DRN-3034005
The complaint
Mr S complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) wrongly cancelled 
his term assurance policy. And then misled him about his policy still being active.
What happened
On 13 August 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint in part. I said I intended to award Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by L&Gs mistake. The events leading to this complaint were set out in detail in my 
provisional decision, so I wont repeat all of that again here. In summary, the background is:
Mr S made an application to L&G through his adviser in July 2018 to set up a new 
Critical Illness Cover policy (CIC). He already had a CIC policy (the first CIC) with 
L&G but wanted to replace this. So, he applied for a new CIC (the second CIC) and 
also another term assurance policy with life cover only called a Relevant Life Plan 
(the RLP). The second CIC and RLP were part of the same application and in the 
application the adviser said Mr S intended to cancel the first CIC.
On 8 October 2018, Mr S accepted the offer in relation to the RLP only. And on 15 
October 2018, L&G cancelled the first CIC in line with its offer. However, when Mr S 
decided not to go ahead with the second CIC, he considered L&G should not have 
cancelled the first CIC. 
Mr S called L&G on 17 October 2018 to discuss its letter dated 9 October 2018 which 
referred to the cancellation of the first CIC. But he was told by the L&G agent that the 
first CIC was still active, when in fact it had been cancelled in line with L&Gs offer. In 
November 2018 Mr S received a refund for the payment he made in respect of the 
first CIC. A year later he discovered he had no CIC.
L&D didnt respond to my provisional decision. In summary, Mr S made the following points.
There were two conditional offer letters  in particular, there was a letter dated 
17 September 2018 from L&G which only referred to the second CIC. He didnt think 
Id considered the letter dated 17 September.
The letter dated 8 October 2018 wasnt received and theres no evidence he saw it or 
received it through the online portal. He made the decision to start the RLP as an 
officer of his business and not in his personal capacity. 
He was misinformed that the first CIC had been replaced by a new policy. Had he 
been correctly informed on the call on 17 October 2018 he wouldve corrected the 
matter. 
He would have been happy to undergo a further medical assessment to take out the 
new policies both in 2018 and 2019.
He thought the refund received in November 2018 was due to the first CIC policy 
being replaced by the new one.
The first CIC was still showing as active on L&G's internal systems for a year.
The reference to a mistake in his advisers email was the mistake made by L&G. 
He believes L&G have repeated mistakes in its communications and its internal 
systems and have not treated him fairly.
The matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above Mr S responded to my provisional decision. However, none of his further 
submissions and evidence, has changed my mind. So for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, Im going to ask L&G to pay Mr S £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. The relevant part of my provisional decision which now forms a 
part of my final decision, is as follows:
I should say at this point that whilst Ive carefully noted all of the representations made by 
Mr S, I wont be addressing every single point hes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the 
issues I think are central to the outcome of his complaint.
During the course of the complaint with our service, Mr S has raised another concern about 
L&Gs underwriting decision which he didnt think was fair. I think its important that L&G are 
given the opportunity to investigate what is a substantive complaint. So this will form the 
subject matter of a separate complaint. Ill only deal with Mr Ss complaint about the 
cancellation of the first CIC and L&Gs subsequent error. It might be worth saying here that 
the policies were recommended by an IFA. L&G didnt advise Mr S about the policies, it just 
responded to the applications the IFA had made on Mr Ss behalf.
I think L&G made it clear in its conditional offer letters to Mr S that it was an underwriting 
condition of the application that the first CIC needed to be cancelled. This was a condition of 
the application rather than the individual policies as such. I can see Mr S was sent two 
letters setting out this condition  one related to the second CIC and the other to the RLP. 
But Mr S says he doesnt recall receiving the RLP offer letter. And given its date (8 October 
2018), which is the same day Mr S called L&G to accept the RLP conditional offer, he 
doesnt think he wouldve seen it before this call. L&G have confirmed that when Mr S 
logged into his online account, he wouldve seen the terms of the offer there. I can see Mr S 
logged into his account shortly before calling L&G to accept its offer. Having listened to the 
call, I can hear Mr S said he wanted to accept the offer for the RLP. I think its likely 
therefore, that Mr S was referring to the RLP offer as available to him online.
In any event, even if Mr S hadnt seen L&Gs offer, the onus was on him to make sure he 
understood what he was accepting before agreeing to the terms. As Ive said L&G werent 
advising Mr S. And the offer was available to him on his online account and he wouldve 
received its offer letter by post within a few days of his acceptance. The first CIC wasnt due 
to be cancelled until 15 October, so this wouldve given him time before the cancellation date 
to call L&G if he didnt like the terms he was being offered.
I can see Mr S did call L&G after the policy had been cancelled  the first CIC was cancelled 
on 15 October 2018 and Mr S called L&G about this on 17 October 2018. This was because 
he received a letter from L&G dated 9 October 2018 which said the following: Thank you for 
your request to replace your policy. I am pleased to tell you that we will cancel the [first] 
policy on the understanding that the last premium paid is the 15 October 2018. It went on to 
say that after this date his replacement policy would provide him with life cover benefit.
Mr S called L&G on 17 October 2018 to question its letter about the cancellation. It was 
during this call that L&G made its mistake telling him the first CIC was still active. Whilst I accept this did deny Mr S the opportunity to let L&G he hadnt intended to cancel the first 
CIC, by this time itd already been cancelled. Further, its unclear whether L&G wouldve 
given Mr S the same terms, as he wouldve had to have gone through its underwriting 
process again. L&G said this wouldve included undertaking further health assessments. So 
its unclear whether Mr S would have received exactly the same terms as hed previously 
received for the first policy.
I know Mr S said he thought the condition  to cancel the first CIC  only related to him 
proceeding with the second CIC, but I can see that both policies were part of the same 
application. And the condition was quoted in both the second CIC and RLP offer letters. L&G 
has said if Mr S had contacted it before the cancellation of the first CIC on 15 October, it 
may have been able to change this underwriting condition. I cant fairly say that L&G did 
anything wrong because Mr S hadnt asked for this to happen.
I accept Mr Ss intention might have been to retain the first CIC and in addition apply for the 
RLP. And I get what Mr S says  that if one of the new policies he applied for didnt go 
ahead then the condition shouldnt have applied at all. But I dont think it was for L&G to 
work this out without further confirmation from Mr S or his IFA.
Im also mindful that during the application process Mr S was being advised by an IFA. In 
relation to the complaint the IFA said: I think the main thrust of the argument should be that 
we accept a mistake was made but we were not given the opportunity to fix it as even up to 
the dates I did the original screenshots we couldnt tell there was a problem. But Mr S and 
his IFA were made aware of the underwriting condition of L&Gs offer. And once Mr S 
decided not to go ahead with the second CIC, he needed to let L&G know about the change 
to his application. I cant fairly hold L&G responsible for a mistake Mr S made, particularly, 
whilst being advised by a suitably qualified IFA.
In any event, after the call with L&G on 9 October, Mr S received more information from L&G 
letting him know hed been refunded the overpayment for the first CIC. I think by this point 
L&G would have known its made a mistake. Mr S says he thought this payment was for 
something else but I can see he was sent a letter dated 26 November 2018, telling him what 
the refund was for. I also note at the time of the refund, as far as Mr S knew hed only one 
other policy with L&G. This was the RLP, with an annual premium of £238, which was 
clearly much less than the refund he received.
On balance, Im not persuaded that L&G should be held responsible for the mistake Mr S 
had initially made whilst he was being advised. And it follows that I dont think it needs to 
reinstate his first CIC and/ or offer him the same terms.
I do, however, think L&Gs error caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. It gave him 
incorrect information. And it took L&G more than a month to refund a significant sum of 
money. Overall, Im not satisfied £100 is sufficient for the errors it made, so Im intending to 
increase the redress to £200. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount under the 
circumstances.
Ill now address Mr Ss response to my provisional decision.
Whilst the letter dated 8 October 2018 was sent to the trustee (Mr Ss business), the letter 
was also copied to Mr S. I know Mr S says the policy was started in the business name 
rather than his own name but this is because the policy was held in trust. As Mr S was an 
officer of the (trustee) business, he would have received the letter in this capacity as well as 
his home address.Further, it was Mr S who accepted the offer made by L&G which he did on 8 October 2018. 
He was sent a letter on this day confirming the conditional offer that had been made and this 
was on his online portal. Even if Mr S didnt see the letter on his online portal he was sent a 
copy of this letter. These are all points made in my provisional decision which Ive set out 
again above. I can reassure Mr S I did take into account the letter dated 17 September 2018 
but I also took into account the events that happened subsequent to this letter. And based 
on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly say that it was L&G who caused the mistake of 
cancelling the first CIC.
I take on board what Mr S says about the chance to correct his error  he was incorrectly 
told that the first CIC was still active during a call on 17 October 2018, when, in fact, it had 
been cancelled on 15 October 2018. This was set out in the L&G letter dated 9 October 
2018. But I addressed this point in my provisional decision above.
Mr S says the adviser he had was a broker not his adviser. Whilst this may well be the 
case, it was the broker that set up the policy for Mr S. And it was Mr S who accepted the 
RLP terms on 8 October 2018. So again, I dont think I can hold L&G responsible for a 
mistake made by Mr S. And I note what Mr S says that when the broker said in his email the 
main thrust of the argument should be that we accept a mistake was made but we were not 
given the opportunity to fix it, the mistake being referred to was the L&G mistake. 
However, as Ive said, on balance, I dont think the cancellation of the first CIC was L&Gs 
mistake. Ive set out in detail my reasons for this above, so I wont repeat them again here.
I appreciate Mr S thought the refund was for something else. But this was something he 
could reasonably have checked with L&G. I also note that Mr S would have been happy to 
take another medical assessment. But this doesnt affect my decision. For the reasons Ive 
outlined above, I dont think I can hold L&G responsible for the cancellation of Mr Ss first 
CIC. 
I agree with Mr S that the mistake L&G made when informing him the first CIC was still 
active, was unfair. And it took a long time to correct. I think, on balance, for L&Gs mistake 
Im still of the view that an award of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused, is fair.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and I order Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to 
pay Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman