DRN-4082403
The complaint
Mr L complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) for declining his 
claim for damage to his shed, following Storm Eunice in early 2022. He wants AA to settle 
his claim for the damaged roof.
What happened
Mr L insured his home with AA. 
In early 2022, Storm Eunice hit in the area of Mr Ls home and his home was damaged. A 
leaded glass area of the porch was smashed, tiles were blown from the main house roof and 
the corrugated roof of a shed was torn off. 
He submitted a claim to AA. AA sent a field surveyor to assess the damage. 
The field surveyor reported that the property was in generally good condition and detailed 
the damage which needed to be settled. This included replacement of the corrugated roof of 
the shed. 
That assessment was sent to AA, and AA subsequently made an offer to cash settle the 
claim as it did not have available contractors to carry out the repairs. The desk-based 
surveyor amended the settlement offer to remove the cost of the shed roof. This was based 
on a desk assessment of the photographs which the desk surveyor said showed that the 
proximate cause of the damage to the shed was not the storm but was wear and tear.
The remainder of the claim has since been settled to Mr Ls satisfaction. 
Mr L was unhappy that AA rejected the shed claim and complained. AA sent him its final 
response in July 2022. It acknowledged that it had failed to properly communicate with Mr L, 
including by not telling him that the shed roof would be removed from the offer, and by not 
responding to communications from him. It offered an apology for this but maintained its 
decision to decline the shed claim.
Mr L remained unhappy and contacted us.
One of our investigators looked into this matter. During their investigation, AA offered Mr L 
£150 compensation for the service failings it had accepted. Our investigator considered that 
the decision to decline was fair and thought that the offer was reasonable to reflect the 
service failings.
Mr L did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I made some enquiries with the parties and issued a provisional decision in March 2023. I 
set out that I did not consider that it was relevant to the decision to decline that the lower 
walls of the shed showed signs of wear and tear as the field surveyor had reported that the 
roof had been blown off by the storm, and the claim only concerned a replacement roof. I 
therefore thought that AA ought to settle the shed roof claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms, plus interest, and increase its offer of compensation to £250 for its service failings. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties, and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr L has responded that he has nothing further to add. AA has not responded within the 
deadlines, but previously indicated that it may seek to apply policy terms to reduce any 
settlement. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no arguments have been made against the reasoning and conclusion of my provisional 
decision, I remain of that view and adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final 
decision. I therefore uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, AA must now settle Mr Ls shed roof claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. If it seeks to reduce the settlement it should provide clear reasons 
for this and, if Mr L is unhappy, he may make a complaint about that decision. 
AA should add interest to any reimbursement to Mr L at a rate of 8% per annum from the 
date when Mr L incurred the expense up until settlement of the claim.
AA should also pay to Mr L £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and 
direct AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
settle Mr Ls shed roof claim in line with the remaining policy terms; 
add interest to any sum reimbursed to Mr L at a rate of 8% per annum; and
pay to Mr L £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman ,Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman