DRN-2005575
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about the difficulties he faced when TSB Bank plc upgraded its IT systems 
in April 2018.
What happened
In April 2018 TSB upgraded its IT systems. Things didn't go to plan, however, and many 
customers experienced difficulties. Mr S has said, in summary, that:
he didn't have access to online banking;
card payments were declined;
he had to wait a long time for calls to be answered, and staff were rude;
the wrong account balance was showing;
money disappeared from his account; 
a refund from a merchant disappeared for several weeks;
a backlog of transactions built up before appearing on his statement.
 
Many of those issues - which I stress I've only summarised here - were typical of the 
difficulties TSB's customers experienced following the IT upgrade. TSB acknowledged that 
Mr S had experienced problems himself and paid him a total of £260 in compensation; that 
figure included compensation for expenses as well as a sum in recognition of the 
inconvenience to which Mr S had been put. Mr S didn't feel that went far enough, however, 
and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She concluded that, whilst TSB hadn't 
treated Mr S entirely fairly, there were some aspects of his complaint that weren't the fault of 
TSB and others which weren't fully evidenced. Overall, she thought TSB should pay Mr S a 
further £100, to which it agreed. Mr S asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator went into some detail in two opinion letters, and I don't believe I need to 
repeat the full background here. I have however considered everything in detail. 
Mr S says he was unable to access online banking, and that this problem continues. I accept 
that he had difficulty accessing his accounts online in and after April 2018. There are 
however a number of reasons why that might have happened later, unconnected with TSB's 
IT problems. TSB doesn't guarantee to be able to provide online services all the time, and 
there are a number of possible explanations for the difficulties Mr S has encountered. I'm 
satisfied however that there has been no major issue with TSB's IT systems since that mentioned above, and so I don't believe I can safely conclude that TSB was responsible for 
any subsequent difficulties Mr S has experienced.
It's also the case that many customers couldn't contact the bank and that it struggled to deal 
with the level of enquiries and complaints it had in the spring and early summer of 2018. Mr 
S says he continued to experience difficulties after that time. I note however that he 
continued to call TSB for some time after it had sent its final response to his complaint. 
Whilst he says however that staff were rude and unhelpful at times, he hasn't been able to 
identify specific occasions, and so we haven't been able to investigate further. 
Mr S says his account showed the wrong balance. Again, this was a known consequence of 
the IT problems which many customers experienced, and I've no reason to think it didn't 
affect Mr S. It seems that pending transactions weren't always deducted when they should 
have been, and it's likely this affected Mr S. In particular, it's likely to have made managing 
his finances and cashflow more difficult.  
Mr S said that money had disappeared from his account, but our investigator wasn't able to 
identify any debits for the amount he said was missing at around the time. Mr S accepts that 
the refund which he was expecting was late because of the merchant, not the bank.
The investigator accepted that it was likely Mr S hadn't been able to use his debit card in the 
days following the IT upgrade. His statements show that its use fell noticeably at that time.  
In addition, Mr S said that the "Control" function on his card had been disabled, although it 
appears this was after the IT problems had been resolved. This is a function to help 
customers control their spending, in part by removing the contactless payment function of 
the card. TSB's records show that Mr S doesn't have a contactless card, but TSB has 
confirmed that payments can still be made using, for example, contactless phone 
technology. I'm satisfied however that the feature was operating as it should have been, 
although it may be that Mr S didn't fully understand how it operated.   
Putting things right
Taking all of this into account, I believe that it's fair that TSB should pay Mr S a further £100 
to resolve his complaint, as it's agreed to do. So that he can enforce that, should he need to 
do so, I'll make a formal award in that sum. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr S's complaint in full, TSB Bank plc should pay him a 
further £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman