DRN-4194830
The complaint
Mr B complains that abrdn Client Management Limited (then trading as Standard Life) failed 
to suitably advise him to apply for Fixed Protection 2012 (FP-2012), unnecessarily exposing 
him to the risk of exceeding the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) and incurring penalty charges.
What happened
Mr B was a customer of Standard Life at the time in question. He had a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) with Standard Life (SL) and received ongoing advice. abrdn Client 
Management Limited is now the regulated entity responding to Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B had stopped working or making contributions to his pensions in early 2011. By 
November 2011 his SL SIPP had a value of £541,379.99. He also had a smaller pension 
fund held elsewhere that was valued at just over £50,000.
Mr B also had a deferred defined benefit (DB) pension scheme. Those benefits related to an 
occupational scheme that Mr B had left in 1991. The benefits hed accrued at the point of 
leaving in 1991 was an annual pension of £6,285. These benefits would be revalued in line 
with indexes up until the normal retirement age of the scheme. 
SL received ongoing adviser charges from Mr B. Mr B had no review of his circumstances 
through 2011 or 2012. Contact was made with Mr B in late 2013 from an adviser with SL, 
who reviewed Mr Bs circumstances. The adviser explained to Mr B that the LTA for 
pensions was being reduced from £1.5 million to £1.25 million. 
SLs adviser did a rough calculation of Mr Bs likely pension value for LTA at age 65. And 
projected that investment growth of 3.4 % would mean Mr B exceeding the lower LTA by age 
65. And also projected that a fund growth of 6.06% would mean Mr B reaching the existing 
LTA by age 65. So suggested that Mr B should apply for the available fixed protection 
(FP-2014) to secure the £1.5 million LTA. Mr B applied for and secured FP-2014.
Mr B later sought advice in reviewing his pensions and became aware that there had 
previously been a higher limit. He complained to SL that it had failed to provide him with any 
service between 2011 and 2012 when the LTA was reduced from £1.8 million to £1.5 million. 
He was, by this stage, aware that prior to 5 April 2012 there had been the opportunity to 
apply for a protected LTA of £1.8 million (FP-2012). He complained that hed had no service 
from SL during that key period and he missed the opportunity to apply for FP-2012 as a 
result of that failing. 
SL accepted that it hadnt provided Mr B with any reviews or service during that period. And 
agreed that it should have. So refunded Mr B the ongoing adviser fees as if theyd never 
been taken out of Mr Bs pension. But didnt think it was responsible for the fact that Mr B 
missed out on FP-2012. It didnt think that the overall value of his pensions in 2011 would 
have meant that it would have been likely that Mr B would go over the LTA at £1.5 million.
Mr B disagreed with SL and brought his complaint to our service. He explained that he was 
likely to be liable to a LTA charge by going over his FP-2012 limit. Our investigator looked 
into what happened and didnt think that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed 
and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman.
In April 2023 (since Mr B made his complaint) the government changed the rules around 
LTA. It means that LTA tax charges for exceeding the LTA will no longer be payable from 
that point. It does mean that the maximum amount of tax free cash that Mr B can take as a 
lump sum remains at 25% of his LTA based on FP-2014. Which is a lower maximum than he 
would have had if hed secured FP-2012.
I issued a provisional decision to both sides to explain what I thought a fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr Bs complaint was.
What I said in my provisional decision
The starting point for me here, is that abrdn have accepted that it failed to provide any 
advisory service for Mr B during the period in question. There was a gap until a new adviser 
established contact in 2013. I have asked abrdn for any client agreement that would indicate 
what level of service Mr B should have expected. But abrdn has not been able to provide 
anything from that time. Mr B seems to have expected some kind of annual review in 
exchange for the ongoing fee he was paying. And abrdn havent contested that. So, on 
balance, I think its more likely than not that abrdn should have made contact with Mr B to 
provide some kind of review of his financial planning.
Ive then had to consider what the outcome of that may have been if it had taken place. 
Mr B held a SIPP with SL. So I think that retirement planning would certainly have been a 
feature of any review. As it was in 2013 when Mr B was contacted. Relevant at the time 
would have been the reduction in the LTA happening in April 2012. I think that an adviser 
would have been aware of that. So I think that its likely that an adviser would have looked at 
the likelihood of Mr Bs pensions putting him above the reducing LTA of £1.5 million.
Mr Bs position in 2011 wasnt very different than in 2013. Hed made no further pension 
contributions since 2010. Hed sold his business and had effectively retired. So I dont think 
that he would have been concerned about not being able to make further contributions to his 
pensions. His SL SIPP would have been valued over £500,000. He had a further pension 
valued at over £50,000. And he had the same deferred benefits in his DB scheme that were 
considered in 2013.
In its answer to Mr Bs complaint abrdn gave Mr Bs DB benefits a value around £250,000. I 
think that was based on the transfer value. But this pension didnt have a fund value. It had 
preserved benefits in the form of a guaranteed salary. For a LTA purpose, its value would be 
the annual income multiplied by 20. 
The adviser that contacted Mr B in 2013 identified that. He did an approximate calculation of 
what income the DB scheme would provide at age 65, based on the likely revaluations. He 
calculated that by 2022 the scheme would provide a revalued income of £25,357. When 
multiplied by 20 that would use up over £500,000 of any LTA that Mr B had. This 
approximation used an assumption for RPI/CPI of 3% for part of the revaluation. But I think 
that was reasonable, and I dont think it would have been calculated any differently in 2011. 
So, if SL had reviewed Mr Bs position in 2011, it ought to have identified that Mr Bs defined 
contribution pension schemes had less than £1 million of available LTA if the DB benefits 
would be taken as they were intended at age 65. And given that there had been no 
indication of transferring those deferred benefits at that time, I think this is what SL ought to 
have been considering. The DC benefits would have been pushing on towards £600,000 in 2011 (by November 2011 they were around £590,000). With around 11 years to age 65, 
Mr Bs DC pensions only needed annual fund growth of about 5% a year to start to go over 
the £1.5 million LTA. 
For similar reasons that the adviser highlighted fixed protection to Mr B in 2013, I think that 
SL ought to have recommended FP-2012 in 2011. He was already in a position where he 
was likely to end up close to or over the reducing limit by age 65. With no guarantee that he 
would even take those benefits at that age, if he left the pension fund invested it would likely 
continue to grow and put him increasingly over that LTA limit until age 75 - when the final 
benefit crystallisation event would occur. There would have been no compelling reason to 
advise Mr B not to consider FP-2012. It would have been clear he didnt need or intend to 
work or contribute to a pension any further.
So I agree with Mr B that, but for SLs oversight, he would more likely than not have applied 
for and obtained FP-2012. But I dont think that the impact on him is the same that he 
expected when he raised his complaint.
Mr B was understandably concerned about having to pay tax penalties for exceeding his 
LTA that could otherwise have been avoided. But, I cant say that is likely to be the case 
now. The rules around this have changed. I appreciate that those rules could change again 
in the future. But I have to consider the impact based on the situation that is present now. 
Mr B will not currently incur any excess charge if he goes over the LTA.
Additionally, Mr B transferred his deferred DB benefits in October 2021 to his SL SIPP. And, 
at the time his complaint was brought to us, he appeared to be under his FP-2014 LTA.
There is a potential impact on Mr B in that he will still be limited to a maximum tax free lump 
sum of £375,000 (25% of FP-2014). In order to understand the impact on Mr B, Ive 
considered what his intentions are with his pension. He has indicated to us that he is 
financially secure without needing to significantly access the pension benefits. He has 
explained that he intends to leave his pension, as much as is possible, as death benefits as 
this will not be subject to inheritance tax. 
Given Mr Bs testimony, Im inclined to conclude that, its more likely than not, Mr B will not 
take his maximum available tax free cash from his pension. So I cannot reasonably conclude 
he will suffer any adverse consequence as a result of not having FP-2012. 
Abrdn initially offered Mr B £250 for the distress and inconvenience its mistake caused. And 
increased the offer to £500 later. But this figure wont have considered the impact on Mr B of 
having a lower LTA than he could have had because abrdn have never accepted this failing. 
Ive considered the overall impact on Mr B. He hasnt yet taken his benefits or suffered any 
financial loss at this stage. But has had to spend more time trying to resolve this issue than 
he should have done. Overall I think that £500 is a fair amount of compensation for this level 
of inconvenience. If abrdn have not yet paid Mr B this figure, Im inclined to direct them to do 
so.  
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B responded to explain why he disagreed with the outcome Id provisionally reached. He 
explained that he was impacted at the point he brought his complaint to abrdn and then to 
our service. And it is only the delay in getting his complaint resolved that has meant that the 
tax implications have changed. He thinks it is fairer to consider the potential impact at the 
point he complained. He doesnt think its fair that abrdn can simply refund charges and then 
not be responsible for mistakes it made. He wants an indemnity from abrdn against the 
possibility that he might incur tax should the HMRC rules change again. Abrdn responded to explain that it paid Mr B the £500 compensation that I thought it should 
on 13 April 2022. So sought clarification as to whether I was upholding Mr Bs complaint or 
not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs frustration so I know hell be disappointed with my final decision. But for 
the same reasons that I set out in my provisional decision  set out above  I dont think that 
there is anything for abrdn to put right.
To be clear, I set out in my provisional decision why I agreed that abrdn let Mr B down in the 
service it provided. It left him with a lower level of fixed protection than might otherwise have 
been the case. It is also worth pointing out that I dont know what Mr B would have been 
recommended by abrdn in 2011. But I still think that, on a balance of probabilities, he would 
have been recommended to apply for FP-2012. My reasons for coming to that finding are 
exactly as I set out in my provisional decision. I have seen no argument or evidence to 
change my mind.
Mr B hasnt suffered any financial loss in this case. This case was always about the potential 
loss he might suffer in the future. It was why he brought his complaint. I can understand his 
frustration. Had I been considering his complaint prior to the change in the rules around LTA, 
he would have expected me to have considered his potential loss based on the rules at that 
time. Which wouldnt have been unreasonable. Its unlikely that it would have been fair for 
me to say that the LTA rules may change in a way that would remove the impact on him. 
But I am not giving my decision based on what was fair and reasonable when he first raised 
his complaint. Im giving my decision based on what is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances now. And the way things stand currently, Mr B doesnt face potential LTA 
penalties for exceeding the fixed protection he has. So I dont think it is reasonable to ask 
abrdn to do anything further where I can no longer, on balance of probabilities, see a future 
loss.
I identified potential harm for Mr B due to a reduction in the maximum tax free cash he will 
be able to take from his pension. If it was likely that he would take his maximum tax free 
cash, then this would cause him to pay more income tax on his pension than would have 
been the case. But Mr B has been quite clear with us that he doesnt intend to take his 
maximum tax free cash. I thank Mr B for his honesty. I have weighed up that it isnt possible 
to know exactly what may happen in the future. But he expresses a wish to leave his 
pension as it sits outside of his estate for the purposes of inheritance tax. And has told us his 
financial position is such that he wont need to draw significantly on this pension. So I think, 
on balance, its more likely than not that he wont take his maximum tax free cash from this 
pension. So wont be adversely affected in this by his lower fixed protection either.
Im sorry that Mr B thinks abrdn is being allowed to make its mistake without consequences. 
But I dont agree. Its just that, in this case, there are no longer likely to be the consequences 
that Mr B quite reasonably anticipated before. But Ive considered other impacts. I explained 
in my provisional decision that I recognised there would have been a level of inconvenience 
in having to pursue this matter. And for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision I still 
think that £500 was a fair level of compensation for that. 
Both parties have now confirmed to me that abrdn has already paid this compensatory 
amount to Mr B. It means that, whilse I agree that abrdn were at fault, I dont think there is anything further they have to do to put things right. So I am not direction abrdn to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
abrdn Client Management Limited do not need to do anything further to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman