DRN-3623606
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed his account and believes 
that he was discriminated against.
What happened
Mr C held two accounts with NatWest and after an internal review, NatWest told Mr C that 
they were closing his accounts and gave him 14 days notice of the closure. 
Mr C complained to NatWest about the closure and sought an explanation about why the 
accounts were closed. NatWest investigated the complaint but wouldnt re-open the 
accounts or provide any additional explanation about the closure. 
Mr C then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Both parties were asked for 
information about the complaint. Mr C explained that he thought the account closure was 
unfair and that he was also the victim of discrimination due to his nationality. NatWest 
provided information about the account closure and denied it had anything to do with Mr Cs 
nationality. 
Our investigator thought that it was reasonable for NatWest to close Mr Cs account and 
didnt uphold his complaint. Mr Cs complaint was closed, and he later asked for it to be 
reopened and a further review conducted. 
Mr C commented that hed been told by a bank employee that there were additional hurdles 
related to his account and Mr C thought that he was being discriminated against. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Race  which includes nationality and ethnic or national origins is a protected characteristic 
within the Equality Act 2010. Alleged breaches of the Act are a matter for the courts to 
determine  and so I cannot make a finding on whether or not NatWest has acted unlawfully 
in discriminating against Mr C on the basis of a protected characteristic. But I can consider 
whether Mr C was treated in a fair and reasonable manner and whether I think he was 
treated differently to other customers.
NatWest received information about activity on Mr Cs account that they thought suspicious. 
After conducting a review of his accounts, NatWest decided they no longer wished to provide 
banking services to Mr C. 
Both Mr C and NatWest can choose to end their relationship with each other. The process is 
laid out in the terms and conditions that Mr C agreed to when he opened the account. In this 
case, NatWest issued a 14-day closure notice, which is permitted within the terms of the 
account if NatWest reasonably suspect that the account is used or planned to be used for an 
illegal purpose. From the evidence Ive examined, I think NatWests decision to immediately 
end their relationship with Mr C was a reasonable one and wasnt impacted by his 
nationality. 
I asked Mr C about the comments he made following a visit to a branch, but he didnt 
respond. Ive not seen any evidence that NatWest made their decision based on anything 
other than the activity on Mr Cs accounts. And its consistent with how theyve responded to 
similar concerns elsewhere, so Im satisfied that theyve not treated Mr C any differently than 
they would any other customer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman