DRN-1686647
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX). 
What happened
Mr S took out a credit card in 1989. Three years later after the credit card was agreed and 
Mr S had been using it, Mr S completed and returned an application by post for a PPI policy.
The policy cost 0.64p per £100 of the balance on Mr Ss credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the credit card for up to 12 
months per claim if Mr S was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought because the policy 
was sold so long after the credit account was opened Mr S wouldve understood the policy 
was optional and that it provided a useful benefit. 
Mr S disagreed. He says it wasnt made clear the policy was optional and he didnt need it.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr Ss 
complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
AMEX had to make it clear to Mr S he had a choice in taking the policy and that he chose to 
take it. Ive seen a copy of the PPI application form Mr S completed and returned for PPI. 
The application was for PPI only so I dont think Mr S wouldve mistook it for something else. 
And as the policy was sold 3 years after Mr Ss credit card account was opened and used I 
think he wouldve understood he didnt have to take the PPI to have the credit card. So I 
think Mr S completed the application form because he wanted the cover  I havent seen 
anything to suggest otherwise. 
Because Mr S filled in a application form to take the PPI I dont think AMEX advised Mr S to 
take PPI. What this means is that AMEX didnt recommend PPI to Mr S, it just gave him 
information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so he could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if AMEX did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if AMEX 
did give all the information Mr S needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what we know about 
AMEX policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay he could 
use to make his repayments if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness. But the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and covered him if he lost his job. So I 
cant see how knowing this information wouldve put him off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr S and he could cancel 
the policy if he no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr S on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to him.
Which means AMEX doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But AMEX has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
When the policy was sold, AMEX expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about 
that. Because AMEX didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, AMEX has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American Express Services Europe Limited does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But American Express Services Europe Limited does have to pay back to Mr S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman