DRN-2560610
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) has unfairly declined 
her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In November 2018 Mrs E purchased return flights for her husband and daughter to travel in 
October and November 2019. The total cost of the flights were £1,199.96 and Mrs E paid for 
this using her Halifax credit card. In September 2019 the supplier went into administration 
and Mrs E purchased alternative flights at an increased cost of £1,441.16. 
Mrs E has raised a chargeback request and has since received a refund for the cost of the 
initial flights. She also made section 75 claim for the consequential loss of £241.20 which 
shes incurred by purchasing replacement flights. 
Halifax considered Mrs Es section 75 claim and declined it because it said that the travel 
providers terms didnt provide cover for consequential loss. Halifax therefore argued that its 
liability didnt extend to consequential loss. Unhappy with this response, Mrs E brought her 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Es complaint and also didnt uphold it, but for 
different reasons to Halifax. She felt there wasnt a sufficient debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
link, which is needed for a section 75 claim, as Mrs E wasnt travelling or detailed on the 
booking confirmation. Therefore the contract for supplying the service (the flights) wasnt 
between Mrs E and the supplier, breaking the DCS chain. Mrs E disagreed with the 
investigator as she didnt think this was the correct interpretation. She explained that a 
customer is the person who pays for the goods and services and her name wasnt on the 
paperwork as she wasnt travelling on this occasion. As an agreement couldnt be reached 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so Ive reached the 
same outcome as the investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs E 
and Ive explained below why Ive reached this outcome. Ive noted Mrs E has raised some 
example scenarios to illustrate why she thinks her claim should be successful. However, I 
need to look at the specific circumstances of this case to determine whether or not I think 
Halifax acted fairly in declining her claim.
Section 75 makes the provider of credit (Halifax in this case) equally liable where there is a
case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of the goods or services. For 
section 75 to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met, one of which is a valid 
a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement between the parties. 
Mrs E purchased the flights at a cost of £1,199.96 using her credit card and was responsible 
for repaying the amount owed to her credit card provider, so she is the debtor. Mrs E used 
her Halifax credit card to purchase the flights, making Halifax the creditor and the travel 
company supplying the flights was the supplier. From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
even if the supplier didnt take the payment directly, the payment was made to an associate 
of the supplier in accordance with s187 CCA. However, I think the DCS chain was broken for 
another reason. Ill explain this further in more detail below. 
Ive looked at a copy of the Booking-Confirmation (Internet) / INVOICE (booking 
confirmation) for the flights in question. I note that it is addressed to Mrs Es daughter and, 
as explained above, the flights were for Mrs Es husband and daughter. Mrs E wasnt 
travelling on this occasion. In addition, on the second page it details booked by [daughters 
name] on 27.11.18 through internet. 
I have reviewed a copy of the Booking Conditions - copy of which were provided by Mrs E. 
This document details that the booking conditions form part of the contract with the supplier.  
On page 2 under the heading 3. Making a Booking and Paying, there is The Lead Name & 
Their Responsibilities section. This details that the Lead Name is the person. who 
completes the online booking. It then goes on to outline that The Lead Name is the person 
who is entering into the contract with us. 
As Ive explained, looking at the booking confirmation, I can see that its in the name of 
Mrs Es daughter. It is therefore Mrs Es daughter who is the Lead Name under the 
Booking Conditions and has contracted with the supplier. 
The booking confirmation also makes reference to the conditions of carriage, so Ive gone on 
to consider these terms. Within the definitions it defines you and your as:
all persons (or any of them as applicable) named on the Booking (including the 
lead passenger (as defined below in 'Making A Booking') and anyone who is added 
or substituted at a later stage).
Under the section Making A Booking it details the lead passenger as the first named party 
who agrees on behalf of all parties travelling under this booking to agree to the terms and 
conditions. Mrs Es daughter was the first named party and Mrs Es husband is listed on the 
booking. 
So having considered all the information available, I think its clear that Mrs E wasnt party to 
the contract with the supplier. Mrs E didnt arrange the travel and nor was she travelling on 
this occasion. And whilst I appreciate she facilitated the payment, based on the terms and 
conditions Ive reviewed, this isnt sufficient to make her a contracting party. Due to this she 
doesnt have the required Debtor-Credit-Supplier relationship needed for a s75 CCA claim 
and so I dont think Halifax acted unfairly when it declined her claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint against Bank of Scotland 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
