DRN-2900250
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Ltd (Aviva) declined to pay the claim made on his 
plumbing and drainage policy for flooding when his garden was flooded during heavy rain in 
February 2020.
Mr P also complains that that he was unable to get through to Aviva to register a claim in 
March 2020
What happened
In February 2020, during a period of very heavy rain, flooding happened in Mr Ps garden. 
He tried unsuccessfully to contact Aviva to start a claim on the 29 and 30 March 2020. As he 
was unsuccessful in contacting Aviva, he eventually found his own engineers as he needed 
the drain unblocking and putting right.
The engineers instructed by Mr P started the drain work and Mr P contacted a claims advisor 
at Aviva on 16 June to state that he wished to make a claim. A £30 policy excess was paid.
Whilst the engineers instructed by Mr P were on site, an engineer sent by Aviva also 
attended.
After the Aviva engineer had attended its records indicate that the claim was complete.
On 22 June 2020 Mr P contacted Aviva via the online chat service and again said that he 
wanted to make a claim. Aviva could not help on chat so called him back and he again went 
through the background and he also registered a complaint. He was told to obtain the 
invoices for the work and submit them to customer relations and they would be considered. 
On 30 June 2020 Aviva responded to Mr Ps complaint and apologised for the unacceptable 
call wait times when Mr P had initially tried to start his claim in March 2020. They said that 
this was likely due to Covid. No mention of the ongoing claim was made.
Mr P submitted the invoices as requested. Aviva asked for more detail to be provided by the 
engineer, they also said that in the invoice it mentioned the soakaway and that was not 
covered in the policy. New invoices with further detail were submitted. Aviva still did not 
accept them and continued to ask for more detailed information from the engineer as to what 
work was completed for the drainage issues and what caused them to be required.
In November 2020 Aviva told Mr P they wouldnt pay his claim without further information. Mr 
P feels that Aviva are using delaying tactics as they are reluctant to pay a bona fide claim 
and has brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator said Aviva should reimburse Mr P with the total repair costs incurred in 
getting the problem sorted out, plus 8% simple interest on these costs.
As Aviva were unhappy with the investigators view the case has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr P first contacted Aviva to start the claim, this was the start of a list of 
misunderstandings and mix-ups by both Mr P and Aviva. These have made a simple claim 
very complicated and stressful for Mr P. 
Aviva logged the claim and instructed an engineer to attend the property. When what Mr P 
wanted, and thought he had done, was to claim for the drainage work that his engineers had 
already started on. 
When the Aviva engineer attended at Mr Ps address, Mr P thought he was there to inspect 
the work that his engineers were undertaking.
This misunderstanding is detailed in the engineers notes which say
Arrived on site to report of flooding at rear of property, builders are putting new drain system 
in. Traced issue to blocked rainwater line, cleared and CCTV of system showed pipework 
run to a main soak away. System is running and a new overflow outlet has been fitted, now 
all ok. Customer happy.  Not sure what the customer needs. Can we call customer to 
discuss please. Signed off re COVID
It must be taken in to consideration that June 2020 when this happened was during the first 
lockdown period for Covid. During this time the whole of the country were having to comply 
with recently introduced social distancing regulations and so I can understand why there 
was only brief contact and a lack of clarity and between Mr P and the engineer.
After their engineers attendance, Aviva understood the claim to be completed. Mr P did not 
see it as complete as he thought that the engineer had checked the work being undertaken 
and had agreed that it was in order, so he continued to contact Aviva to progress the claim 
payment. 
I think Aviva ought to have realised there was a misunderstanding through the records held 
and listened to Mr P more clearly when he continued to call to progress the claim. However, 
I also accept that during these months Aviva will have had to make huge and unprecedented 
changes to their ways of working due to Covid restrictions so I can also understand why this 
may have been missed. 
There is no dispute that there was a blockage and a flood in Mr Ps garden and that his 
policy would cover for the insurer to put this right.
If Mr P had managed to get through to Aviva to start his claim when he called on the 29 and 
30 March, then it is highly likely that none of this confusion would have happened because 
he would not have instructed his own engineers in advance.
I think it is fair to accept that Mr Ps engineers completed slightly more work than would 
usually be covered by the policy. I do not think that this was done deliberately. Mr P found 
his own engineers to carry out the drainage work required in his garden to stop the flooding, 
which he assumed was covered in his policy and the engineers had carried out the work Mr 
P had requested.
I dont think the invoices submitted for payment for labour and for materials were excessive. The misunderstandings have caused this claim to go on much longer than would be 
expected it should be concluded as soon as possible to avoid any further stress to Mr P, an 
elderly gentleman who is in poor health. 
Therefore, though for slightly different reasons, I come to the same conclusion as our 
investigator and uphold Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Ltd to reimburse Mr P the total repair cost. This comprises the cost 
of labour and all materials evidenced in the invoices submitted. Aviva must also pay Mr P 
8% simple interest on these costs from the date when the cost was incurred, until the date 
reimbursement is made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman