DRN-2935961
Complaint
Mr and Mrs C says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly added overdraft charges to their 
overdraft when they were in financial difficulty.
Background
Mr and Mrs C have also complained about a number of personal loans. But those complaints 
have been looked at separately and do not form part of this final decision. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Cs case. She didnt think Lloyds had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Lloyds charged Mr and Mrs C over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs C if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr and Mrs C was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there 
were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr and Mrs C fairly and reasonably. In other words, 
Ive considered whether there were periods where Lloyds continued charging Mr and Mrs C 
even though it knew they were in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this. Having 
thought about everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. 
Ive also looked through Mr and Mrs Cs statements throughout the period concerned I cant 
see that Lloyds ought to have been aware that Mr and Mrs C might have been struggling.  
Mr and Mrs C may argue their regular use of their overdraft was in itself an indication that 
they were struggling. But in the initial stages the overdraft was for a low amount. And there 
was nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs C couldnt exist the facility. The facility did go on to be 
increased substantially. And Mr and Mrs C did go on to use it. But the account did then 
receive and influx of funds in order to bring it into credit. Ive seen what Mr and Mrs C have 
said about the source of these funds. But I dont think that Lloyds would have known this.
I also think its fair to say that there were significant periods when Mr and Mrs Cs account 
balance was in credit. And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements 
over Mr and Mrs C expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions being made from the account too. 
So I cant reasonably say that it was the overdraft charges that were responsible for           
Mr and Mrs Cs overdrawn balance here. And the amount being credited to Mr and Mrs Cs 
account each month didnt indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of them seeing a 
credit balance at any stage either.
Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said about telling Lloyds they were in 
financial difficulty. I dont know exactly what contact Mr and Mrs C had with Lloyds. But Ive 
had a look at the record of the contact Mr and Mrs C has had with Lloyds over the years. 
And I cant see any indication of there being a discussion about Mr and Mrs C being in 
financial difficulty. Mr and Mrs C did get in contact with Lloyds in August 2015 to request a 
limit increase and this was approved. But there isnt anything to suggest any difficulty         
Mr and Mrs C may have been experiencing was discussed at this stage. 
I accept that its possible these records wont necessarily reflect every conversation            
Mr and Mrs C had with Lloyds. However, without anything else from Mr and Mrs C to 
corroborate them having had the discussions theyve referred to and what Ive already said 
about the conduct of their account, theres simply not enough here for me to make a finding 
that Mr and Mrs C did tell Lloyds they were struggling prior to their complaints. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr and Mrs C 
werent experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves, or in the contact notes, which ought to have alerted Lloyds to potential financial 
difficulty. So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to 
proceed with the interest, fees and charges it added. And I dont think Lloyds unfairly 
charged Mr and Mrs C in circumstances where it ought to have realised that they may have 
been experiencing financial difficulty.
Having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs C  especially as its 
taken some time for their case to reach this stage. But I hope that theyll understand the 
reasons for my decision and at least feel that their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman