DRN-4241869
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way Skyfire Insurance Company Limited has handled a claim 
under his motor insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Skyfire, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which 
it takes responsibility. 
What happened
In January 2022, Mr Js catalytic converter was stolen from his car whilst it was 
parked outside his home during the night. Damage was caused to the front grill, and 
it was undriveable.
Mr J made a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
Skyfire accepted the claim but due to industry-wide challenges arising as a result of 
Covid-19 and Brexit, they were unable to get the car booked in with any of its 
approved garages. 
Mr J asked for a courtesy car as the delay in getting his car repaired was causing him 
inconvenience. He explained to Skyfire that hes a key worker and having access to a 
vehicle is a job requirement for home visits and meetings. In addition, he has a young 
family and was relying on taxis to do the school run.
Skyfire declined this request on the basis that the policy only covers a courtesy car 
whilst Mr Js car is in for repairs, which wasnt the case here.
Mr J continuously called Skyfire for updates and to stress the urgency of his situation. 
And in February 2022, almost a month later, Skyfire agreed to provide a courtesy car 
and to instruct a garage that Mr J had found to carry out the repairs.
After seven days of having the courtesy car, Mr J was contacted by the hire company 
to say his rental period had expired. As his car hadnt been repaired yet, he had to 
call Skyfire to get this extended twice  which required multiple phone calls. 
Mr Js garage did replace the catalytic converter, but they said Skyfire hadnt 
authorised the repair of the front grill. So Mr J had to contact Skyfire again to ask for 
it to cover the claim in full  again, requiring multiple calls.
Mr J complains about the delay in approving a courtesy car, during which time he 
was incurring considerable costs in taxis. He also had to call around garages to find 
his own repairer.
Mr J also complains that hes had to continuously chase Skyfire and every time he 
calls, hes passed to different departments, sat on hold for long periods of time, and 
has been cut off without call backs. This has caused a great deal of distress 
considering the number of times hes had to call to get his claim progressed.  
Skyfire didnt uphold the complaint, but it agreed to waive the additional policy excess 
of £250 which is applicable when a policyholder chooses not to use an authorised 
repairer. It also offered £140 compensation for not offering a courtesy car sooner. 
Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our Service. But our 
Investigator was satisfied Skyfire had done enough to put things right. As Mr J didnt 
agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide and in June I issued the following 
provisional decision. 
My provisional decision
Im not persuaded Skyfire has done enough to put things right here. Ill explain my key 
reasons why below:
I accept that the delay in getting Mr Js car repaired by one of its approved repairers 
was outside of Skyfires control. But if Skyfire was unable to fulfil its obligations under 
the insurance policy, then Id expect it to look into alternative options to minimise the 
impact to its policyholders. 
Mr Js car was undriveable and hed explained to Skyfire the impact this was having 
on him as a key worker and a parent. So whilst his policy only provides a courtesy 
car whilst [his] car is being repaired, Skyfire wasnt able to get the car repaired. So I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Skyfire to have provided a courtesy car in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint to minimise the impact on Mr J.
Whilst Skyfire did eventually agree to provide a courtesy car, this was almost a 
month later. And even then, it only approved the courtesy car for short periods at a 
time leaving Mr J in a position of liaising between the hire company and Skyfire to get 
the necessary extensions. 
Skyfire did agree to Mr J using a garage of his own choice. But again, this was 
almost a month later. Given that Skyfire hadnt been able to source a garage itself, it 
shouldve allowed Mr J freedom of choice sooner to minimise the delays in getting his 
car back on the road. And even after it did so, it didnt approve the full repair leaving 
Mr J in a position of liaising between the garage and Skyfire to get all the damage 
repaired.
Skyfire has agreed to waive the policys additional excess of £250 which is applicable 
when a policyholder choose[s] not to use the insurers approved repairer. But its 
important to remember that Mr J didnt choose not to use an approved garage, he 
was happy to do so  rather, Skyfire was unable to source one within a reasonable 
amount of time. So Im not persuaded it was fair to apply this excess in the first place, 
so the gesture of waiving it as compensation to put things right seems inadequate 
here. 
Skyfire has also offered £140 for its failure to provide a courtesy car sooner. Mr J 
says this doesnt cover the amount hes spent on taxis, but I havent been provided 
with any details of what this amounts to along with his receipts. 
Putting things right
I dont intend to award Mr Js full cost of taxis as Im mindful he had an obligation to mitigate his losses, for example by using public transport where possible or seeking 
lifts from family and friends if hes able to. Instead, Im inclined to award £10 per day 
for his loss of use of a vehicle. I calculate it to be 18 days between Mr J making his 
claim to receiving a courtesy car, so this would be £180 for his loss of use. 
Im also satisfied that Mr J has experienced a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience as a result of Skyfires handling of his claim and Im inclined to award 
him compensation of £300 for whats gone wrong.
For clarity, Im also directing Skyfire to waive the additional excess of £250, in line 
with its offer to do so, on the basis that Im not satisfied it fairly applies here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr J nor Skyfire responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Skyfire Insurance 
Company Limited to: 
pay compensation and loss of use totalling £480
waive the policys additional excess of £250
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman