DRN-1814632
The complaint
Mr R complains that MBNA Limited didnt tell him about important changes to his credit card 
account, de-activated his card without sending a replacement, and didnt credit his account 
with the flying miles he had earned.
What happened
Mr R explains that he took out a Virgin Flying Miles credit card in 2009. Mr R was able to 
earn Virgin flying miles on his card spending which he could exchange towards flights. In 
addition, in October, providing he had spent over £10,000 on the credit card during the 
preceding year, he was awarded a voucher to use towards upgrading a flight. Mr R says that 
in October 2018 his cards stopped working and no replacements had been sent to him. He 
says that his voucher was not applied to his flying miles account even though he had 
reached the qualifying spend in October 2018. He said that the flying miles he earned on his 
card spend for the months of August, September and October 2018 were also missing from 
his flying miles account.
Mr R said that he discovered after his cards stopped working that MBNA had changed the 
terms and conditions of his account and the partnership with Virgin had ended. Mr R 
complained to MBNA in January 2019 about these issues. MBNA said that it had sent Mr R 
letters and emails about the proposed changes to the terms of the account in May and July 
2018. MBNA said that it sent Mr R a replacement card on 21 July 2018 and sent him text 
messages to remind him that his old cards would stop working at the end of September. 
MBNA explained that the card changed to a cashback card and so the last date for credit 
card purchases to count towards flying club miles was 6 July 2018. All purchases from 7 July 
2018 would earn cashback instead. MBNA said that Mr R hadnt spent enough on the card 
by the cut off date to qualify for the flight upgrade voucher.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that MBNA had sent Mr R information about the change of terms in May 2018 and 
in an email of 16 July. She was satisfied that MBNA sent Mr R a replacement card in July 
and it had paid Mr R the correct cashback instead of flying miles in accordance with the new 
terms and conditions. She didnt think that MBNA had done anything wrong.
Mr R didnt agree and replied to say in summary that he had never received the new terms 
and conditions and the letter produced by MBNA did not have his address on so there is no 
proof it was sent. Mr R says that he never received the new card and it has never been 
activated or used. Mr R points to his annual October statement which shows he spent over 
£10,000 in the preceding year and so he should be entitled to his upgrade voucher and 
qualifying miles as he has never agreed to any replacement terms and conditions. Mr R 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to say at the outset that I understand why Mr R is frustrated at the situation with 
his credit card. I can appreciate that he was expecting things to continue as they had done, 
and no doubt planned his credit card spend accordingly. I cant force MBNA to re-introduce 
promotions or partnerships and as this service is not the regulator, I cant say they are not 
able to change the terms and conditions in the way that they have as long as Mr R has been 
given reasonable notice.
Mr R agrees he was sent a letter in May 2018 explaining that the partnership between 
MBNA and Virgin was coming to an end. The letter did not explain what the changes would 
be or how that would impact on his flying miles. The letter set out that further information 
would be forthcoming both from MBNA and Virgin which would explain the changes.
MBNA says that it sent Mr R further information on 15 May 2018. It has produced a generic 
copy of this letter which was sent to all cardholders. A record that such a mailing was sent to 
Mr R is saved on MBNAs electronic system and it has provided a screen shot as evidence 
that this was sent to Mr R. I dont doubt that Mr R has never received it. Equally, Ive no 
reason to think it wasnt sent and it seems more likely that it was lost in the post.
This mail shot explained that Mr Rs card was changing to a cashback card and he wouldnt 
be able to earn any flying club miles after 6 July 2018. It also said that his existing cards 
would work until 11 October 2018. It explained that a replacement card would be sent to him 
in July 2018.I can appreciate why Mr R is unhappy, because this was very important 
information and it may have had an impact on his spending pattern if he had known he only 
had until July to reach the qualifying spend. However, as I said above, I cant say that MBNA 
didnt send this information to Mr R and so I cant say that it did anything wrong.
MBNA says it sent an email to Mr R on 16 July 2018 which he also did not receive. MBNA 
has provided confirmation that this email was to welcome Mr R to the new account. By this 
point the last date for flying club miles had passed. MBNA says it sent Mr R a new card on 
21 July 2018. Again, I dont doubt Mr R when he says he didnt receive it. MBNA has 
produced a copy of the letter enclosing the card with Mr Rs correct address and 
confirmation from its system that the card was sent with the letter. In these circumstances I 
cant say that MBNA has done anything wrong. It looks likely that the card was sent. It may 
be that there was a problem with Mr Rs post during this period.
Ive looked at Mr Rs total spend up to the point that the flying miles ended, and he is a few 
hundred pounds short of the £10,000 total spend required for the upgrade voucher. No miles 
have been earned on Mr Rs account after the 6 July and so I cant say they are missing or 
that MBNA hasnt properly transferred them. MBNA has paid Mr Rs cashback into his 
account for all purchases from 7 July 2018. So, I cant agree that miles are missing or that 
MBNA has done anything wrong.
Mr Rs cards stopped working on 11 October in line with the new terms of the account. Mr R 
hasnt yet had a replacement for the lost card that was sent on 21 July 2018. It seems that 
Mr R initially told MBNA not to send a replacement card whilst his complaint was ongoing. 
He has since written two letters requesting a replacement card, but he says these have not 
been actioned. Our investigator asked if MBNA would issue a new card but it said that Mr R 
would need to telephone to request one so it can undertake security checks. 
I cant say that MBNA has made an error here. It would be reasonable for it not to issue a 
replacement card until Mr R asked for one. I can see that he made a request in writing in 
May 2020 and a further request in writing in July 2020. I dont know why his card has not 
been issued because this isnt a complaint that has been raised with MBNA. I cant say that MBNA has delayed in issuing Mr R with a new card between July 2018 and January 2019 as 
it wasnt aware it was lost. Then Mr R complained but didnt ask for a replacement card and 
he later asked that a card was not re-issued until after his complaint was resolved. In these 
circumstances I cant say that MBNA has delayed. Mr R might want to raise the issue of a 
replacement card with MBNA following his letters of May and July 2020, but this would be a 
separate complaint and not something it would be fair for me to deal with as part of this 
complaint.
As I said at the outset, I do understand why Mr R is aggrieved and why he has brought this 
complaint. I dont doubt that he hasnt received the communications that would have made 
this matter clearer or his replacement card. But I cant say that MBNA didnt send these to 
Mr R and so I cant ask it to do anything else.  
    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
4 December 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman