DRN-3935319
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy with the charges applied to her overdraft and the lack of help Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) offered her regarding this and changing the date 
her direct debits were paid. 
What happened
Due to a change in employment the date Ms N received her salary changed, so it came in 
after regular direct debits were paid from her account. This resulted in Ms N spending a few 
days in her arranged overdraft at the end of every month and incurring overdraft charges.    
Ms N contacted Halifax about this. Halifax offered Ms N a one off refund of interest and fees 
for a month to allow Ms N time to rearrange her direct debits and advised Ms N that she 
would need to contact the direct debit beneficiaries directly to change the date as the 
instruction needed to come from her. Halifax also offered for Ms N to speak to its financial 
assistance team. Ms N rejected this offer as she said she wasnt in financial difficulty and 
was concerned about the effect this may have on her credit file.
Ms N brought her complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ns 
concerns but as they didnt think there were any signs of financial difficulty, they thought the 
help and support offered was fair and in-line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ms N disagreed. She says she hasnt received the reprieve she seeks from the overdraft and 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ns complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that part of Ms Ns complaint is regarding the charges applied to her account. Ms N 
wanted Halifax to waive fees to allow her salary to catch up with her direct debits. Before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Halifax charged for the use of its overdraft facility are fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Halifax various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms N if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Ns account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms N was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Ms N fairly and 
reasonably. Ms N says Halifax failed to provide support when a change in job meant her 
salary was paid after her direct debits came out resulting in her account to becoming 
overdrawn and charges being applied.  
Ive listened to phone recordings between Ms N and Halifax when Ms N contacted Halifax 
about this. During the call the Halifax adviser offers Ms N a refund of interest and fees for a 
month to allow her to rearrange the dates her direct debits came out of her account. But in 
order to do this Halifax would need to put a note on her file that is shared across the banking 
group and credit reference agencies. Halifax also offered for Ms N to speak to its financial 
assistance team. But Ms N didnt want to speak to the financial assistance team as she said 
she wasnt in financial difficulty and was concerned about how a note being placed on her 
file may affect her credit record. So she declined the refund. 
During another call Ms N once again declined the offer of speaking to the financial 
assistance team and a stop on fees for a month, as she didnt believe one months respite 
was enough for all the trouble shed gone through.
Ive also had a careful look at Ms Ns bank statements which I dont think show any signs of 
financial difficulty. I can see from the statements that from around the end of October 2021 
Ms Ns account would become overdrawn at the end of the month when her direct debits 
came out. This would last for a few days and then her account would once again have a 
credit balance once her salary came in. This is in-line with what Ms N has told us, so I think it 
is fair to say Ms Ns account becoming overdrawn wasnt due to financial difficulties but 
rather management of her payments going out. And as such I cant say that Halifax has 
done anything wrong when applying the charges it did for the use of the overdraft facility.
And Halifax provided support by advising Ms N what she needed to do to change the date 
her direct debits came out of her account and offered to support her to do this by refunding 
interest and fees for a month despite there being no evidence of financial difficulty and Ms N 
confirming the same. 
So overall I dont think that Halifax did treat Ms N unfairly or unreasonably which means I do 
not uphold her complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not to uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman