DRN-2882587
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the way in which Ageas Insurance Limited recorded the contact 
he made with it about his fence being damaged in a storm under his home insurance policy.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
When Mr N rang Ageas to report the damage to his fence, he was told that storm cover for 
fences was explicitly excluded under his policy.
At a later date, he applied for home insurance with a different provider (which I will refer to 
as insurer Y). Mr N says that insurer Y asked him a question about whether he had made a 
claim in the last 5 years, and he answered no. Insurer Y offered Mr N a quote for cover.
However, insurer Y later checked the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), which is a 
shared record of insurance claims and incidents. It found a CUE record relating to the storm 
damage to Mr Ns fence, and this resulted in insurer Ys quote increasing in price. Mr N 
complained to Ageas because he said it should not have logged the fence damage as a 
record on CUE.
Ageas responded that it had acted fairly by recording the call made by Mr N to it about the 
fence damage as an enquiry. Unhappy with Ageas stance, Mr N brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Her view was that Ageas had acted 
reasonably by recording what it had about the fence damage on CUE.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators findings. He asked whether the call recording from 
when he spoke to Ageas about the fence had been provided. Mr N confirmed that he had 
been in contact with the organisation which manages the CUE database (the Motor Insurers 
Bureau, or MIB) to question what duties insurers have to record information. He has asked a 
number of questions of this service regarding the purpose of CUE.
With regard to the recording on CUE of the fence damage, Mr N has asked whether Ageas 
has breached MIB guidelines. He has raised questions about how enquiries made by 
policyholders to insurers about the scope of cover under a policy should be recorded, and 
the implications to policyholders if they dont make their insurer aware of incidents. Mr N has 
explained that he does not believe it was reasonable of Ageas to construe his enquiry about 
his fence as a potential claim, or that there was an intent from him to claim. He says that this 
discourages policyholders from making enquiries with their insurers about policy wording. Mr 
N has asked that this service review the criteria that insurers have to record enquiries as 
potential claims.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At outset I should confirm that Mr N has brought a separate complaint to this service about 
the actions of insurer Y when offering him insurance cover. This complaint relates only to the 
actions of Ageas.
As explained above, CUE is a database that records insurance related incidents. When Mr N 
contacted Ageas about his fence, Ageas placed details about this on CUE. Mr N has stated 
that Ageas registered his enquiry as a storm damage claim, and that this is incorrect, false 
and fictitious. In considering this complaint, I need to determine whether Ageas acted fairly 
in its recording of the enquiry made by Mr N.
Ageas has forwarded me a recording of the telephone conversation it had with Mr N about 
the fence damage. During the call, Mr N asked the Ageas representative to confirm the 
policy excess. Mr N asked the representative if damage caused by storm to a fence is 
covered, and she responded that it wasnt. He then asked if Ageas could provide details of 
any contractors who could repair the fence, and it was confirmed to him that Ageas wasnt 
able to do this when it related to private works.
Having listened to this call, my view is that Mr N had contacted Ageas to find out if the 
damage to the fence was covered under his policy. The record that Ageas added to CUE in 
the claim status field was that there was no cover. This was because, as the Ageas 
representative explained to Mr N during the telephone call, damage to fences was excluded 
under the storm cover provided by the policy.
Mr N has explained that he has been in contact with MIB asking it about its members duties 
when recording data on CUE. It is not the role of this service to tell insurers how exactly they 
should use CUE, nor do we have a role in determining what the purpose of CUE is. What I 
am able to consider is whether an insurer has acted fairly when recording data on CUE, and 
that is what I have done in this case. Taking into account the details of the telephone call 
made by Mr N, my view is that Ageas acted fairly in recording his enquiry in the way that it 
did.
Mr N has confirmed that after insurer Y informed him that the price of his insurance quote 
would increase due to the CUE record it had found relating to the fence damage, he 
managed to obtain replacement cover from another insurer which did not take into account 
the fence damage record on CUE.
I should explain that how different insurers choose to treat the information they find on CUE 
is a decision for each individual insurer, and is not something that Ageas would have any 
control over. The key issue for me to assess is whether Ageas has acted fairly in the way its 
recorded the contact it had from Mr N about the fence damage. Although I appreciate Mr N 
will be disappointed with my findings, my current view is that Ageas did act fairly in this 
regard.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ageas confirmed that it did not have any further information that it wished to submit.
Mr N did not provide a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the findings I outlined in my provisional decision, and taking into account the 
responses to that decision, I do not consider that I have reason to alter the outcome I 
reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman