DRN-4184947
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the decision by AWP P&C SA to turn down part of their travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L hold travel insurance cover with AWP. Whilst abroad, their return flight to the 
UK on 21 December was cancelled by the airline. They travelled to another airport by taxi to 
catch a flight there on 22 December. That second flight was then also cancelled by the 
airline. Mr and Mrs L and their children returned to the UK on 23 December.
Mr and Mrs L made a claim for travel delay benefit. AWP said Mr and Mrs L couldnt claim 
travel delay benefit for the first flight because they hadnt travelled to the departure point, as 
required by the policy terms. It paid £200 settlement for the second flight. Unhappy with this, 
Mr and Mrs L brought a complaint to this Service. They also thought the policy wording was 
unclear.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought AWP had turned 
down the claim for the first flight fairly, and in line with the policy terms (which he thought 
were clear). 
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
The benefit provided below is intended to provide compensation if you are delayed at your 
point of departure and is only applicable if you have travelled there and checked-in. If you 
have not travelled to your departure point you will not be covered, even if you have checked-
in online.
It then sets out the insured events covered under travel delay. I havent considered whether 
Mr and Mrs Ls claim would be covered under these, as its not in dispute they didnt travel to 
the airport and so werent delayed at their point of departure. I agree with our investigator 
that the point of departure would be the airport and not the general area, as the flight departs 
from the airport. 
Whilst I sympathise with the position in which Mr and Mrs L found themselves, AWP has 
chosen to only cover travel delay where a consumer has arrived at the airport and checked 
in. Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality, and it was up to AWP what cover it 
decided to offer under the policy. 
I therefore find it was reasonable for AWP to refuse to pay travel delay benefit for the first 
cancelled flight. 
Mr and Mrs L want AWP to pay benefit towards the cost of their taxi. Under the policy theres 
the potential for AWP to pay reasonable additional travel costs if alternative arrangements 
are needed to reach their destination. 
Mr and Mrs L did need to get a taxi because alternative arrangements were needed for them 
to reach their destination. However, that was because the first flight was cancelled, and this 
part of their claim isnt covered, for the above reason. So I dont require AWP to pay towards 
their taxi cost. 
Mr and Mrs L have also raised some concerns about the policy wording. 
The policy says:
We will pay you:
1.£30 as a benefit for the first complete 12 hours of your delay, then £20 (up to a maximum 
of £250) as a benefit for every complete 12 hours of delay after that, if you continue to travel 
on your trip; or
2. Up to £5,000 for either:
a. The refund your share of the cost of your trip
b. Your reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for taxis and hire cars) and 
accommodation expensesif you have to make alternative arrangements to reach 
your destination.
Mr and Mrs L think the use of the word or makes the wording unclear. However, I think its 
clear from the wording that AWP will pay benefit under section one or two, but not both. 
Mr and Mrs L have also made the point that the travel delay benefit is paid per person, but 
the reasonable additional travel cost limit of £200 for taxis applies to a claim as a whole. 
They say if a distinction is being made between the two, then this should be clearly stated. 
Travel delay benefit is paid per person because a delay would impact each of the insured. 
The insured persons would presumably be travelling together when getting a taxi and would 
therefore incur the cost together. However, if, for example, they had bought train tickets - 
then the cost of the tickets could be claimed by each insured. I dont find the policy wording 
to be unclear. 
In any event, as I have explained above, I dont require AWP to pay towards Mr and Mrs Ls 
taxi costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman