DRN-1660370
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly provided him 
with unaffordable open-ended credit facilities.
Background
Drafty provided Mr H with a total of seven open-ended credit facilities. These were running 
account facilities where a consumer could request funds up, to their credit limit, which would 
then be deposited into their bank account. The first one was provided in September 2016 
and the last one was provided in August 2018. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint. She thought that Drafty shouldnt have 
provided the second to seventh facilities. Drafty disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
look at the case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im upholding Mr Hs 
complaint in part. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
The relevant regulations in place at the time Mr H was given his running account 
credit facilities 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Drafty gave Mr H these facilities 
when it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant 
regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation as well as the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-
end agreement (like Mr Hs facilities), to make payments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in 
mind when considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be 
repaid.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Hs Drafty facility. As explained, Mr H was given what were open-ended 
credit facilities. So overall I think that this means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide 
enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr H would be able to both service and then 
repay his facilities within a reasonable period of time.
Why I think Drafty needed to do more before agreeing to give Mr H his second and 
subsequent facilities
Mr H made 22 drawdowns on his first facility. And I can see that he asked for the second 
one a mere matter of days after settling his first one. The credit limit on this facility was also 
for substantially more than the amount of the first one. In these circumstances, I think that 
Drafty needed to get a more thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial circumstances 
before agreeing to provide him with his second facility. And as Drafty didn't do this, I don't 
think that it did enough to establish whether Mr H would be able to sustainably repay these 
facilities.
What I think Drafty wouldve most likely found out if it had asked further questions  
Even though I think that Drafty shouldve asked Mr H further questions before giving the 
second to seventh facilities this doesnt, on its own, mean Mr Hs complaint should be 
upheld. After all if further checks wouldve simply shown Drafty that Mr H would most likely 
have been able to repay these facilities within a reasonable period of time (and so there was 
no reason why Drafty shouldnt have lent to Mr H), then further enquiries wouldnt have 
made a difference. This is because Mr H wont have lost out because of Draftys failure to 
carry out proportionate checks and thered be no reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
But if further checks would most likely have shown Mr H was unlikely to have been able to 
repay these facilities then Drafty wouldve seen that it shouldnt have lent to him. And this 
would mean that Mr H lost out because of Draftys failure to carry out proportionate checks. 
So thered be grounds to uphold Mr Hs complaint.   
As proportionate checks werent carried out I cant know what exactly they would have 
shown. But Mr H has provided us with more information on his financial circumstances. So 
Ive been able to get a picture of what they were were like. Of course I accept this isnt perfect as different checks show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr H has provided it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any extra checks Drafty mightve carried out. But what Mr H has 
provided is the best indication I have of his financial circumstances at the time of the 
applications. And in the absence of anything else I think its perfectly reasonable to rely on it. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mr Hs provided and Ive also thought about 
everything both parties have said. Having done so, I dont think Mr H had the capacity to 
take on these facilities. As our adjudicator explained, it is clear that Mr H was using the funds 
he was drawing down do gamble. 
Ive seen what Drafty has said about gambling being a form of discretionary expenditure. But 
the question Im thinking about here is whether proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have shown Drafty that Mr H would be able to sustainably repay his loan. And, in this 
case, proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mr Hs ability to make his 
payments was going to come down to, in large part, his success as a gambler. 
In these circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely 
than not have been able to make his payments without borrowing further or experiencing 
difficulty. And, in these circumstances, Im satisfied that the second to seventh running 
account credit facilities were unsustainable for Mr H.  
Overall I think not only did Drafty fail to carry out proportionate checks before giving Mr H his 
second to seventh running account facilities, but that Mr H also lost out as a result of this.
What Drafty should do to put things right
To put things right for Mr H, Drafty should:
refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Hs second to sixth running account 
facilities; and
 
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
 
all interest and charges applied to the seventh facility should be removed from the 
outset. Any payments Mr H has made should be deducted from the new starting 
amount  in order words, Mr H should pay back no more than the amount he was 
lent;
 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of the 
second to sixth facilities having been given to him. If the outstanding balance on the 
seventh facility is cleared once all adjustments have been made then any adverse 
information recorded as a result of the seventh facility should also be removed from 
Mr Hs credit file. 
 
I understand that Mr H has an outstanding balance remaining on his seventh Drafty facility. If 
after having removed all the interest and charges applied from the outset, an outstanding 
balance remains, Drafty can deduct this from the amount it now needs to pay Mr H. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman