DRN-3410204
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) replaced the back 
of their phone with an inferior product after they sent it in for repair. Mr and Mrs N had 
gadget insurance for two phones through their joint bank account but, for ease, Ill refer only 
to Mr N and the insurer, AGI.
What happened
Mr N sent his phone for repair under the terms of his mobile phone insurance with AGI. 
When it was returned to him, he saw that the phones back was a different colour. Mr N 
complained to AGI.
AGI said it had repaired the phone in line with the terms of the policy which allowed it to use 
readily available parts which may not be exactly the same. Mr N was unhappy with the 
response because he paid extra for the colour of the phone and he was still making payment 
under the contract for something he no longer had.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because he found that AGI had repaired the 
phone in line with the terms of the policy.
Mr N didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise hell be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain.
Theres no dispute that AGI returned Mr Ns phone with a different coloured back. So, my 
role is to decide whether AGI treated Mr N fairly and in line with the policy terms.
Looking at the policy, it provides for repairs, using readily available parts or refurbished 
products which may contain parts, which are of similar or equivalent specification, and which 
may include unbranded parts. So, Im satisfied that replacing the damaged back with a 
readily available one was within the terms of the policy.
I understand Mr N paid more to have a particular colour and AGI replaced the back with a 
standard black. Looking again at the policy, it says, We will attempt to replace your phone 
with one of the same colour but we cant guarantee to do this or replace any limited or 
special edition mobile phones.
Again, Im satisfied AGI repaired the phone in line with the policy.
I accept that Mr N is dissatisfied with AGIs response to his claim because his phone is still in 
contract and hes paying for aesthetic features which are no longer part of the phone. 
However, the policy provides cover so that Mr N will have a working phone and, as stated in 
the terms and conditions, it is not for AGI to provide an exact replacement or repair.
After bringing his complaint to our service, AGI offered Mr N a goodwill payment to try to 
bring the matter to a close. Mr N declined because it didnt cover the additional cost for the 
choice of colour. AGI withdrew its offer. Having considered the evidence, I cant see that AGI 
has done anything wrong, so I see no reason to ask AGI to make that payment.
In summary, Im satisfied that AGI repaired Mr Ns phone in line with the terms of the policy 
and theres no evidence that it treated him unfairly. I wont be asking AGI to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman