DRN-4146486
The complaint
Mr M is bringing a complaint on behalf of company N. He is unhappy that TIDE PLATFORM 
LTD decided not to refund N, following payments made as a result of an Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all in 
great detail here. But in summary, its not in dispute that N was contacted by a fraudster, 
who had intercepted an exchange of emails it had with a property agent, regarding a 
property rental. The fraudster tricked N into making the following payments, totalling £6,000, 
that it thought were towards the rental, but that were actually made to an account controlled 
by the fraudster;
8 February 2022 @ 16:38 £2,250
8 February 2022 @ 16:58 £3,750
N realised it had been scammed, when the genuine property agent confirmed it hadnt 
received the money.
N reported the matter to Tide, but it issued its final response letter in May 2022, not 
upholding the complaint. In summary it didnt feel it was liable for Ns loss. But, it said it was 
disappointed with the level of service it provided and offered £50 for this. Tide did contact the 
beneficiary bank (the bank to which the payments were made) but was only able to recover 
£1.65.
Unhappy with Tides response, N brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, 
while he didnt think Tide had done anything wrong in allowing the first payment to be 
progressed, he thought at the point N made the second payment, it was out of character for 
the account. In view of this he thought this ought to have caused Tide some concern and 
that it ought to have intervened. It was our Investigators view that had Tide intervened and 
spoken to N before allowing this second payment to be made, the scam would have come to 
light and N wouldnt have lost the money from the second payment. Our Investigator thought 
Tide should refund the amount lost from the second payment, along with interest.
Tide didnt accept our Investigators view. In summary it didnt think it was relevant that the 
payments were out of character, as N had confirmed it had made the payments, it added 
that N had transferred money into the account shortly before making the payments, so there 
was no reason why it would consider that suspicious.
It added that even if it had contacted N, N would have told it the payments were legitimate, 
so it questioned how Tide would have known there was an issue. Tide added that N had 
called the intended recipients between the two payments, but questioned why it hadnt called 
the intended recipients when it had received an email to say the bank details had changed.
 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for the following 
reasons:
- It isnt in dispute that N authorised the disputed payments made to the scammer from 
its Tide account. As such the starting position is that Tide ought to follow the 
instructions given by its customer in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
- However, Tide ought to be aware of this services approach in expecting it to have 
been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify 
unusual transactions or other indicators that their customer is at risk of fraud; and in 
some situations, make additional checks before processing payments or to decline 
them altogether to protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud or 
scams.
- Having looked at the operation of this account, in the months leading up to the scam, 
I agree with our Investigators opinion that at the point N was making the second 
payment, there was enough going on to have alerted a responsible, regulated, 
payment provider such as Tide, that the payments being made were unusual and 
uncharacteristic. I say that because the payments were significantly higher than any 
other payments, there were large value payments in quick succession, and these 
were to a new payee. While its finely balanced, Im satisfied an intervention wasnt 
necessary for the first payment. But given the second transaction was for a higher 
amount, so soon after another high payment and to a recently set up payee, I think 
there was, by now, enough going on that Tide ought to have intervened before 
allowing this second payment to have been processed.
- Im persuaded that if Tide had done so and asked N the purpose of the payment, it 
would have confirmed that it was relating to the rental of a property. As professionals 
in these matters, Tide ought reasonably to have been aware of the common tactics 
used regarding property purchases and rentals, so I reasonably would have expected 
it to have asked N how it had received the payment details and followed this by 
asking if N had confirmed the payment details with the seller over the phone.
- Tide could have explained the prevalence of email intercept scams with N and how 
they worked (including details such as genuine emails being intercepted and new 
bank details being provided). Tide could have asked N to contact the property agent 
in person or on a trusted number to confirm that the payment details were correct.  
Im satisfied N would have likely taken this step to protect themselves, given the 
presence here of the hallmarks of this particular type of scam. Im persuaded a 
meaningful warning and suggestion such as this from Tide would have likely exposed 
the scam and prevented Ns loss, from the point it was making this second payment.
Ive also considered whether N should be held partly responsible for its loss, but I dont 
consider it should. The emails from the fraudster were almost identical to genuine emails 
received and N was expecting to make a payment, so it wouldnt have come as a surprise. 
This was a clever and sophisticated scam, and Im not persuaded N can be said to have acted negligently by believing the payment details came from the genuine agent it was in  
contact with. I also dont think the fact that N called the agent in between the payments is 
enough to say it should carry any responsibility. At the time it didnt realise it was falling 
victim to a sophisticated scam and wasnt aware that fraudsters could intercept genuine 
chains of emails, so I dont think I can fairly or reasonably have expected it to have 
questioned the change in bank details.
Ive considered whether Tide did all it could to try and recover the money N lost. From the 
evidence Ive seen the majority of funds were removed from the beneficiary bank account 
soon after they had been received, so I dont think Tide has missed an opportunity to recover 
more funds than it did.
Finally, Ive considered the compensation that Tide paid N for the delays and incorrect 
information that it was provided. I recognise N has fallen victim to a cruel and callous scam. 
But I think its important to highlight that the vast majority of the inconvenience caused by 
this event was caused by the fraudster. And it isnt reasonable to hold Tide liable for that. 
With this in mind I think the £50 Tide has already paid is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above TIDE PLATFORM LTD should now;
- refund N £3,750 (being the loss of the second payment).
- pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date of the transactions to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Ns complaint against TIDE 
PLATFORM LTD in part and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N and N to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman