DRN-3791071
The complaint
Mr M complains through his representative that Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans irresponsibly provided him with high cost loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Mr M with the following loans
Date of 
loanAmount Term Monthly 
InstalmentDate repaid
Loan 1 30/08/19 £1,500 18 months £160.03 09/09/20
Loan 2 05/10/20 £1,000 18 months £91.88 08/06/21
Loan 3 08/06/21 £2,750 30 months £172 Still ongoing
He repaid loan 1 early, and repaid the balance on loan 2 with loan 3. But he has an ongoing 
issue with loan 3 and has requested to pay a reduced payment, which so far Everyday has 
refused, after carrying out a reassessment of his income and expenditure. He complained 
through his representative of irresponsible lending.
Everyday said it carried out all necessary verification checks. These included obtaining and 
reviewing Mr Ms credit record, reviewing one months payslip and the most recent two 
months statements for his bank account. It used ONS (Office for National Statistics) data to 
assess his outgoings. It assessed that the loans were affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our adjudicator said that in respect of 
loans 1 and 2, as Mr Ms credit commitments represented a significant proportion of his 
income the loan repayments were likely to be unsustainable. So he didnt think Everyday 
had made fair lending decisions in respect of those two loans. In respect of loan 3 he said 
Everyday had made a fair lending decision.
Everyday didnt agree. It specifically pointed out that the adjudicator had used 5% of the 
balances on credit cards and a mail order accounts as the payments Mr M should be paying. 
It said that its lending processes had been approved by the FCA. It pointed out that the 
figure only represented 5% of the balance as at the time of the loan. This balance would 
reduce each month so the credit card and mail order accounts would be repaid in a 
reasonable time with a 3% payment.
Mr Ms representative didnt comment on the adjudicators view.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1 
This loan was said to be for debt consolidation. As all of the credit commitments dont appear on the credit report, I have used Everydays figures. This shows a monthly liability for 
those commitments of £1,510. However that figure includes £513 maintenance, which would 
be regarded as living expenses rather than as credit commitments. So, deducting that figure 
and the amount saved by loan consolidation (£252) gives a figure of £745 a month. Adding 
in the loan payment gives £905. As a proportion of his assessed monthly income of £2,177 
this is around 41%. I think that is a high figure and an indication that the loan was 
unaffordable.
Mr Ms monthly disposable income after paying the new loan instalment was assessed by 
Everyday as being around £312. However its not just the pounds and pence figure that we 
look at  Mr M was spending a lot each month on credit commitments.  Ive noted also that 
Everyday used ONS data and assessed his living expenses at £446. As a proportion of his 
income that seems rather low. I havent seen any evidence as to why that figure is so low, 
considering it was assessed at nearly £300 more than that for loan 2 and more than £500 
more for loan 3. 
I think that this loan was unlikely to be affordable so I dont think Everyday made a fair 
lending decision.
loan 2 
This loan was for the purchase of an engagement ring, with no debt consolidation, loan 1 
having already been paid off. According to the credit report Mr M now had an hire purchase 
(HP) loan, an ordinary loan, two payday loans, and two credit cards and a mail order 
account. 
Our adjudicator calculated the payments for the credit cards and the mail order account at 
5% which reflects our general approach. Everyday argues that this should be 3%. However, 
some companies may well require more than that, and the purpose of it is to allow for the 
cards/accounts to be repaid within a reasonable time as at the time of the application, rather 
than allowing the absolute minimum payments to enable consumers to take out unaffordable 
credit. Everyday points out that the figure will only be the balance at the time of issuing the 
loan, so will go down over time and be proportionate to enable such balances to be paid off 
within a reasonable time.
However the overall difference in the monthly payments for the two credit cards and one 
loan account would in this case be around £13, so would make no difference in my view to 
the affordability of this loan.
Using the figures in the credit report which do tally with Everydays figures, I calculate that 
Mr M would have been spending around £835 on credit commitments (including the new 
loan payments. This was about 32% of his monthly income (£2,621) and again high and I 
have to take account of the fact that he was likely to have used a loan of some sort to repay 
loan 1, and that his monthly income had increased..
His monthly disposable income was calculated at around £310. Again its not just pounds 
and pence affordability that we take into account but whether Mr M could sustain the 
payments for this loan. Although he had paid off some credit commitments he had also taken 
on further credit cards and payday loans since loan 1. I think on balance this loan was 
unlikely to be affordable, so I dont think Everyday made a fair lending decision.
loan 3
Our adjudicators view is that this loan was fairly lent. As neither Mr M nor his representative 
have commented on this I assume they have accepted it. And in looking at the figures I think the adjudicator made a fair assessment of this loan. So I dont uphold the complaint in 
respect of this loan.
Putting things right
Mr M has had the capital payment in respect of loans 1 and 2 so its fair that he should 
repay this. So far as those two loans are concerned, I think Everyday should refund all 
interest and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans. 
Treat any payments made by Mr M as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mr M has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
If theres still an outstanding balance on loan 3, Everyday may use any repayment 
in respect of loans 1 and 2 to reduce that balance.
Remove any adverse information about loans 1 and 2 from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
Your text here
My final decision
I uphold the complaint concerning loans 1 and 2 and require Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
I dont uphold the complaint concerning loan 3
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman