DRN-2662165
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Mortgages 1 Limited commenced possession 
proceedings in respect of their mortgage. They also complained about charges added to 
their mortgage account.
What happened
I made a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 January 2021 and I asked the parties 
to let me have their comments and any additional evidence. A copy of my provisional 
decision is set out, below:
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out their mortgage with Mortgages 1 in March 2006. In April 2019 Mortgages 1 
told its solicitors to commence possession proceedings because the mortgage payments were in 
arrears. A court hearing took place in June 2019 when the proceedings were adjourned.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Mortgages 1 that it shouldnt have commenced possession 
proceedings. They said the payments werent in arrears and they were waiting for a decision from 
the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) on an application theyd made for Support for 
Mortgage Interest (SMI). They also complained about charges Mortgages 1 had added to their 
mortgage account.
Mortgages 1 didnt agree it shouldnt have commenced possession proceedings. It said there were 
arrears on the account and there was no indication the claim for SMI was still open. It offered to 
refund £150 to the mortgage account in respect of three Arrears Monitoring Charges (AMCs) it 
had charged.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with Mortgages 1s response to their complaint and they referred it to 
this service.
One of our investigators recommended the complaint should be upheld. They didnt think 
Mortgages 1 should have commenced possession proceedings because it hadnt done enough to 
see if the application for SMI was still in progress. They recommended Mortgages 1 should remove 
all solicitors costs from the mortgage account and pay Mr and Mrs G £400 compensation.
Mortgages 1 didnt agree with the recommendation. It said it had made numerous attempts to 
contact Mr and Mrs G but it hadnt received any update in respect of the SMI application.
Another of our investigators then looked at the complaint. They thought Mr and Mrs G hadnt 
engaged with Mortgages 1 and it wasnt reasonable to expect Mortgages 1 to wait indefinitely for 
the outcome of the SMI application. However, they noted that Mortgages 1 had capitalised 
overpayments Mr and Mrs G had made to the mortgage and they didnt think the payments would 
have been in arrears if this hadnt been done. They recommended Mortgages 1 should remove the 
solicitors costs added to the account and pay Mr and Mrs G compensation of £200.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept our investigators recommendation.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of the mortgage Mr and Mrs G should have made monthly 
payments of interest to Mortgages 1. They have never done this. Instead, they have made 
irregular payments of varying amounts. During the period the mortgage has been in existence 
there have been times when Mr and Mrs G have paid more than the total amount they needed to 
pay and times when the payments have been in arrears.
Between September 2016 and March 2017 Mortgages 1 made some Arrears Adjustments to the 
account. Mr and Mrs G think that if these adjustments hadnt been made the account wouldnt 
have been in arrears in April 2019 when the possession proceedings were commenced. For the 
reasons Ive given, below, I dont think this is correct.
The total amount of the arrears adjustments was £4,450.84. Mortgages 1 has provided an arrears 
history that shows arrears as at 1 April 2019 of £5974.81 after the adjustments had been made. But 
the Statement of Case in the possession proceedings says that the arrears on 1 April 2019 were 
£1810.79. It appears that the arrears figure in the Statement of Case didnt include the adjustments 
and I think Mortgages 1 would have been able to say the payments were in arrears when the 
proceedings were commenced even if it hadnt made the adjustments.
Although I think the mortgage payments were in arrears in April 2019 this doesnt 
necessarily mean that Mortgages 1 was reasonably entitled to commence possession 
proceedings.
Mortgage lenders are required to follow a protocol before commencing possession 
proceedings. The protocol says:
A lender must not consider starting a possession claim for mortgage arrears while the 
borrower can demonstrate to the lender that the borrower hassubmitted a claim to the 
[DWP] for [SMI].
The solicitors acting for Mortgages 1 in the possession proceedings completed a checklist for 
the court saying there was no evidence Mr and Mrs G had made a claim for SMI.
In its response to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, Mortgages 1 said the application for SMI was made in 
October 2017. I havent seen any evidence to support this. Mr G had told Mortgages 1 the 
application had been made in March 2018. But he was concerned a decision hadnt been made and 
hed contacted his MP about it.
Mortgages 1 went on to say in its response that its solicitors had advised it that the DWP was 
taking between 36 and 38 weeks to process claims. It said that Mr and Mrs Gs claim was 
taking a lot longer than the usual timeframe and there was no indication it was still open. It 
said it took the correct action and was not in contravention of the protocol.
On the basis of the information currently available to me I am far from convinced that it was 
reasonable for Mortgages 1 to commence possession proceedings when it did and I think it didnt 
comply with the protocol. Mortgages 1 knew Mr and Mrs G had applied for SMI. It had completed a 
form in connection with the application the DWP sent to it in November 2018. If Mortgages 1 was 
entitled to rely on the advice from its solicitors, and I havent seen any evidence of that advice, I 
think it should have calculated the 38 week period from when it returned the form to the DWP in 
which case it wouldnt have expired until August 2019. The DWP started paying SMI to Mortgages 
1 in June 2019 and the payments were back-dated.
Ive considered Mortgages 1s claim that it tried to contact Mr and Mrs G to establish what was 
happening with regard to the application for SMI before it commenced proceedings. It said it 
arranged for a home visit to be made in January 2019 and Mr and Mrs G declined to complete a 
fact find interview.Its apparent from the evidence Ive seen that Mr and Mrs G were unhappy about the way 
Mortgages 1 was handling their mortgage. Their MP had written to Mortgages 1 on their behalf and 
they had appointed a legal representative. I think Mortgages 1 could have contacted 
Mr and Mrs Gs legal adviser or the DWP to find out what was happening with the application for 
SMI. I havent seen any evidence to show that it did this. Im not persuaded that it was reasonable 
for Mortgages 1 to arrange a home visit in all the circumstances.
Given the above, I currently think Mortgages 1 shouldnt have commenced possession 
proceedings against Mr and Mrs G in April 2019 and it didnt comply with the protocol. It should 
therefore refund all the solicitors costs it has charged to the mortgage account. It should also 
refund a fee of £60 it charged in January 2019 for the home visit, a fee of £37 it charged in March 
2019 for Letter of Formal Notice and a solicitors instruction fee of £40 it charged in April 2019.
I think Mortgages 1 were right to offer to refund AMCs amounting to £150 and it should now do 
this if it hasnt already been done.
If Mortgages 1 has charged interest on any of the fees etc Ive said should be refunded, that 
should also be refunded.
I think Mr and Mrs G would have been very worried about the possession proceedings which could 
have resulted in them losing their home. They had to attend the court hearing when the 
proceedings were adjourned. I think they should be compensated for the unnecessary trouble and 
upset they were caused.
Its possible Mr and Mrs G could have avoided the issue of possession proceedings if theyd 
engaged more with Mortgages 1 and Ive taken this into account. But its clear to me on the 
evidence Ive seen so far that the proceedings shouldnt have been commenced and I would 
require Mortgages 1 to pay Mr and Mrs G £500 to compensate them for the trouble and upset the 
proceedings caused them.
My provisional decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties my provisional 
decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Mortgages 1 Limited to:
1Refund all solicitors costs charged to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage account in respect of the 
possession proceedings commenced in April 2019;
2Refund fees totalling £137;
3Refund AMCs totalling £150, unless this has already been done;
4Refund any interest charged on the above amounts; and
5Pay Mr and Mrs G £500
Mr and Mrs G said there wasnt anything else they could give me. Mortgages 1 accepted my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In view of the parties responses to my provisional decision, I dont intend to change it.
Putting things right
Mortgages 1 should refund charges its applied to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage and pay them £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Mortgages 1 
Limited to:
1 Refund all solicitors costs charged to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage account in respect 
of the possession proceedings commenced in April 2019;
2 Refund fees totalling £137;
3 Refund AMCs totalling £150, unless this has already been done;
4 Refund any interest charged on the above amounts; and
5 Pay Mr and Mrs G £500
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Charles Bacon
Ombudsman