DRN-4310223
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Mr E and Mrs S took out, eventually jointly, with 
Santander UK Plc. The mortgage was originally applied for, an offered, in Mr Es sole name, 
but then withdrawn due to Mrs S holding a charge over the mortgaged property. Theyre 
unhappy that the process took so long, resulting in significant trouble and upset, plus the 
loss of income opportunities.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr E and Mrs S and Santander; 
theyve been set out in correspondence between both parties. Im also aware that the 
investigator issued a response to the complaint which has been shared with all parties, and 
so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. Instead, Ill provide a brief summary of the 
key points, in my own words and rounding the figures, and then focus on the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The purpose of the mortgage was to raise money on a property owned by Mr E to fund the 
acquisition of a buy-to-let property. The application was initially in Mr Es sole name, and in 
the original offer, issued in June 2021, Mrs S was noted as being an over-17 occupant who 
was not party to the mortgage. Accordingly, a condition of the offer required her to sign a 
Deed of Consent. 
Subsequently, it was established that Mrs S held a charge over the property as protection for 
a financial contribution she had made when Mr E bought it. Initially, Santander proposed to 
deal with this by Mrs S executing a Deed of Postponement, but later still it changed its mind 
and withdrew the offer altogether. The issue was eventually resolved by Mr E and Mrs S re-
-applying jointly, and the mortgage eventually completed in May 2022.
Mr E and Mrs S complained; taking into account lost opportunities, they estimated the loss 
arising from the delays and errors to be in the region of £66-80,000. Santander offered £300 
compensation for their time, trouble and upset, but didnt accept responsibility for the 
financial impact of withdrawing the offer. 
Our investigator considered the settlement offer should be increased to £500. Given the 
original mortgage offer specified there should be no other charge on the property without 
Santanders consent, he didnt think it should pay the loss claim. Mr E and Mrs S have asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator, and for much the same 
reasons. Clearly Santander should have realised much sooner than it did that the existence 
of Mrs S charge, once it had come to light, meant a mortgage in Mr Es sole name was 
outside its lending policy. Proposing a Deed of Postponement was a dead end that only 
wasted more time. 
Here, the only solution was to withdraw the offer in Mr Es name and start again with a joint 
application. Santander could have saved Mr E and Mrs S a great deal of time and trouble if it 
had pointed them in that direction immediately. Thats where the compensation of £300 
comes into play, and in all the circumstances, I think its a fair sum.
But I agree with our investigator that it would not be fair to hold Santander liable for Mr E and 
Mrs S consequential loss claim. Santander might have been slow to respond appropriately 
to the existence of the charge, but Mr E and Mrs S were always aware the charge existed. 
They also knew or at least should have known  because it was set out in the original offer  
that no other charge was permissible without Santanders express consent.
I appreciate Mr E and Mrs S may be lay people and not experts in the field of mortgage 
finance. But they had the benefit of a mortgage advisor and a solicitor to ensure they were 
aware of and understood the content of the mortgage offer issued in Mr Es name. I imply no 
criticism of the advisor or solicitor in making that observation, and none should be inferred. 
What it does mean, however, is that I cant fairly hold Santander liable for the claim for 
losses Mr E and Mrs S have made in their complaint. Santander caused further delays after 
it became aware of the charge. Nonetheless, I dont think that supersedes Mr E and Mrs S 
prior knowledge of the charge, at least not to the extent that I can fairly award them redress 
beyond the increased award for distress and inconvenience already proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should settle this complaint fully and finally by 
paying Mr E and Mrs S £500. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes 
this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman