DRN-3224557
The complaint
Mr T complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan. He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Wealthwise Corporate Financial Management Limited is responsible for answering this 
complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to Wealthwise.
What happened
Mr T approached Wealthwise in late 2015 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Wealthwise completed a fact-find in January 2016 to gather information about Mr Ts 
circumstances and objectives. A summary was broadly as follows:
Mr T was 54 years old, long-term unemployed, divorced and living with a close family 
relative. He was described as having left work in 2010 due to poor health and he had 
an ongoing anxiety disorder.
 
Mr Ts only income or assets at the time were described as state benefits of £580 per 
month. He had no mortgage and had around £5,000 of debt which he was paying 
back at £225 per month as part of an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). There 
were around two-and-a-half years left to run on the IVA.
Wealthwise said the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value of Mr Ts pension was around 
£155,000. The scheme had a normal retirement age of 65. 
In the light of recently changed rules - pension freedoms - Mr T had an aspiration to 
access his pension within the next year or so, at the age of 55.
In February 2016, Wealthwise went on to recommend in its suitability report that Mr T should 
transfer out of his DB OPS and into a personal pension plan. It noted Mr Ts intention to 
access the pension at 55 and to drawdown cash thereafter to support his lifestyle. 
Wealthwise pointed out that hed be able to access his funds more flexibly and pass on 
money after his death in a way that suited his circumstances.
Mr T acted on the advice by transferring out. He is now represented by a company acting on 
his behalf which says Mr T was given advice by Wealthwise that was unsuitable and has 
caused him losses. The complaint has been referred to our Service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint and said we should uphold it. They thought Mr T would not have 
transferred out if Wealthwise had given him suitable advice. 
Wealthwise didnt agree with our investigator and I have considered everything that it said 
with care. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. This means Wealthwise should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the advice to transfer out was in 
Mr Ts best interests.
Financial comparisons and viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Wealthwise said the critical yield required to match Mr Ts OPS benefits at age 65 was 
10.07% if he took a full estimated pension of £9,185 per year. Wealthwise didnt say what 
the critical yield was if hed opted to take a tax-free cash element at 65 and a reduced 
pension, but it said the critical yield was 7.27% when compared against the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF). Ive noted that whilst the pension trustees said the OPS overall was 
in deficit, theres no evidence or suggestion that it was in danger of being transferred to the 
PPF at that time.
Ive also noted the relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can 
refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before October 
2017 and was 4.2% per year for 10 years to retirement. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2% per year.
I have kept in mind that Mr Ts aspiration at the time was to access his pension savings at 
around the age of 55, rather than 65. Nevertheless, the above figures demonstrate, in my 
view, just how much Mr Ts transferred funds would need to grow by even to match those in 
his OPS. 
I've taken all these figures into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate and Mr Ts low attitude to risk. There would be little point in Mr T giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his OPS only to achieve, at best, the same level of 
benefits outside that scheme. But here, given what Ive pointed out above, I think that by 
transferring out, Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower amount, whether 
his retirement plans came sooner or later.
Wealthwise provided very little analysis which showed whether, or for how long, Mr T might 
have been able to meet his financial needs in retirement if he transferred out. So there was 
nothing Ive seen for Mr T showing how the funds might be depleted, or indeed used up 
completely, at certain ages. Some information was provided to Mr T about probable growth rates in the new funds if he transferred out, but as Wealthwise will know, past performance is 
no guarantee for future performance.  
So, taking account of all these things, I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be much more realistic methods in determining the long-term effects 
of transferring from his OPS. And in this case, all these indicate that transferring out made 
Mr T worse off in the long-term.
All of this means that it was likely that Mr T would end up with less valuable benefits overall 
by transferring. Of course, I accept financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice; there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive therefore considered these below to see if the 
transfer was suitable in spite of the potentially lower benefits.
Flexibility and income needs
In its suitability report Wealthwise said Mr T would benefit from much greater freedom and 
flexibility than his OPS if he transferred out. However, I think Wealthwise poorly defined what 
these terms really meant in Mr Ts circumstances.
I dont think Mr T required the flexibility Wealthwise inferred. Mr T had very modest financial 
means and I think its also fair to say he was probably being faced with a challenging time in 
his life when he sought the advice. So, I can certainly see how the prospect of a lump sum 
from his pension at the age of 55, and a subsequent income or drawdown, might have 
seemed very useful to him. I think in his situation, this would have represented a lot of 
money.
However, based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think its clear that Mr T had a genuine 
need to access his tax-free lump-sum cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age 
and either leave the funds invested until a later date or start drawing them down. Whilst 
obviously an attractive prospect, this needed to be considered very carefully in Mr Ts 
vulnerable situation and balanced against other aspects of his overall financial 
circumstances. 
Ive noted that we now know Mr T did eventually go on to access all the pension some time 
later, several months after the advice was given. But what he went on to do wasnt known at 
the time of the advice, so it wouldnt have formed any consideration for the recommendation 
that Weathwise gave. Put another way, Wealthwises recommendation didnt become more 
suitable just because of what Mr M did much later on.
I also havent seen anything showing that  however modest Mr Ts financial means were at 
that time  he needed money to such an urgent extent as to make all other considerations, 
such as his longer-term retirement security, much less important. Theres no suggestion, for 
instance, that his housing situation was at risk at that time or that his debts werent being 
properly managed. And whilst I see he didnt enjoy problem-free health, Ive seen nothing 
showing his life expectancy was considered so short as to make transferring out urgent. 
On the other hand, by being advised to access the pension at a comparatively young age, 
Mr T was being exposed to the risk of having less income later in life. And I think his 
circumstances were such that he would have needed an income in the years ahead, 
particularly given his health condition and his living situation. I think that at the time it was 
likely Mr T may have needed at some point in the future to find new accommodation or to 
pay more for the home he was in; my understanding is the premises he lived in was council 
owned and leased to an elderly relative.Furthermore, because Mr T was only 54 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive 
seen, he didnt have concrete retirement plans. I think this just added to the fact that it was 
simply too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme  after 
all, this was his major retirement provision. 
Accordingly, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr T to give up all the 
guaranteed benefits the OPS came with when he didnt really yet know what his needs in 
later life would be. If Mr T later had reason to transfer out of his OPS he could have done so 
closer to retirement age. I cant see evidence that he had a strong need for cash and a 
variable income at this point, when considering what hed also have to forgo to get these.
Death benefits
This issue was cited by Wealthwise as of importance to Mr T who was divorced but had four 
children. I understand three were adults and the remaining child lived with their mother. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was most likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and he might have thought it was a 
good idea to transfer a DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here 
was to advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. 
Whether the death benefits were improved following a transfer depended on how much 
remained in the pension fund at the point of Mr Ts passing. Given average life expectancy, 
and the size of the fund, it was always likely that this fund would be entirely depleted prior to 
Mr Ts death providing no death benefits. I dont think that Wealthwise made this clear.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. I cant see any evidence 
which shows he placed passing on wealth at or near the top of his objectives for his pension.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ts desire for control over his pension benefits needed to be considered with 
everything else that was known. Theres no evidence he was an experienced investor and I 
cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to effectively manage his 
pension funds. I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr T  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring him away from the DB scheme.
Ive seen no direct evidence, nor has it been really suggested, that he funding of Mr Ts OPS 
was in a position such that Mr T should have genuinely been concerned about the security of 
his pension. Furthermore, if the scheme did end up moving to the PPF, I think Wealthwise 
should have explained that this was not as concerning as Mr T thought. As Ive explained 
above, Mr T was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through 
the PPF if he transferred out to a personal pension.
Summary
As Ive demonstrated above, I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr T. But Wealthwise wasnt there to just to transact what Mr T might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what he needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. Its not clear whether, or to 
what extent, there was an option for Mr T to access his pension early whilst remaining in the 
OPS. I cant see it was discussed in any detail. 
Instead, what Mr T was advised to do was to give up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing 
income provided by his OPS. By transferring out, Mr T was very likely to obtain much lower 
retirement benefits and in my view there were no other particular reasons which would justify 
a transfer or outweigh this.  Mr T shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme 
just to repay debts that were moderate, affordable and already within a formulated IVA. The 
potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his 
OPS.
So, I think Wealthwise should have advised Mr T to remain in his OPS. Of course, I have to 
consider whether he would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway, if advised against it. I 
have carefully considered Wealthwises responses to the complaint points and also that it 
said Mr T went on to eventually access all his funds without, it says, its knowledge. However, 
in following Wealthwises recommendation to transfer out, Mr T was in a very different 
position than he would have been. He had by then, easy access to funds that he ought not to 
have had. So, accessing those benefits was made easy for him. 
I therefore dont think its reasonable to conclude that what he did (eventually accessing all 
the funds) means hed have gone against professional advice to stay in his OPS. And I 
certainly cant conclude that Mr Ts mind was made up prior to meeting with Wealthwise: I 
think its more likely that hed have still followed a more suitable recommendation, even if 
that meant not transferring out and deferring taking his benefits.
So, to be clear, Im not persuaded that Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of the 
OPS, against advice, had it been to remain in. I think if Wealthwise had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the OPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think Mr T would have accepted that.
In light of the above, I think Wealthwise should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Wealthwise to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Wealthwise must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Wealthwise may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ts contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date Wealthwise receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Wealthwise to pay Mr 
T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that 
Wealthwise pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Wealthwise Corporate 
Financial Management Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Wealthwise Corporate Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Wealthwise Corporate Financial Management Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out 
above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Wealthwise Corporate Financial Management Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Wealthwise Corporate 
Financial Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman