DRN-3997937
The complaint
Mr D complains about the level of interest applied to his savings account that he held with 
Sainsburys Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr D held a savings account. Hes unhappy there have been three increases to the Bank of 
England interest rate and although he didnt expect the rate on his account to rise on every 
occasion, hes unhappy that by the third increase this wasnt reflected to his account, 
particularly as his account was variable. He also says the terms and conditions state his 
interest may increase to reflect a change in the Bank of England rate but this didnt happen.
Sainsburys referred to the terms and conditions which states their interest rates may 
increase. Sainsburys also added they dont automatically increase the interest rate on 
existing customers accounts but that they do advertise other accounts online so if Mr D 
wanted to get a new rate, hed need to contact them to discuss applying for a new account.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the terms and conditions say 
Sainsburys may change the interest rate, not that they must. And that the terms state 
Sainsburys do not automatically change rates to match new offers. Therefore, he didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong in not proactively changing Mr Ds interest rate.
Mr D didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute about the interest rate that was advertised, and the rate Mr D received 
when he opened his account. It was ultimately up to Sainsburys to decide the level of 
interest they wanted to offer, so my decision has focused on whether Sainsburys have 
treated Mr D fairly.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account which says the interest rate on 
his account is variable which means it can change. The terms do also state the interest 
could change as a result of the change in the Bank of England rate. But it doesnt say that it 
must change to reflect any changes in the Bank of England rate. I take on board Mr Ds 
comments that there were a number of increases by the Bank of England and that his 
account had a variable rate so he feels this was misleading, but I dont think it was 
guaranteed that the interest rate on his account would increase in line with the rate set by 
the Bank of England, or that Sainsburys had to follow this. I therefore dont think Sainsburys 
did anything wrong in not increasing Mr Ds interest rate.
Sainsburys have said they introduced new interest rates to attract new customers but that 
existing customers would be able to contact them to discuss taking advantage of the newly 
advertised rates. This is further supported by the terms and conditions which state 
Sainsburys may offer different interest rates for new accounts but that the interest rate on 
existing accounts wont automatically change to match the new rates. I dont think it would 
be unreasonable for Mr D to monitor other accounts to take advantage of better interest 
rates if he was unhappy with the interest that he was receiving with the account that hed 
opened. 
Mr D has referred to articles online about this matter and has said the interest rate on 
Sainsburys loans have risen so Sainsburys have been proactive to financially suit 
themselves. But I have focused on Mr Ds specific circumstances in considering whether 
Sainsburys have treated him fairly in relation to his account. And for the reasons Ive 
outlined above I think they have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman