DRN-2886351
The complaint
T has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned down its business interruption 
insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr A has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. 
What happened
T held a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. It claimed on its policy after closing 
on 20 March 2020, due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. 
 
AXA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable 
disease at the premises, T had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the 
national pandemic. As AXA thought T had closed in response to the national lockdown, 
rather than because someone at their premises had Covid-19, AXA turned down its claim.
T complained to AXA. It thought the policy should provide cover for the circumstances of its 
claim because both staff and members had been affected by Covid-19. AXA paid T £100 
compensation for not discussing the circumstances of Ts claim with it at the beginning. 
However, after reviewing the further information provided by T, AXA still declined its claim, 
as they thought T had closed due to the national lockdown, rather than because someone at 
the premises had Covid-19. 
 
T was unhappy with AXAs response and brought its complaint to our service. It said one of 
its employees had been unable to work due to symptoms of Covid-19 and one of its 
members had died of Covid-19 in April 2020, after having been at the premises a few days 
before it closed. 
 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he thought 
the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case manifesting 
itself at the premises. He thought a court would most likely interpret this to mean that 
someone would need to display symptoms of Covid-19 whilst at Ts premises. And he didnt 
think he was able to conclude that there had most likely been someone displaying symptoms 
of Covid-19 at Ts premises. 
 
T asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said there could have been many unreported cases 
of Covid-19 at the premises. It also said that the timing of when its employee and member 
became unwell would indicate that it was likely Covid-19 had manifested itself at the 
premises in the days before T closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ts business. However, unfortunately Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if AXA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ts claim.  
 
The most relevant part of Ts policy covers loss as a result of: 
 
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease other than Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any 
AIDS related condition manifesting itself at the Premises or at any situations (or 
to property) as specifically mentioned in the Schedule 
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so Ive considered the 
information I have to decide if I think its most likely there was a case of Covid-19 
manifesting itself at Ts premises.
I agree with our investigator that a court would most likely interpret the word manifesting to 
mean that someone had displayed symptoms of the disease or been diagnosed with it. And 
as this extension requires the disease to have manifested itself at the premises, I think the 
symptoms or diagnosis would need to have been present while the person with Covid-19 
was on Ts premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Therefore, its rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. So, to treat that as a minimum 
requirement would, in my view, be unfair. Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 manifested itself at the 
insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the 
policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers. 
T has provided copies of handwritten entries in a diary showing that its employee was 
working on 18 March 2020. T has also provided a copy of a text message, sent by the 
employee on 20 March 2020, to let T know they wouldnt be coming into work. The message 
says: I doubt its corona but Ive got symptoms of it. 
Ts employee clearly believed they had symptoms of Covid-19 and took action based on that 
belief. However, I havent seen anything to indicate that the employee had symptoms while 
at work on 18 March 2020.
T has also provided information about one of its members who sadly died from Covid-19 at 
the beginning of April 2020. T has shown its likely the member was at its premises on        
17 March 2020 and the social media posts provided indicate that Ts member died due to 
Covid-19. However, I havent seen anything to indicate that they displayed symptoms of 
Covid-19 while at Ts premises. 
I understand that the incubation period for Covid-19 means that both the employee and 
member could have contracted Covid-19 before they last visited Ts premises, or they could 
have contracted it at the premises. I also I understand that its been difficult for T to get more 
information about its members symptoms due to the sensitivity of the situation. 
However, to uphold Ts complaint Id need to decide that it was more likely than not that 
someone at Ts premises was either displaying symptoms of Covid-19 or had been 
diagnosed with Covid-19. In this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to indicate that 
anyone had symptoms of Covid-19 or had a diagnosis of it whilst at Ts premises.  
I appreciate my decision will be very disappointing to T but, having considered this matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay its claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman