DRN-3311080
The complaint
Mr J and Miss M complain that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) declined their claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J and Miss M had a home insurance policy with NFU. In January 2021 builders were 
doing some work in the dining room in their property to fix a small damp patch. During the 
work they discovered that the timber sole plate supporting the walls at one end of the 
property was suffering severe rot. 
In February 2021 they made a claim on their insurance. NFU appointed a loss adjuster who 
attended the property to inspect the damage. NFU subsequently also appointed a forensic 
investigator to complete a structural review of the affected area of the property.
Following receipt of the two reports NFU wrote to Mr J and Miss M to say it was declining the 
claim. It said that it believed the sole plate had rotted due to being exposed to wet ground 
over a prolonged period of time. It said this was due to the fact the sole plate was below 
ground level and the ground had increased water content due to increased rainfall and the 
removal of trees. It said that gradually operating causes were specifically excluded under the 
policy, which meant the claim wouldnt be covered. 
Mr J and Miss M didnt agree this was fair. They said the report from NFUs experts had 
based their findings on the fact there had been an increase in rainfall, however theyd looked 
into this and found that rainfall had decreased in the years that preceded the claim. They 
also said there were broken drains found in the area but these had been disregarded as a 
possible cause. Further, they said that the photo of the trees that were removed that NFU 
provided was incorrectly dated which showed that its investigation was flawed. They made a 
complaint.
NFU responded to say that its position on the claim remained the same. It said, the ground 
had not just been affected by the amount of rain over the years before but also by a large 
amount in a short period. It also said that the images it had of the trees that were removed 
was taken in 2009 and shows the trees were in place two years before they bought it so 
didnt agree this was incorrect. Finally it said that the cause of the cracking to the pipes 
hadnt been established and its experts had found no evidence of subsidence. 
Mr J and Miss M were unhappy with this response and brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
She said that NFU had relied on the opinion of its experts reports and, while Mr J and 
Miss M disagreed with this, they hadnt provided any expert evidence to disprove the 
position. So thought NFU were reasonable in declining the claim. 
Mr J and Miss M didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFU has said that the timber sole plate has rotted due to a gradually operating cause. And 
this is excluded under the policy. I need to consider whether its done enough to show this 
exclusion applies and if it has acted fairly and reasonably by applying it here. 
In order to determine the cause of the damage, NFU has instructed two experts  a loss 
adjuster and a forensic investigator. Both have produced reports on the likely cause. From 
looking at these reports I can see that both experts have concluded that the damaged to the 
sole plate is most likely gradually operating. 
The forensic report is the more detailed of the two and concludes as follows:
In my opinion, the main cause of the rot was that the sole plate was buried under the 
external ground level, which made it vulnerable to any change in ground water levels. It is 
likely that a combination of normal variations in weather patterns and the removal of large 
trees from around the property caused the water table to rise in the vicinity and cause 
internal dampness and rot of the sole plate.
So the expert thinks the position of the plate below ground, and the condition of that ground 
was the main cause of the rot. As this form of water ingress happens over a long period of 
time, and as both expert reports from NFU support this position, I think its reasonable that 
NFU concluded the cause of the damage was gradually operating.
Mr J and Miss M have disputed NFUs position for a number of reasons, I will address the 
most relevant in turn. 
Rainfall data
Mr J has said that NFUs comments about the sole plate being exposed to increased rainfall 
isnt backed up by data. And has provided his own data that he says shows rainfall has 
decreased rather than increased.
Ive considered this but it doesnt persuade me that NFUs position is unfair or unreasonable. 
NFUs expert has said that the ground will become damper due to sustained rainfall in a 
short period, even if the overall rainfall across the year is less. Further its expert has listed a 
number of reasons why the ground may have contained more moisture over the years, and 
rainfall was just one of these. I therefore dont think the data is relevant to prove its position, 
so its reasonable this wasnt something it considered in detail in its reports. And Mr Js data 
isnt enough to persuade me NFU has acted unfairly. 
Broken pipe
Mr J has said that there were broken pipes found in the vicinity of the rotted sole plate. And 
this was likely caused by subsidence. He says that NFU hasnt considered this as a possible 
cause.
I can see in both of NFUs expert reports that the pipes have been considered as a possible 
cause of the damage. And both conclude it is unlikely that they were the cause.The forensic report states:
I consider it highly unlikely that the cracked and displaced pipes uncovered in a trench to the
north of the property contributed significantly to the rot of the sole plate.
And the report from NFUs loss adjuster states:
If water from leaking pipes was partially responsible, there would be cover but a) we 
consider this would be a minor contributory factor, and b) we only have the Insured's word 
that the pipes were leaking, we have no evidence as such.
As both experts instructed by NFU have come to the same conclusion that the pipes were 
unlikely to have caused the damage, I dont agree that NFU has disregarded this as a 
possible cause. And think its reasonable that it relied on the opinion of its experts in reaching 
this decision. While Mr J has said he thinks the pipes were the cause, he hasnt provided an 
expert opinion to support this position. So, I think NFU has acted fairly and reasonably by 
relying on its experts opinions in relation to the pipes.
Tree removal
Mr J has also disputed the date of the photo NFU provided to show trees present at the 
property in 2009, that were later removed. He says the date is incorrect as the growth of the 
trees shows it wasnt taken during winter months.
The fact the trees were removed doesnt appear to be in dispute here, just the season the 
photo was taken in. As it is the tree removal that is relevant to the declinature of the claim, 
and not the date of the photo, I dont consider this to be relevant to NFUs claim decision. So 
regardless of the date of the photo, it doesnt persuade me that NFU has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mr J and Miss Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr J and Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman