DRN-3288635
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy with the outcome of a claim she made to Marks & Spencer Financial
Services Plc (MSF) in respect of a transaction on her credit card.
What happened
Miss O used her MSF credit card to part pay for a second hand car. However, she says 
that some serious structural damage was discovered shortly after purchase. Miss O says 
that an independent garage said the car was not safe to drive, the damage was likely 
historic, and it should never have been sold in that condition.
Miss O approached MSF to help with the dispute as it wasnt possible to resolve matters 
with the garage which sold the car (the supplier).
MSF considered the matter under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75) but it said Miss O did not have a valid claim because of the lack of the correct debtor- 
creditor-supplier agreement.
Miss O was not satisfied with this outcome  but MSF would not change it. So Miss O 
complained to this service about the way MSF looked at things.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, they thought that MSF did not 
act unreasonably in declining the Section 75 claim.
Miss O has asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
I looked at the case and initially had some questions for MSF. I explained that it looked as 
if it should and could have raised a chargeback - so I wondered why it hadnt done so. In 
summary, it responded to disagree and explain that:
Miss O originally wanted to claim back all the funds via Section 75;
The car had a valid MOT when it was sold confirming it was roadworthy; and
If the problems had arisen on the forecourt there would have been a better chance 
to raise a claim because for a possible chargeback MSF would look at how 
long/how many miles the customer had used the car.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 15 December 2021. In this I said:
Section 75
Section 75 allows Miss O to hold MSF responsible for breach of contract or
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using her credit card. However,
there are certain technical requirements that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be
valid. This might be in relation to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the
transaction, or the way the payment was made.
In order to decide what is fair and reasonable I have considered the technical requirements
that need to be satisfied in order for a Section 75 claim to be valid. These are set out in the
Consumer Credit Act 1974. One of those requirements is for a debtor-creditor-supplier
agreement between the parties to the transaction.
Miss O is the account holder so she is the debtor, while the supplier for the purposes of the
transaction is the car dealership taking the payment. In order for there to be a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement I would need to be satisfied that Miss O contracted with the 
supplier of the car for the purchase.
From what I understand the car was for Miss Os partner (Mr C). It is Mr C who appears on
the contractual paperwork with the supplier  and from what I understand he is the sole
driver of the car, appearing on the insurance and registration. In addition, post-sale he
appears to have been the one to have contacted the supplier regarding the dispute over the
safety issue. From this information it appears that Mr C is the sole contracting party with the
supplier. I understand that Miss O lives with Mr C and benefits from the car as a passenger 
however, in the circumstances I dont consider this is enough to say she is actually a joint
contracting party for the purposes of Section 75.
So, I would agree with our investigator and MFS that there isnt a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement for Miss O to have a Section 75 claim against MFS in respect of the 
purchase of the car. However, I have also gone on to consider another avenue which I think 
MFS could have explored in order to help Miss O.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way that a financial business might be able to recover funds for their card
customer. There are various rules which govern a particular chargeback scheme. It isnt
always right to raise one but where there are reasonable grounds to do so this will be good
practice.
I have considered what MSF has said about Miss O asking for a Section 75 claim to be
considered. However, I dont think this is a reason for MSF to completely discount
chargeback. I note from call recordings that chargeback was discussed between the parties
and that Miss O was keen to claim everything from MSF via Section 75. However, when it
became clear to MSF there was no valid Section 75 claim it would have been reasonable for
it to consider a chargeback as initially discussed. I cant see where it did this.
I have looked at whether there were grounds to raise a chargeback under the relevant card
scheme and in doing so I have considered the rules I believe were in force at the time. The
relevant reason code here appears to be Goods or Services Were Either Not as Described
or Defective.
I have considered whether Miss O had provided appropriate information to enable MSF to
raise a chargeback. I note Miss O had provided evidence in the form of a signed dispute
form explaining the issue and a third party expert report. She also provided correspondence
indicating there were failed attempts to resolve the dispute with the supplier, and that the
goods had been made available for pickup. It also seems that MSF still had time to raise a
chargeback in accordance with the time limits in the scheme rules. Overall, it seems that
MSF had enough information to reasonably raise a chargeback in accordance with the
scheme rules applicable at the time.MSF has indicated that it was prevented from raising a chargeback because the fault was
not identified straight away, and the car had a valid MOT when sold. MSF has actually
indicated that when the car was driven off the suppliers premises Miss O lost all chargeback
rights. There is nothing I can find in the scheme rules to support the notion that driving the
car away prevents a chargeback being raised. It would seem somewhat counter intuitive as
in order to discover goods are defective the customer often needs to make some use of
them.
I do understand that MSF might not think there was a reasonable chance of the chargeback
succeeding. However, I think that MSF should have at least attempted a chargeback
considering the presence of the compelling expert report carried out shortly after purchase,
and the correspondence with the garage up to that point (where it appears not to have raised
a defence regarding the MOT).
It is of course difficult to say exactly what would have happened had MSF attempted a
chargeback on behalf of Miss O. I also note MSFs point that the car did have an MOT
carried out around the time it was supplied. However, I also note that:
a compelling expert report was carried out around 5 weeks after the sale strongly
indicating the car was actually sold in an unsafe condition (rather than developing
issues later down the line as a result of usually expected wear and tear);
said report appears to show that an inadequate welding repair was carried out to
patch significant historic damage to the subframe of the car - indicating that the
extent of the problem would potentially not have been clear at the time of sale /
during an inspection;
the consumer has supplied correspondence indicating the garage had agreed to
resolve the issue and issue a refund to the point that Mr C had provided bank details
in anticipation of said refund (it seems the lingering issue in contention was who paid
for recovery of the car); and
Miss O has told us Mr Cs debit card from a third party bank was used to pay the
balance of the purchase and that said chargeback against the supplier was
successful.
All things considered, I think MSF should have attempted a chargeback and by not doing so
I think it deprived Miss O a reasonable of a chance of getting back the money. Although it is
hard to say what would definitely have happened, on balance, considering the information
above I believe the chargeback is more likely to have succeeded than not.
I have thought about a fair way to put things right in the particular circumstances. I note that
a successful chargeback would have been for £440, the amount paid on the MSF card. I
also note that if this is paid to Miss O there would have effectively been a full refund for the
car which was never collected by the supplier. However, from what I understand the car has
been kept off road since it was declared unsafe. Considering the current condition of the car
it appears more likely to cost further money to have removed than be an asset with any
value. Therefore, in the particular circumstances here I dont think it is reasonable to make a
deduction from any refund due.
I also note that Miss O has claimed several consequential losses. However, a chargeback
does not allow her to claim costs back beyond the amount paid on the card, so it isnt fair to
ask MSF to pay these extra costs.
I have thought about whether Miss O has lost out in other ways because MSF didnt raise a
chargeback when it should have. MSF appears to have rejected the Section 75 claim in earlyNovember 2019, yet it could have raised a chargeback around that time. Had that 
succeeded (as I think it likely would have) the money would have been back with Miss O
sooner. So any redress should reflect this out of pocket element. Taking into account some
time for the trader to respond to the chargeback I think MSF should re-work the credit card
account as if the £440 was refunded to Miss Os account on 1 December 2019  paying out
of pocket interest on any related credit balance from then.
My provisional decision
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should re-work Miss Os card as if the £440 was
refunded back to her card on 1 December 2019 refunding any interest and charges in
respect of the transaction from said date and paying any related credit balance back to her
with 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the date of said credit balance to the date of
settlement.
I asked the parties for their comments.
MSF disagreed with my findings. In summary, it said that when goods are taken from the 
merchant it is deemed that the customer accepted the goods in the condition sold. It added 
that the problem with the car was not reported for several weeks after collection which would 
indicate it was a developing fault  therefore there are no chargeback rights.
Miss O was happy with the provisional decision and had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank MSF for its response to my provisional decision. However, nothing it has added has 
given me cause to change my provisional findings (as set out above). I still think these are 
fair and reasonable.
MSF has raised a point which I believe is similar to what it has said previously. I believe I 
have already adequately explained my thoughts on this in the provisional decision. However, 
I will briefly deal with it again here for clarity. 
MSF indicate there are no chargeback rights for Miss O here because the car was driven 
away from the premises and because the fault was identified a few weeks after the 
purchase. However, as I have already explained, there is nothing I can find in the 
chargeback scheme rules that would support the notion that chargeback rights are lost in 
these circumstances. MSF has not supported its conclusions with any extracts from the rules 
or guidance notes. As I have said it would seem somewhat counter intuitive that a 
chargeback could never be raised for goods which have been taken away from business 
premises and discovered to be faulty through use.
Overall I am satisfied that Miss O did have chargeback rights here. Which brings me back to 
the reasoning in my provisional decision (as detailed above) in respect of whether MSF 
should have raised a chargeback, and whether that likely would have succeeded.
I have explained in my provisional decision why I think it was fair and reasonable for MSF to 
have attempted a chargeback on her behalf. Particularly as Miss O had an expert report 
indicating the car had been sold in an unsafe condition. I have also already explained in said provisional decision why I considered it more likely than 
not said chargeback would have succeeded. Although I have considered the MOT status of 
the car and its prior use, age and mileage I still stand by the reasoning I have already given 
in regard to the evidence supporting a potentially successful chargeback  particularly the 
compelling expert report and the correspondence with the supplier up to that point. As I have 
said previously, it appears that the chargeback with the other bank succeeded too.
All things considered, for the reasons already given here (and incorporating the reasoning in 
my provisional findings) I think MSF should have fairly attempted a chargeback and by not 
doing so it deprived Miss O a reasonable of a chance of getting back the money. Although it 
is hard to say what would definitely have happened had a chargeback been raised, on 
balance, I believe the chargeback is more likely to have succeeded than not. So I think it fair 
and reasonable that MSF do something to put things right.
Putting things right
MSF should re-work the card as set out below.
My final decision
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should re-work Miss Os card as if the £440 was
refunded back to her card on 1 December 2019 refunding any interest and charges in
respect of the transaction from said date and paying any related credit balance back to her
with 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the date of said credit balance to the date of
settlement.
In relation to any tax deductions it makes from the interest award MSF should provide 
Miss O with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. This is so she can claim back any 
potential tax refund if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman