DRN-3591032
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that they were mis-sold timeshare products and the loans used to 
finance the purchases. The loans were provided by Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Mr and Mrs R have been represented by a claims business, which Ill refer to as M. Where 
I refer to Mr and Mrs Rs submissions and arguments, I include those made on their behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were existing members of the Diamond Resorts European Collection 
(DREC), having originally bought a timeshare product from its predecessors in 2004. 
DREC is a timeshare and holiday club. 
Mr and Mrs R made further purchases in 2006 and 2015, increasing their membership points 
and, therefore, improving their options for using their membership points to book holiday 
accommodation and other benefits.
In June 2016 they bought an additional 19,000 points, funded in part with a loan from 
Shawbrook. In August 2016 they bought another 15,000 points, again funded in part with a 
loan from Shawbrook. The purchase agreements in each case recorded that the seller was  
Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited (DRL).
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs R complained to Shawbrook, and that complaint was referred to 
this service shortly afterwards. In summary, Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is: 
DRL misrepresented the club membership. They therefore have a claim against DRL 
and, under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a like claim against 
Shawbrook. 
The sales process was pressured, and they did not have a proper opportunity to 
consider the sale and finance documents.
The loan agreements created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Shawbrook had not carried out proper checks to ensure that the loans were affordable.  
Membership of DREC was of little or no value.
The misrepresentations alleged by Mr and Mrs R included that they would have additional 
availability of holiday accommodation, that resorts were for the exclusive use of members 
and that management and maintenance fees would only increase in line with inflation.   
Shawbrook sought comments from DRL, which rejected the claims made. In summary, it 
said:
The claim had referred to purchases in 2014, 2015 and 2016. In fact, Mr and Mrs R had 
made no purchase in 2014; the 2015 purchase had not been financed by Shawbrook; 
and there had been two purchases in 2016.  
The sales process was lengthy, but that was necessary to ensure full explanations were 
given and to comply with The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010.  
It denied the sales tactics were pressured or unfair. Mr and Mrs R were not obliged to 
attend presentations.
Customers have a 14-day cooling-off period in which to withdraw from any agreement, 
should they wish to do so.
Mr and Mrs R had been timeshare owners since 2004, so would have been familiar with 
the way the club operated.
Mr and Mrs R knew that accommodation was available on a first-come, first-served 
basis and had never raised any concerns about non-availability. They had made regular 
bookings  
Mr and Mrs R were made aware of the maintenance fees and how they would be 
calculated. 
They also knew that a commission might be paid and could have asked how much it 
would be.  
Shawbrook said that it was satisfied it had properly assessed whether the loans were 
affordable. 
When the case was referred to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened but did not recommend that it be upheld. Mr and Mrs R did not accept the 
investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
I note that Ms original complaint letter referred to purchases in 2014, 2015 and 2016, all 
funded by Shawbrook. Both DRL and Shawbrook say however that, although the 2015 
purchase was initially to be funded by Shawbrook, Mr and Mrs R pulled out of the loan within 
the 14 day cancellation period and used an alternative means of payment. There was no 
2014 agreement.
In my view, that is a fairly significant error to make, and one which must call into question Mr 
and Mrs Rs recollection of other matters at around the same time.   
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
Both 2016 purchase agreements were made between Mr and Mrs R as buyer and DRL as 
seller. They were agreements for the sale and purchase of Points Rights in DREC. DRL is 
also named as the supplier in Shawbrooks documentation. I am satisfied therefore that the loans were arranged by DRL under existing arrangements 
with Shawbrook. Indeed, that does not appear to be in dispute. I must therefore consider 
what Mr and Mrs R have said about the actions of DRL.
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
A breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract does not do what it has agreed to 
under the contract. There can be a breach if it is clear that one party will not do what it has 
agreed to do. 
In order to establish whether a party has a valid claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, it is necessary therefore to consider the contract terms. 
Contractual documents         
I note that Mr and Mrs R say that the Points Rights were poor value for money, because they 
could have secured the same accommodation more cheaply. I make no comment on that, 
save to say that poor value is not, of itself, a ground for a claim.
The sale and purchase contracts were based on a standard form produced by DRL. Each 
contract included a 3-page purchase agreement, a Key Information document, and a 
Customer Compliance Statement. 
By clause 4 of the Terms and Conditions Mr and Mrs R acknowledged receipt of the Key 
Information Document, Inventory Schedule, Withdrawal Form, Annual Global Reservations 
Directory, Resort Disclosure Booklet, the Governing Documents Booklet and the Rules and 
Regulations of the Club. 
Clause 6 was an entire agreement clause, telling buyers that if they were relying on verbal 
promises, they should be put it in writing.
Clause 7 said that, if any part of the contract was invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the rest of 
the contract would remain valid and enforceable. 
Part 1, section 4 of the Key Information document said that the club would be dissolved on 
31 December 2054. Part 3, section 4 provided information about termination of the contract. 
It explained that membership could be transferred in some circumstances. In exceptional 
circumstances it might be possible to relinquish membership. 
Part 1, section 8 outlined the Management Charge and explained how it would be 
calculated. It said expressly that the charge was not linked to inflation.   
The Customer Compliance Statement comprised 22 statements about the sale and loan. 
The statements included: 
a statement that, having looked at the Points tables, the member was aware of the 
possibilities available with the number of Points allocated to them (1);
a statement that the points system offered flexibility, subject to availability (my 
emphasis) (4);
confirmation that they were unable to meet the financial commitments under any finance 
agreement (17);a statement that the member understood that DRL worked with credit providers and that 
it was entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit brokered (18);
confirmation that they had been treated courteously, had been given time to consider 
whether the product was right for him, and had not been put under pressure (20);
confirmation they had read the purchase agreement, key information and any finance 
document and were happy to proceed (21);
confirmation that they understood that the documents constituted the entire agreement 
and that no oral or written representations had been made on which they had relied 
(22).
A signature on these statements does not of course mean that they were true. But if they 
were not true, I would have expected Mr and Mrs R, in bringing this complaint and 
addressing Shawbrooks response to it, to explain why they signed the documents and why, 
having done so, they did not exercise their right of withdrawal if they were unhappy. In 
saying that, I note that they had exercised their right of withdrawal  at least in respect of a 
loan agreement  the previous year.  
I note that some of the contractual provisions  for example, that Management Charges 
were not linked to inflation  were completely at odds with what Mr and Mrs R say they were 
told. And, as existing members since 2004, they would have known how they were 
calculated. 
It is relevant too that the purchase contracts were clear that Mr and Mrs R would not be able 
to rely on any oral representations and that they confirmed [they] had been given plenty of 
time to consider the purchases. If Mr and Mrs R felt they had been rushed into the 
agreements, [they] had 14 days in which to review things and withdraw if they werent happy.  
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a misrepresentation claim against DRL would 
succeed in this case. 
It follows that Shawbrooks decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs claim under section 75(1) 
of the Consumer Credit Act was reasonable.  
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In deciding whether to make orders under these provisions, a court can consider any linked 
agreement  which in this case would include the contracts with DRL. For the reasons I have 
explained, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under section 140B on the 
basis of misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
M says that the commission paid to DRL for introducing the loans had not been disclosed. 
DRL told Mr and Mrs R that commission might be paid, but it was under no duty to say how 
much it would be unless asked. This was not a case where DRL was acting on behalf of Mr 
and Mrs R in introducing or recommending a financial product from a range of products. It 
was selling Points Rights on its own account and providing Mr and Mrs R with payment 
options. And they knew from their experience the previous year that they did not have to 
take that option. Indeed, they paid part of the purchase price by other means in both June 
and August 2016.    In any event, I have no reason to think that, if Mr and Mrs R had asked about the level of 
commission, [they] would not have been told what it was. 
I make similar observations in respect of Ms allegation that Shawbrook procured a breach of 
fiduciary duty on the part of DRL. DRL was not acting as Mr and Mrs Rs agent and, as a 
seller of Points Rights, owed them no such duty. 
For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would make orders under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act. It follows again that Shawbrooks Capitals response to this part of 
the complaint was reasonable. 
Affordability
Mr and Mrs R say that proper assessments were not made to ensure they could afford the 
loan. 
Mr and Mrs R have not suggested however that they have had any difficulty in making 
repayments. The Customer Compliance Statement indicates that DRL did discuss the loans 
with them, although it was for Shawbrook to assess whether they were suitable and 
affordable. 
The fact that Mr and Mrs R have been able to meet the loan repayments does not, of itself, 
mean that the loans were in fact affordable, still less that Shawbrook properly assessed 
them. It is however an indication that they were, and that more detailed assessments are 
unlikely to have made any real difference overall.
Conclusion 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs R have a claim against DRL or, 
therefore, whether they have a claim under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act against 
Shawbrook. Nor do I have any power to make orders under section 140A and section 140B; 
only a court can do that. They are however matters which I must take into account in 
deciding what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I have done that and 
concluded that Shawbrooks response to Mr and Mrs Rs claims was reasonable. 
Neither Shawbrook nor Mr and Mrs R had anything to add in response to my provisional 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any more arguments or evidence for me to consider, I see no 
reason to reach a conclusion which differs from that set out in my provisional decision. I 
stress however that I have considered everything afresh before reaching this decision.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and do 
not require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023. 
Mike IngramOmbudsman