DRN-2855340
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds decision to decline her 
claim.  
What happened
Ms T had income protection insurance with L&G through her employer. Shed worked with 
her employer between 2001  2020 when she opted for voluntary redundancy. Ms T was off 
work with anxiety and depression between August 2019 up until she took redundancy in 
December 2020. Ms T was also diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in 
March 2020 and said that her symptoms were so severe that she was unable to return to 
work in any capacity. Ms T claimed on her insurance following the completion of her 26-
week deferral period, however her claim was declined in January 2020.
L&G said theres no evidence of Ms T suffering with a mental health condition. It relied on an 
independent medical assessment to reach its conclusion and firmly believes this piece of 
evidence is most persuasive because it was completed by a consultant psychiatrist. There 
were other conflicting medical opinions to the contrary, but L&G said they shouldnt 
challenge this report because of the authors seniority.
Our investigator upheld this complaint in Ms Ts favour. She acknowledged the IME relied 
upon by L&G, however, she felt that there was enough persuasive medical evidence to 
satisfactorily indicate that Ms T was suffering with several symptoms brought about by her 
poor mental health and said that L&G should pay her claim. L&G disagreed for the reasons 
already mentioned above and so its for me to make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive also decided to uphold it. I agree with the reasons already explained by 
our investigator. I think theres sufficient medical evidence to say that Ms T was 
incapacitated throughout the deferral period and therefore I believe that she met the policy 
terms. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say;
Own occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred
period.
This means that Ms T must evidence that she was incapacitated during that time. The 
medical evidence Ive seen shows that she was suffering with severe symptoms of 
depression, anxiety and PTSD. There are several pieces of medical evidence, gathered 
between October 2019  March 2020 which recorded the symptoms Ms T was suffering, 
including PHQ-9 and GAD-7 scores  all of which indicated severe debilitating symptoms, 
including low mood, panic attacks, sleep deprivation, exhaustion, poor appetite and reliving 
past traumas brought on by stress and anxiety. 
It sounds as though Ms T had gone through a terrible time and I hope things have since 
improved for her. She was also taking prescribed medication and had completed some initial 
counselling provided by her employer. Following the diagnosis of PTSD Ms T was referred 
for 1:1 high intensity counselling to help combat her symptoms, but this had to be organised 
and delivered by the NHS and so there was a considerable wait until this could happen.  
L&G declined her claim despite knowing the above. At the time, it relied on an assessment 
completed by one of its rehabilitation specialists which determined that Ms T was well 
enough to return to work in January 2020. Ive considered this report, but Im less persuaded 
by it. The report said that Ms T was suffering with moderately severe depression and severe 
anxiety and yet recommended she was well enough to return to work. I found it difficult to 
rely on those comments, given the disparity between the severity of Ms Ts symptoms and 
the recommendation to return to work. 
The report also appears to suggest that because Ms T was taking first-line medication for 
her symptoms, and the lack of clarity from her GP about her on-going treatment, there was 
no perceived barrier to return to work. I struggled with this connection because I dont think it 
fair to reach conclusions about Ms Ts illness or readiness to return to work, based on the 
effectiveness of her GP  or prescribed treatment plan by the NHS. Further, a few days later, 
Ms T was referred for additional treatment by the NHS  which I understand attracts 
significant wait times. I dont think itd be fair to effectively hold Ms T responsible for that, or 
decline her claim on the basis that her treatment plan was unclear or delayed, given her 
symptoms were well documented and clearly significant.  
Its because of this, I think L&G declined Ms Ts claim unfairly because I think there was 
enough available medical evidence to demonstrate that she satisfied the definition of 
incapacity. This was further supported by another IME in March 2020. This report was 
commissioned by an occupational physician thatd reviewed Ms T and his overall 
recommendation was that Ms T would not be ready to return to work for some time. He gave 
an indication that shed not be ready to return to work for several months as a consequence 
of severe anxiety and PTSD. He acknowledged shed have to wait some time for her 
treatment because of the delays associated with NHS mental health referrals and 
psychological treatment. He acknowledged that Ms T had been diagnosed with these 
conditions previously, however, he further supported the diagnosis saying he agreed with it. 
The symptoms documented in this report appear more consistent with the other reports and 
so Im more persuaded by its recommendation about Ms Ts ability to return to work at that 
time. I think Ms T had met the threshold of evidence required in order to satisfy the 
incapacity term at this point, but L&G, it would appear, remained unconvinced and so 
referred her for an additional IME  which I didnt think was necessary, given what Ive just 
explained. 
L&Gs main argument in response to the investigators opinion was that the IME in April 
2020 said that theres nothing to suggest Ms T was suffering with a mental health problem 
that would stop her working. This detailed report captured a wealth of information about Ms 
T and some of the stressors in her life. The consultant psychiatrist acknowledged that Ms T 
was vulnerable but didnt conclude there was any psychological illness present at the time of 
the review. However, I also noted the following comment by the specialist;
I did not find evidence of a current functional impairment that would significantly interfere 
with ordinary, daily activities, such as basic self-care. However, I consider [Ms Ts] current presentation and related psychological difficulties to require a level of psychological 
adjustment which well exceeds her ability to cope with demanding tasks (such as work-
related duties) without professional help  
I thought it important to highlight this because although it suggested Ms T was able to cope 
with daily living tasks, it also indicated she was unable to apply a similar level of ability where 
work was concerned. The report also indicated that she was experiencing symptoms 
consistent with adjustment disorder and that her other underlying vulnerabilities meant that 
she was psychologically stuck. The recommendation was further clinical intervention to 
help her get to a space where she was able to begin engaging with her employer so that she 
could eventually determine whether she wanted to set goals with the aim to returning to paid 
employment. 
I think the report, whilst detailed, is, at times, unclear. I say that because although it 
suggested there wasnt a psychological problem present at the time of the evaluation, it goes 
on to say;
[Ms T] meets the criteria for an ICD-10 diagnosis of F43 Adjustment Disorder. There have 
been some functional impairments
Ive taken this to mean that Ms T was experiencing mental health problems that would 
preclude her from returning to work at that time. Ive also considered this alongside the other 
medical reports mentioned above, that also suggest that Ms T was unable to return to work 
because of her anxiety and PTSD. Its for these reasons I think her claim should have been 
accepted in line with our investigators view. 
There was some discussion around Ms T completing additional CBT and counselling 
sessions with the view to establishing whether she could eventually consult with her 
employer about returning to work in the future. But there were several caveats attached to 
that recommendation and it was dependent on the success and progression, or lack thereof, 
of those sessions. I think its because of those caveats that the report became difficult for 
L&G to follow as some parts appeared conflicting, particularly around whether Ms T was 
suffering with a psychological problem and whether she was well enough to return to work. 
However, when considering all the medical evidence in the round, Im persuaded theres 
enough to demonstrate that Ms T was too unwell to work given the symptoms she suffered 
as a result of her severe anxiety, depression and PTSD. 
Ms T took voluntary redundancy at the end of December 2020 and so Im recommending 
that L&G pay the claim in line with its policy terms. I say that because Im persuaded she 
was suffering with poor mental health and symptoms that precluded her from returning to 
work.  
My final decision
Im upholding Ms Ts complaint and Legal and General Assurance Society Limited must now 
pay Ms Ts claim.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman