DRN-2183098
The complaint
Mr C complains about the delay and poor service he experienced when he claimed under his 
appliance cover with British Gas Insurance Limited (BG).
What happened
Mr C had Homecare and Kitchen Appliance Cover with BG. His washing machine wasnt 
working, so he booked an appointment online for BG to attend the following week. BG didnt 
have all the parts necessary to complete the repair, so the engineer ordered the part and 
agreed a second appointment for a week later.
Mr C received a call from BG saying the part wasnt available, but it would order it. He asked 
to keep the appointment. BG said it would be in touch about an appointment when the part 
arrived.
Mr C called BG a week later to follow up on progress. BG confirmed the part had arrived a 
few days before. It offered an afternoon appointment for that week which Mr C accepted. He 
called on the day to check BG was still going to attend and it confirmed the appointment. He 
called to check again later that day and it confirmed again. BG didnt attend the appointment.
Mr C complained to BG. It apologised because the appointment had been cancelled due to 
system issues. It offered another appointment for a few days later but Mr C was going on 
holiday. An appointment was arranged for when he got back. 
BG worked on Mr Cs washing machine but needed to come back two days later with bolts to 
complete the repair.
Mr C complained to BG because he had taken time off work for appointments, spent money 
at the launderette, and generally had a poor experience. He asked BG to pay the launderette 
costs and, ideally, refund his full annual premium, but at least pay compensation of £300, 
roughly half the cost of his policy. BG made three compensation offers during the process, 
with its final offer being £50 plus launderette costs on receipt of evidence.
Mr C rejected its offer. After further discussion about the compensation, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Cs complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive decided to uphold the complaint, but I dont think the shortfalls identified warrant 
compensation of £176. I think BGs final offer of £126 is fair. I understand Mr C isnt happy 
with this, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
To begin with, I think its helpful to set out a timeline of events so that were all clear about 
what Ive relied upon when reaching my provisional decision. I should point out that Mr C has 
provided two slightly different accounts of events. This is not a criticism. Its perfectly 
understandable because I wouldnt expect a policyholder to record events in the way a 
business does. So, here, Mr C relied on memory. Ive commented on this so both parties can 
understand why Ive chosen to rely on this account of events, which will differ slightly from 
some of the evidence and background information. Ill indicate where the difference lies.
Day 1  Mr C booked an online appointment for Day 8.
Day 8  BGs engineer attended. The part needed was in stock, but it was a two-
person job. The engineer booked another appointment for the following week (Day 
15). (This is where the account differs. In his call to our service, Mr C said the 
engineer needed to order the part, which he did there and then. Ive chosen to rely on 
the first version  that the engineer said the part was in stock  because that makes 
more sense of the next event.)
Day 8 (later)  BG called Mr C because the part wasnt in stock and would need to be 
ordered. Mr C asked to keep the Day 15 appointment because he thought it would be 
difficult to get a two-person appointment. BG said it would cancel and rebook when 
the part arrived. It would be in touch with Mr C.
Day 15  Mr C called BG for an update. BG said the part had arrived on Day 10. Mr 
C complained that no one had called him to arrange a new appointment. An 
afternoon appointment was arranged for two days later.
Day 17  Twice during the afternoon, Mr C called BG to check the appointment was 
going ahead. Both times BG confirmed it was. The engineers didnt arrive. Mr C 
made a third call and BG told him the booking was corrupted on its system. (The 
account differs again here. Mr C also said that BG told him it had only booked one 
engineer.) It apologised and said it would investigate and call back the next day.
Day 18  BG called Mr C offering an appointment for the beginning of the following 
week. Mr C was going on holiday, so the appointment was agreed for Day 29 after he 
returned. BG offered Mr C compensation for the inconvenience, which he rejected.
Day 20 to 27  Mr C was on holiday.
Day 29  Two engineers attended. They couldnt complete the repair because they 
needed some bolts.
Day 31  BG returned and completed the repair.
Looking at the timeline, I think the service failures started on Day 10. Everything before then 
seems to be a reasonable sequence of events for a washing machine repair under the 
policy. At the first appointment, BG said it needed to order a part/a second person to help 
with the job. I wouldnt expect the engineer to have parts available for every repair given the 
vast range of washing machines, or to know whether it needed two people until the fault was 
assessed. So I think that it was reasonable to arrange a second appointment.
I can understand why BG didnt keep the Day 15 appointment available. Mr C, himself, said 
that it may be harder to get an appointment for a two-person job, so I wouldnt expect BG to 
keep two people free just in case the part arrived by then. Nor would it have been fair to ask 
Mr C to be available for an appointment when BG couldnt be sure the part wouldve arrived. 
So I think everything up to this point was reasonable. If BG had called Mr C and attended to 
the repair at the first available date after it received the part, I dont think Mr C wouldve been 
unhappy with the service. I can understand that he mightve been frustrated if, when the part 
arrived, the appointment turned out to be later than the original one planned for Day 15, but I 
think he wouldve understood why BG couldnt hold the appointment for him. 
So, the service failures started on Day 10 when BG didnt get in touch with Mr C, as 
promised, when the part arrived. When he checked on progress, BG offered Mr C an appointment for Day 17, which he 
accepted. If BG had contacted him on Day 10 when it shouldve done, its fair to assume he 
wouldve been offered an appointment at least by the same day but at the earliest Day 15 
(his previous appointment). So I think BG caused a delay of two days here. Mr C raised a 
complaint at this point.
Mr C called twice to confirm the afternoon appointment on Day 17. At that point the 
engineers hadnt missed that, or any other appointment. So I dont think those calls were an 
inconvenience caused by BG. Nor do I think it was wrong of BG to confirm the appointment. 
It had a record of two named engineers due to attend. So then, at least, the appointment 
was still in place. Unfortunately BG didnt attend. 
The reason BG didnt attend isnt particularly clear  the appointment was cancelled in error, 
there was a computer issue, or BG hadnt booked two engineers. Each of these were given 
as reasons, but I dont think the reason is important. The fact is BG didnt attend and it let Mr 
C down on that occasion.
Understandably, Mr C complained about the missed appointment. BG offered another 
appointment and a small payment (£10, then £20) by way of apology. Mr C rejected the 
payment because he thought the amount was insulting. He also said he was due to go on 
holiday, so the appointment wasnt suitable. BG offered an appointment for when he 
returned home which he accepted. Mr C went on holiday two days later, so I think BG was 
responsible for a further two days of delay here.
While the machine wasnt available to use for more than those two days after that because 
of BGs earlier failures, C was on holiday so he wouldnt have been using it during that week 
anyway. I think, and Mr C confirmed, the inconvenience was being unable to get his familys 
clothes ready for their holiday. He used a launderette and says he collected the washing 
after work. I realise it wouldve been inconvenient for Mr C to do that, but BG has agreed to 
reimburse the launderette cost. Im satisfied thats a fair offer to resolve this part of the 
complaint.
BG attended the Day 29 appointment when Mr C was home from holiday and BG returned 
on Day 31, completing the washing machine repair. Its not clear why it didnt have the bolts 
needed to complete the job on Day 29 and I dont think that helped matters. Mr C 
complained that he needed to take another day off work for the final appointment to 
complete the repair. I can understand why he wouldve been put out by that and I agree its a 
shortfall that BG should acknowledge.
Turning to BGs offer, I see that it has broken down the cost of the policy to identify how 
much Mr C paid to cover his washing machine. It calculated the cost to be a little under £50 
for the year. Mr C doesnt think its appropriate to break down the policy into individual 
elements for the purpose of compensation, and I agree. Equally, I dont think its fair to 
refund the full annual cost to Mr C because the policy was available to him for the year and 
covered other home emergency risks.
To determine the service failures, Ive broken down the events into delays caused by BG 
which couldve been avoided. I appreciate that, to Mr C, it is a simple matter of three weeks 
without a machine, trips to the launderette and unnecessary days off work. But I cant ignore 
the fact that some of those delays were reasonable; a week was due to Mr C being on 
holiday, and the biggest inconvenience was the washing machine breaking down, for which 
BG isnt responsible. 
I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr C to take two days off work  one for the first 
appointment and one for the second for BG to return with all parts, appropriate number of engineers, and to complete the repair. I agree that he took another two days off work 
unnecessarily. Its not fair for me to place a cost on those days because each person values 
their time differently. So Ive taken them into consideration for the overall complaint. The 
missed appointment and failure to bring the bolts for the repair caused the wasted days and 
its for those shortfalls that I will require BG to pay compensation. 
Its clear to me that some of Mr Cs frustration in this matter was due, in part, to him seeing 
numerous BG vehicles at a training event while he was still waiting for his repair. Its not fair 
for me to assume that had any impact on the availability of appointments but I can 
understand why Mr C mightve been put out by what he saw.
Finally, Mr C thinks BG shouldve paid him a substantial amount of compensation because 
of the years he has been a customer. The policy is there for peace of mind and I can 
understand that after paying for a long time without making any claims, Mr C thought he was 
due better service. I agree that he was due better service but its irrelevant whether he has 
been a long-standing customer or not. I think BG should provide a reasonable standard of 
service to all its customers. So Im not taking into consideration the number of years he 
hasnt made a claim. I can understand that the policy may no longer give Mr C peace of 
mind because of this experience. But I cant make an award for an assumption that BG may 
provide a poor service in the future.
In summary, BG missed one appointment and failed to bring all parts to another 
appointment, meaning Mr C took time off work unnecessarily on two occasions. BG also 
failed to notify him when the part arrived, so it didnt arrange a new appointment as soon as 
it couldve done. I think BG was responsible for delays of around six days in total, all of 
which caused Mr C frustration and inconvenience during the run up to his holiday. However, 
he was able to use the launderette and its fair for BG to cover that cost. BGs most recent 
offer was to pay Mr C compensation of £126 in total. Ive thought carefully about it, and, on 
balance, I think thats fair for the reasons Ive given.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint, and I am minded to require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr C a total of £126 by way of apology for missing an appointment, failing to 
bring the appropriate parts to a second appointment, not contacting him to arrange 
an appointment, and for the cost of using the launderette.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
BG responded to say it had no further comment.
Mr C responded to say he didnt want to invest any more time on the complaint and asked 
for the suggested sum to be paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While its clear Mr C is dissatisfied with the provisional decision, he has also made it clear he 
wants the matter to come to an end. As neither Mr C nor BG has provided any further 
information, and having looked again at the evidence, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr C a total of £126 by way of apology for missing an appointment, failing to 
bring the appropriate parts to a second appointment, not contacting him to arrange 
an appointment, and for the cost of using the launderette.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman