DRN-3944051
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as F, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
terminated its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) agreement.
Fs complaint is brought to this service by its representative, whom Ill refer to as Mr D, with 
the authorisation of Fs director. 
What happened
In June 2020, F successfully applied to Barclays for a £50,000 BBL. The monthly payments 
towards the BBL were scheduled to being in July 2021. However, in March 2021, Barclays 
made the decision to close Fs business current account (BCA) with that account being 
closed two months later, in May 2021. Without a BCA, F wasnt able to make payments 
towards its BBL  which remained active and in place  and so the loan fell into arrears. 
Another consequence of Barclays closure of Fs BCA was that F wasnt able to apply for 
Pay As You Grow (PAYG) options on its BBL  because it no longer had access to 
Barclays internet banking to enable it to do so. F wasnt happy about this, and so its director 
raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Fs complaint in September 2021 and confirmed that F could still 
apply for the PAYG options on its BBL, but that it would need to arrange to clear the arrears 
on the BBL before it could do so. Barclays apologised to F for the poor service it had 
received surrounding this matter and made a payment of £100 to F as compensation for any 
inconvenience F had incurred.
F didnt arrange to clear the BBL arrears. And, after several months, during which F 
continued to not make payments towards the BBL or clear the arrears that had accrued on 
the account, Barclays terminated the BBL loan agreement and transferred Fs debt to a third-
party debt recovery company (DRC). Fs representatives werent happy about this and so 
raised a further complaint with Barclays.
Barclays responded to Fs further complaint in July 2022 but didnt feel theyd acted unfairly 
by following the collections and recoveries process that they had. Fs representatives werent 
satisfied with Barclays response, and so Mr D referred Fs complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has referred several complaint points to this that were originally considered and 
responded to by Barclays as part of Fs earlier complaint, which Barclays responded to in 
September 2021. These include Barclays deciding to close Fs business current account and 
regarding information and service received from Barclays when F wanted to apply for PAYG 
options on its BBL.
However, this service doesnt have a free hand to look at every complaint aspect thats 
referred to us. What we can look at is defined in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. 
 
The relevant section here is DISP 2.8.2, which says that unless the business provides its 
consent, or unless exceptional circumstances apply, we cant consider a complaint if its 
brought to us more than six months after date of the complaint response letter issued by the 
respondent business.
 
In this instance, Barclays sent their complaint response to these earlier aspects of Fs 
complaint dated 1 September 2021. And that letter gave F six months from that date to refer 
its complaint to this service  if F wasnt satisfied with Barclays response to that complaint. 
But F didnt refer its complaint to this service until July 2022, which is more than six months 
after Barclays issued that complaint response.
This means that F has referred these aspects of its complaint to this service too late for us to 
be able to consider them. Furthermore, Barclays havent given their consent for us to 
consider these aspects of Fs complaint. And, given that F continued to correspond with 
Barclays throughout the six-month referral period, I dont feel that there are any exceptional 
circumstances here which reasonably prevented F from referring these complaint points to 
this service within the given timeframe. 
All of which means that Im satisfied that these earlier aspects of Fs complaint cant be 
considered by this service at this time.
But this service can consider Fs complaint that Barclays terminated its BBL agreement. This 
is because F raised this aspect of its complaint with Barclays at a later date to when it raised 
its original complaint  and received a response from Barclays about this aspect of its 
complaint dated 10 May 2022. Mr D then referred Fs complaint to this service in July 2022, 
which was within the six-month referral period. 
Mr D may contend that Barclays 10 May 2022 letter addressed all points of Fs complaint, 
including the earlier points Ive declared cant be considered by this service, and included 
six-month referral rights which therefore applied to all aspects of Fs complaint. 
But while I acknowledge that Barclays could have been clearer in explaining that the referral 
rights it gave to F in its 10 May 2022 letter only applied to aspects of Fs complaint that 
hadnt been addressed in its earlier response letter of 1 September 2021, I dont feel that it 
follows from this that F was bring given, or should have been given, de-facto extended 
referral rights on those earlier aspects of its complaint. 
Ultimately, the referral right for a complaint  as mandated by the DISP rules  is six-months. 
And this service considers that six-month referral right period to have begun at the time of 
the first issuance of those rights for a specific complaint aspect. And in this instance, as 
explained above, I cant see that there was any circumstance that reasonably prevented F 
from referring those earlier aspects of its complaint to this service within the six-month 
timeframe that began in September 2021, if it wanted to do so.
So, its only the question of whether Barclays acted fairly in terminating Fs BBL that Im 
considering here. And, having taken all the information available to me into account, I dont feel Barclays did act unfairly in terminating Fs BBL agreement. This is because F didnt 
make the scheduled payments towards its BBL which meant the loan fell into arrears. 
And while F may argue that it was unable to make BBL payments because Barclays closed 
its BCA, I feel that F had ample time from being told by Barclays in March 2021 that its BCA 
would be closed to make alternative payment arrangements for the BBL payments which 
began several months later in July 2021. Additionally, F didnt take any action to clear the 
arrears that then accrued on its BBL  despite Barclays providing ongoing written notice of 
these arrears and explaining to F on several occasions that they required F to clear them.
Because of this, I dont feel that Barclays acted unfairly by following the collections and 
recoveries process that it did  which ultimately resulted in the termination of Fs BBL 
agreement and the passing of Fs debt by Barclays to a DRC. And while F may be 
dissatisfied that its account was passed to a DRC, Barclays right to do so in such 
circumstances is detailed in the BBL agreement. As such, Im satisfied this was a course of 
action that Barclays were entitled to take.   
Im aware that Mr D feels that Barclays had promised to call F to arrange a repayment plan 
with F for the outstanding BBL arrears. But Ive listened to recordings of the telephone calls 
in question, and its clear that Barclays explained to Fs representative that it was incumbent 
on F to contact Barclays to arrange the repayment of the outstanding arrears. 
Additionally, even if it were the case that Barclays had agreed to call F  rather than 
Barclays telling F that it needed to call Barclays, as actually took place  I would still feel that 
it remained incumbent on F to have called Barclays regarding the outstanding arrears on its 
BBL, if a call from Barclays hadnt been forthcoming. And this is because the overall 
responsibility for paying a business loan such as a BBL rests with the business.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr D was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. This is because 
Im satisfied that it was Fs responsibility to manage and maintain its BBL and to contact 
Barclays to arrange the repayment of any arrears that accrued on that account. And, 
because F didnt do this, Im consequently satisfied that Barclays didnt then act unfairly by 
terminating Fs BBL agreement and passing its debt to a DRC as it did. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman