DRN-3257630
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) declined her 
claim for a damaged sofa.
What happened
Miss T was cleaning her sofa when she noticed a soft area on it. She submitted a claim for 
the damage in July 2021.  Acasta sent a technician to inspect the sofa a few weeks later. He 
reported that the damage occurred two weeks prior to his visit and that Miss T was unsure 
what had caused the damaged. Whilst Miss T hadnt explained the cause of damage, it was 
mentioned by a third party, a possible cause could have been when their child was playing 
and ran into the side of the sofa.
The technician found damage to the internal frame on one of the armrests, he felt the 
damage wasnt a structural fault but was consistent with trauma and blunt force to the area. 
Acasta declined the claim as they said it wasnt covered as the damage was caused by 
Miss Ts child. Miss T contested this, she said she wasnt present at the time of the 
discussion and the information that was passed onto the technician at the time wasnt 
correct. 
Acasta also quoted their terms and conditions for what wasnt covered, specifically that they 
wouldnt pay a claim for damage by any other cause than what was detailed in the what is 
covered section. Meaning for a claim to be accepted there needs to be evidence that an 
insurable event has occurred and that the damage was not caused by something excluded 
under the policy. 
As Acasta maintained their position, Miss T referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt ask Acasta to do anything more as she didnt think they had declined the 
claim unfairly. Miss T remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review it, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for Miss T but Ive explained my reasoning below.
The policy terms and conditions clearly set out what is and isnt covered under the policy. It 
provides some cover for structural defects to the frame and mechanical defects. However, 
the technicians report concluded that the damage was not a structural fault but consistent 
with trauma and blunt force. 
There is cover provided for accidental damage such as rips, tears and burns. It also provides 
some cover where the damage is caused by pets or deliberate damage by children under 
the age of 12. Acasta were originally of the understanding that Miss Ts child caused the 
damage by running into it whilst playing, they said this wasnt something that would be 
covered under the policy as it would be deemed accidental. 
Miss T has said this isnt what happened, there had been a misunderstanding when she 
wasnt present. She said she didnt know how the damage had occurred. 
As Acasta were originally informed it was damage caused by a child accidentally, I dont 
think it was unfair for them to rely on this when considering the claim. And given that 
accidental damage by a child isnt covered, they hadnt declined the claim unfairly.
I appreciate Miss T said there was a misunderstanding and thats not what happened but 
with no clear reason how the damage occurred Acasta have only been able to assess it 
based on the information provided. 
The information provided with the certificate of insurance said its essential you are able to 
identify and be specific about the cause of any damage or staining you are claiming for. So, 
I think they were clear what was required in the event of a claim. Given this, I dont think it 
was unfair of them to also conclude it wasnt an insured event as the cause of the damage 
was uncertain and wasnt attributed to anything that was covered under the policy.
Miss T was unhappy that Acasta didnt explain to her that deliberate damage by a child 
under 12 would be covered and she only became aware of this when she noticed it in the 
terms and conditions. As Acasta had determined it was her child who caused the damage, 
she feels it should therefore be covered. 
I dont think it was for Acasta to bring this term to Miss Ts attention. Theyve provided the full 
details of what is covered in the policy documentation and it was clear.
 
Miss T said Acasta were misinformed, she said her child didnt cause the damage. So in this 
case the term would therefore be irrelevant to the claim. And even if they were to have 
considered this term when assessing the claim, a child running into the sofa would be 
deemed accidental not deliberate so the claim would not have been covered regardless.
Overall, Im satisfied Acasta havent declined the claim unfairly based on the information 
available to them about the cause of the damage.
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman