DRN-3841689
The complaint
Mr B complains about his landlord insurance policy provider, Fairmead Insurance Limited, 
which he says has unfairly declined his claim for malicious damage to his property and loss 
of rent. References to Fairmead include its agents.
What happened
Mr B owns a property he rents out. He made a claim to Fairmead in December 2021 for 
damage to his property and loss of rent from a tenant that he said left the property in a 
terrible state. Mr B said the damage occurred after a notice was served on the tenant. Mr B 
listed all the damage together with photos, and valued his claim at £6,000.
Fairmead contacted Mr B and said it could review his claim under the Malicious Damage 
peril in his policy. Mr B said he had to wait until the end of January 2022 after a visit from 
Fairmeads loss adjuster to get a response. And he said the property lay empty, causing a 
loss of rental income.
Fairmead declined Mr Bs claim in January 2022. Its loss adjuster reported that the damage 
was due to normal wear and tear, and said all fixtures and fittings were in situ. The loss 
adjuster didnt consider the damage to be malicious.
Mr B said he had moved away from the area and hadnt visited the property since March 
2021, when he had no cause for concern about its condition. He thought any refurbishment 
could be carried out once the tenant left was just the result of normal wear and tear. He said 
the tenant promised to repaint and get the carpets cleaned professionally. 
Mr B said the photos hes provided show the tenant made pathetic attempts at repainting, 
causing more damage by spattering paint over the walls and the kitchen surfaces. He 
accepted this wasnt malicious, but other damage, such as a broken mirror and bathroom 
fittings, removal of light fittings and ripping out the curtain pole and curtain, cigarette burn on 
the bath, should be classed as malicious as this only occurred after the serving of the notice.
Mr B was disappointed by Fairmeads response saying the damage couldnt be anything 
other than malicious. He said the loss adjuster had highlighted things not included within the 
claim and failed to notice a broken mirror and shelf and missing and broken fittings. Mr B 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought the damage had been 
caused maliciously and should be recompensed to Mr B alongside his loss of rent. She said 
the policy doesnt cover council tax and so Fairmead didnt need to pay this.
Mr B accepted the view but said he would like the damaged kitchen hob and removal of 
rubbish left by the tenant to be covered as well. The investigator didnt think Mr B had shown 
that these were damaged maliciously. 
Fairmead disagreed with the investigator. It thought the damage was due to carelessness 
and a lack of maintenance and said the photos show the property in poor condition which 
supports that the damage is likely to have occurred gradually over a period of time and so 
isnt covered under the policy. Fairmead requested an ombudsman review Mr Bs complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B said he expects his landlords policy to cover him for any damage that contravenes the 
contract of tenancy. But this isnt how his policy or other landlord insurance policies work. 
They indemnify a policyholder for loss or damage only when this relates to a specified peril 
within the policy. In Mr Bs case the only possible coverage of the damage would be under 
the Malicious Damage or Accidental Damage perils in the policy.  
Mr Bs policy doesnt include coverage for Accidental Damage as some policies do, and so 
there was no claim available to him under this peril. Mr Bs policy does have cover for 
Malicious Damage, but doesnt define this, however I accept Mr Bs suggestion that this 
refers to a deliberate lack of respect for the property. 
In common with all other policies, Mr Bs excludes damage for wear and tear. The intention 
of the exclusion is to distinguish an indemnity for perils from a maintenance contract or one 
that might protect a landlord from any other breach of the tenancy agreement. As Mr B 
suggests, this is largely the role of the deposit and the policy states, we will not pay for any 
loss or damage that could be paid for by monies recoverable by you from your tenant(s) 
deposit. And so in answer to Mr Bs question as to whether he is insured against a lack of 
maintenance  no he is not. 
Its not always easy to distinguish malicious damage from wear and tear or accidental 
damage after the event, and as we arent property experts, we rely on the available evidence 
about this.
 
Ive looked at the photos Mr B has provided and the loss adjusters report. The latter states 
that all fixtures and fittings remain in situ. However, the report and photos show this not to be 
the case as items are clearly missing. The report states that damage is due to wear and tear 
and lack of maintenance. But I dont think a smashed mirror and a cracked washbasin fall 
into that category and I think the fair and reasonable assessment is that this was malicious. 
In terms of context for the damage, I have seen a copy of Mr Bs letter to his tenant which 
notifies the end of the tenancy and mentions damage to the property that the tenant must put 
right in order to secure his deposit. I have also seen a record of the complaints from the 
tenants neighbours and the police that led to this. I can understand that ending the tenancy 
would have caused friction between Mr B and his tenant and could have led to some 
malicious damage. 
Its a policyholders responsibility to prove their claim and this means they need to show that 
the policy should respond to the damage claimed. So far as the damage to the kitchen hob is 
concerned, I havent seen anything to show that this was the consequence of a malicious 
act. 
Mr Bs policy doesnt cover him for payment of council tax when the property is vacant, and 
he would have incurred this in any event and so Fairmead doesnt have to meet this cost. 
The policy also doesnt provide cover for the removal of rubbish. As Mr B has suggested, the 
cost of the deep clean, rubbish removal and redecorating, is covered by the tenant's deposit, 
which he has retained.But the policy does cover Mr B for loss of rent when loss or damage results from an insured 
peril. The policy states this will be payable for the period in which the property is unfit to live 
in. And so I think it would be reasonable for Fairmead to pay for Mr Bs loss of rent for the 
period in question. 
In conclusion, I agree with the investigator that Mr Bs property has suffered some damage 
reasonably described as malicious and Fairmead should respond to his claim by 
recompense for this and his loss of rent. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr B for the items in his property that he has 
listed as damaged or removed maliciously, and his loss of rent. This does not include 
damage to the kitchen hob or the work I have described as covered by the tenants deposit. 
I think Fairmead should add interest to its payment at 8% simple to recompense Mr B for the 
delayed access to this sum from the date it declined his claim in January 2022 to the date 
Fairmead make this payment to him.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman