DRN-3262133
The complaint
Mr M complains Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd unfairly declined his pet insurance claim 
when his dog was injured following an accident during a walk.
What happened
Mr M has a pet insurance for his dog W, which is underwritten by Building Block. 
The policy includes cover for accidental injury.
In February 2021, W was hit by a car when he left the recreation ground where he 
was being walked off the lead by Mr Ms wife and daughter.
W sustained serious injuries which required months of treatment. 
Mr M made a claim on his policy for the veterinary fees, but Building Block declined 
it. It said Mr M hadnt complied with the general policy conditions which required him 
to:
4. provide proper care and attention to [his] pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, injury or damage [].
5. comply with all laws that relate specifically to [his] pet  such as  Section 
27 of the Road Traffic Act 1988, which states that a dog that is on a 
designated road must be on a collar and lead and under control. 
6. ensure [his] dog is under control at all times, and due care should be 
maintained to prevent [his] dog from escaping and causing Accidental 
Injury to [his] dog or any other persons or animals.
Mr M disagreed. He said W was being walked in an area which is commonly used by 
dog walkers, and where W had been walked without a lead many times before. 
He explained the accident occurred approximately 200 meters away from his wife. 
So, he didnt think it was fair to say W was in the vicinity of a designated road and 
should therefore, have been on a lead. 
Building Block maintained its decision to decline the claim and so, Mr M brought his 
complaint to this service. 
An investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it, saying there wasnt 
enough evidence to show W was under control when the accident happened. 
Mr M disagreed, saying dogs are routinely let off leads and so, the policy should 
make it clear what under control means in these circumstances. 
The complaint was subsequently looked at by another investigator who upheld it. She 
was persuaded by Mr Ms testimony in which he explained the recreation ground was 
largely enclosed and that W was familiar with the grounds and had never tried to 
escape before. She also considered Ws veterinary notes which stated he was a well-
behaved dog. So, she thought W was under control at the time of the accident, and 
that Ws decision to pursue another dog out of the park was out of character and not 
something Ws owners could have reasonably foreseen.
Building Block disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Building Block has said W wasnt under control at the time of the incident, so Mr M hadnt 
therefore, complied with the policy terms and conditions. 
Policy term 5 says a dog that is on a designated road must be on a collar and lead and 
under control. From what Ive seen, I think it would be unreasonable to consider the 
recreation ground where W was being walked as a designated road because its a large 
open green space. So, Im not persuaded this policy term is applicable in the circumstances.  
Turning to policy condition 4  this requires Mr M to provide proper care and attention and 
take all reasonable precautions to prevent accidents or injury. And policy condition 6 
requires that Mr M ensure his dog is under control and that due care should be 
maintained to prevent a dog from escaping.  These arent defined in the policy, but 
essentially, for Building Block to rely on these conditions, it needs to demonstrate that Mr M 
didnt show reasonable care on the day of Ws accident.
If an insurer declines a claim because the consumer failed to take reasonable care, there 
needs to be evidence to show the consumer acted in a way that amounted to recklessness. 
In determining this, we use the test of recklessness set out in the leading legal case on 
reasonable care  Sofi v Prudential Assurance (1993) 2 Lloyds Rep.559.  Here, it was 
decided that in order for an insurer to show a policyholder was in breach of the policy 
condition that requires them to take reasonable care, the insurer needs to show the 
policyholder was reckless  in other words, that they recognised the risk, but took either no 
or inadequate measures to avert the risk. 
Mr M says he took reasonable care and used his reasonable judgment to decide W was in a 
safe environment to be walked without a lead and that he didnt consider there to be a risk of 
accident. From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Building Block has demonstrated Mr M 
didnt exercise reasonable care, and Ill explain why.
Ws age, behaviour, and temperament
W was 7 years old at the time of the accident and according to Mr M, had never run off 
before whilst walking off the lead. Mr M has spoken about Ws excellent recall and this is 
supported by the Vet who treated W, who said:
Whilst treating [W] for his injuries [] Ws behaviour has been such that I would trust 
him when off-lead (appropriate recall, behaviour with other people and behaviour with 
other animals).
I find the vets testimony particularly persuasive given their experience and the amount of 
time theyd spent with W. This, coupled with the fact W was an older dog (who unlike a 
puppy wouldnt still be learning recall skills) who had been walked at the recreation ground 
for many years and had never run off before, persuades me that Mr Ms judgment that he 
had no reason to believe W wasnt under control, was a reasonable one.
Location Ive already explained why I dont think policy condition 5 applies in the circumstances, as I 
dont think its reasonable to deem the recreation ground a designated road. 
I have however, looked at the recreation ground to determine whether it was reasonable for 
Mr M to judge it a safe environment for W to be walked off the lead.  From looking at online 
images, I can see its a large open space  of approximately 5.5 acres - which is partially 
enclosed. There are residential roads to the east, west and, north side. The south perimeter 
backs on to residential gardens  this boundary is closest to the road where W was injured 
by a car.
Mr M has explained that the condition of one of the residential roads is poor  stating that 
pots holes prevent traffic from driving along it, unless very slowly. And his description tallies 
with what Ive been able to see from online images. 
Given the size of the recreation ground and that the roads nearest the grounds are 
residential with light traffic, I dont think it was reasonable to have expected Mr M to have 
foreseen that W might be injured by a car on a main road which is not adjacent to the 
grounds.
Owners proximity to W 
Mr M has explained that at the time W exited the recreation ground W was approximately 
200 metres from his wife and daughter, but that W remained in their line of sight. But that 
when it became apparent W wasnt responding to his owners commands, Mr Ms daughter 
ran after W. I have no reason to doubt this version of events. The photographs Ive seen 
show that there werent any visual obstructions between where Mr Ms wife and daughter 
were standing to where W exited the grounds. And Mr Ms daughter running after W satisfies 
me that they did act with due care to try and prevent injury.  
On balance, Im not persuaded Building Blocks has demonstrated the accident occurred 
because Ws owners hadnt taken reasonable precautions or care of him, or that W wasnt 
under control. W being off the lead, doesnt mean he wasnt under control. So, it should pay 
the treatment fees up to the policy limit.
Distress and inconvenience 
Understandably, Ws accident was a traumatic event for Mr M and his family to experience. 
When considering whether compensation is warranted, what I have to consider is whether 
Mr M experienced distress and inconvenience which went beyond what would be reasonably 
expected in a claim such as this and which was attributable to Building Blocks actions. 
Mr M has said that throughout treatment he was told by Building Blocks that it would be 
covered up to the policy maximum benefit. I understand that Mr M had this impression, 
however, claims handlers wouldnt be able to determine the outcome of the claim, and Im 
not persuaded they gave mis-leading advice or certainty the claim would be paid.
Mr M has also said that Building Blocks took longer than eight weeks to reply to his 
complaint. Mr M told us he complained to the insurer on 8 April 2021  so it had until 3 June 
2021 to respond to him. I can see its final response letter is dated 1 June 2021, so I cant 
agree it took longer than the time its afforded. 
I dont doubt this has been a distressing experience for Mr M, I understand seeing a pet in 
such a condition must have been extremely concerning for him. While I acknowledge Building Block declining the claim would have been disappointing, Im not persuaded this 
exacerbated this difficult time to an extent that I would look to award compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd must pay Mr M the vet fees up to 
the policy limit (subject to proof of costs). If Mr M has already paid the vet fees interest* must 
be added at 8% a year from the date he paid the fees to the day of settlement. 
*If Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman