DRN-4142328
The complaint
Miss K, a sole trader, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC consider her liable to repay a 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) that she says was taken out fraudulently in her name without her 
knowledge.
What happened
In January 2023, Miss K received a letter from Lloyds which said she was liable to repay a 
£50,000 BBL that had been taken in her name in June 2020. Miss K contacted Lloyds and 
said that shed never applied for a BBL or received any BBL funds. Miss K also said that 
shed previously been in an abusive relationship and that she believed it was her ex-partner 
 who had access to her Lloyds accounts at that time  who had fraudulently applied for the 
BBL in her name.
Lloyds responded to Miss K but felt that it was reasonable to believe that Miss K had known 
about the BBL application and the BBL funds. However, Lloyds explained that they would 
consider not chasing Miss K for the outstanding BBL balance if Miss K could provide a police 
report confirming that Miss Ks ex-partner was being investigated by the police for fraud. 
Miss K wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to believe that Miss K had been aware of the BBL, and so they didnt feel that Lloyds 
had acted unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Miss K remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I feel its important to confirm that it isnt within the remit of this service to 
decide whether fraud has or hasnt taken place here. Such a decision would be for a Court of 
Law to make. Instead, my remit here is limited to deciding whether I feel Lloyds continuing to 
consider Miss K liable to repay the BBL is reasonable. And whether Lloyds requiring a police 
report confirming that Miss Ks ex-partner is being formally investigated for potential fraud 
before considering suspending any recovery action against Miss K is fair.  
This isnt to say that Im not mindful of the emotive nature of the events that Miss K has 
described as taking place here. And I can confirm that this service considers any allegation 
of fraud undertaken by an abusive partner with the utmost seriousness. But it is to say that, 
as an impartial party, Im duty bound to consider the positions of both Miss K and Lloyds 
when arriving at my decision here.
Accordingly, given that this is a complaint against Lloyds, Ive thought first about whether its 
reasonable for Lloyds to believe Miss K was most likely aware of the BBL application 
undertaken in her name and the receipt of the BBL funds. And having done so, I do feel its 
reasonable for Lloyds to believe that Miss K was most likely aware of the BBL application 
and the receipt of the BBL funds. 
There are several reasons for this. These include that the BBL was applied for in 2020 using 
an email address which Miss K continued to list with Lloyds as being her contact email up to 
the point that she raised her complaint with them in January 2023. Notably, the BBL facility 
letter and terms and conditions were sent by Lloyds to this email address following the 
successful BBL application. And so, I feel its reasonable for Lloyds to believe that Miss K 
would have had access to this email address and thus the BBL correspondence that they 
sent to it, given that she maintained that email address with them for several years. 
Additionally, following the receipt of the £50,000 BBL funds into a business current account 
held in Miss Ks name, £15,000 of those funds were then transferred into a personal current 
account in Miss Ks name. 
Miss K has explained that this transfer was also undertaken without her knowledge by her 
ex-partner, who had access to her accounts. But Lloyds have been able to demonstrate that, 
at that time the transfer was made, Miss Ks business and personal accounts were also 
logged into, and that the accounts were accessed using a device that had been regularly 
associated with Miss Ks personal current account since 2019. And I feel its reasonable for 
Lloyds to conclude from this information that it was most likely Miss K who logged into her 
accounts using the device she regularly used to do so.
It also must be noted that Lloyds have explained to Miss K that they might be willing to 
consider her as not being liable for the outstanding balance, but that they require a copy of a 
police report confirming that Miss Ks ex-partner is being formally investigated by the police 
for fraud before they might consider doing so. 
Lloyds position on this matter seems reasonable to me. This is because, ultimately, 
someone is liable to repay the money that Lloyds have lent here. And if Miss K believes that 
its her ex-partner who should be liable to repay this money, then it seems highly likely from 
the available evidence  including Miss Ks own testimony  that her ex-partner has acted 
illegally in applying for and obtaining that money. 
In such circumstances, I feel its reasonable for Lloyds to require evidence that the police are 
actively investigating Miss Ks ex-partner for potential fraud before Lloyds themselves 
consider shifting the focus of their recovery efforts away from Miss K to her ex-partner.
All of which isnt to say that Miss Ks partner didnt fraudulently apply for the BBL without 
Miss Ks knowledge. But it is to say that I dont feel Lloyds are acting unfairly by continuing to 
consider Miss K liable to repay the outstanding BBL balance at this time, based on the 
information they have available to them and the lack of a police report as theyve requested.   
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss K was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any action. I hope that Miss K will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. And I 
can only encourage Miss K to work with Lloyds, in accordance with their requirements, if she 
wants them to consider her ex-partner to be liable for the outstanding balance.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman