DRN-3727628
The complaint
Mr M and Mr T complained that their home insurance policy was unfairly cancelled by QIC 
Europe Ltd (QIC).
What happened
Mr M and Mr T were having some work done at their house, which included changing some 
old wooden sash windows and old wooden conservatory with modern UPVC double glazed 
windows. Being prudent, Mr M and Mr T contacted QIC to inform it about the works. 
Following QICs request, Mr M and Mr T submitted a building work questionnaire.
Once QIC reviewed the answers provided on the questionnaire, it informed Mr M and Mr T 
that the works fell outside of [its] underwriting acceptance criteria and subsequently 
requested for [their] Home Insurance policy to be cancelled back to the start of the building 
works, and refund any premiums taken since the start of the building works.
Mr M and Mr T were unhappy with this outcome. They felt it was unfair. Mr M and Mr T felt 
the works were within scope of the policy. They also thought the backdated cancellation of 
the policy was too extreme and thought QIC shouldve still covered their property, even if it 
had to exclude any potential damage caused by the works.
Mr M and Mr T had to find alternative cover, which Mr M and Mr T said cost £170 more as 
they were making an emergency purchase which commanded a higher price. They want to 
be compensated for the distress of not having insurance for two weeks and the 
inconvenience and cost for arranging the new cover. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought QIC had cancelled the 
policy in line with the terms and conditions. He thought QIC had shown that due to the cost 
of the works it wouldnt have been able to insure the property whilst the works were 
completed. Mr M and Mr T disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC cancelled Mr M and Mr Ts policy once it became aware they were having works 
completed that fell outside of its underwriting criteria. So, I have considered whether I think it 
was fair to do this. I think it was. I know this will disappoint Mr M and Mr T, but Ill explain 
why I think this.
When providing cover to customers, insurers make commercial decisions on the level of risk 
they are prepared to take in providing them cover  this is done in two ways. Firstly, it will 
decide which circumstances it will offer cover in, this is set out in its underwriting criteria 
(which an insurer will apply by asking customers specific questions when taking out 
insurance). Secondly, it will limit its liability in certain areas which is set out in in the terms 
and conditions of the policy. In return for covering this risk via the insurance policy, the 
insurer will ask the customer to pay a premium. These policies are then bought by 
customers in a competitive insurance market.
Mr M and Mr T bought the policy from QIC via a comparison website. In completing the 
application, they provided information on their insurance needs and QIC decided it was 
willing to offer them insurance cover at a certain price. Mr M and Mr T accepted QICs offer.
After inception, Mr M and Mr T contacted QIC to inform it they were having the work done, 
which triggered a process. The information provided by Mr M and Mr T showed that they 
were having work completed on their home which had an aggregated cost of around 
£60,000. This led to QIC deciding it was no longer willing to provide cover to Mr M and Mr T 
as it felt their circumstances had changed significantly and the risk presented in providing 
cover was too high.
I have looked at QICs reasoning for this. They said:
the underwriters were able to confirm that the costs associated with the scope of works fell 
outside of their [underwriting] acceptance criteria
There are multiple reasons why the insurers are unable to cover building works, in your 
case, the key reason that your insurer was unable to continue to offer cover was due to the 
costs of the scope of the works being undertaken. Large building or complex projects would 
require more specialist insurance which would include protection for you as the customer 
against damages caused to your property as a result of the building works.
QIC have provided its underwriting criteria. I cant share this as its commercially sensitive, 
but rest assured I have checked it carefully. I can confirm had QIC known about the works 
when Mr M and Mr T took out the policy it wouldnt have offered them insurance cover. It 
wouldve done the same for any other customer in the same position.
Mr M and Mr T didnt know for sure they were undertaking the works when they took out the 
policy, so QIC based its decision on offering cover using the information it had at the time. 
However, when it became aware of the new information, it decided to cancel the policy. As 
the new information meant Mr M and Mr T didnt meet QICs underwriting criteria. I think it 
was reasonable for QIC to treat this as a significant change in Mr M and Mr Ts 
circumstances and therefore, the risk it was taking on.
Ive therefore considered whether QIC has acted fairly and in line with its terms and 
conditions once it knew about this significant change. QIC said Your insurer also requests 
that you inform them of any changes to your circumstances or your property throughout the 
term of your policy, and should a change occur, that change would require approval from the 
insurers underwriters. I have checked the policy to ensure it clearly sets out this process.
The policy states:
you must tell us about any changes to the answers you gave us when taking out this policy 
and any changes in your circumstances which happen during the period of insurance. It is 
important that you tell us about a change before it happens or as soon as you know about it.
It gives an example of a change as:
if you are having any building work doneyou must tell us about the work at least 30 days 
before it starts. It goes on to explain this is not a complete list and you should contact us if 
you are not sure whether a change of circumstances may affect your policy.The policy sets out what might happen when a change happens when you tell us about a 
change we will let you know if it will affect your insurance. For example, we may change the 
terms of your insurance, you may have to pay more for your insurance, or we may cancel 
your insurance.
I think the policy is clear that a significant change in circumstances could have an impact on 
the cover that has been provided and it has set out it could result in the cancelling of the 
policy. As the change was a significant one and meant Mr M and Mr T no longer met QICs 
underwriting criteria, I think QIC was fair to cancel the policy.
Mr M and Mr T has argued that the work they were having completed was maintenance 
works and they said the policy didnt set any cost thresholds for work being carried out. They 
discussed the work as three projects rather than one large one. Unfortunately, I dont think 
this matters. The fact was the work was a significant change and it altered the risk of 
providing cover. So, under the policy QIC had the right to re-consider whether it wanted to 
provide the cover in the new circumstances. It has acted in line with its underwriting criteria. 
So, I dont think QIC has treated Mr M and Mr T differently to how it might have treated any 
other customer in similar circumstances. I wouldnt have expected QIC to share its 
underwriting criteria with its customers during the sales journey, as its commercially 
sensitive. 
As QIC set out in its policy, it required Mr M and Mr T to provide 30 days notice ahead of 
any building works. As this wasnt provided, it backdated the cancellation to the start of the 
building works (which is when the risk of offering cover changed). The policy does clearly set 
out this requirement for building works  so whether this was works for maintenance work, 
improvement work or for an extension etc, I dont think its important. I think the policy was 
reasonably clear what the requirement was. 
Therefore, I think QIC has been fair in backdating the cancellation to the date it did. If Mr M 
and Mr T had notified QIC in advance as the policy set out, I dont think they wouldve been 
so distressed in finding alternative insurance cover as they wouldve had longer to arrange it. 
Therefore, I dont think it would be fair to ask QIC to compensate them for this.
Im pleased QIC has refunded Mr M and Mr T their premiums for the unused part of the 
policy period. This is what I wouldve expected. I think QIC has also been pragmatic in not 
recording the cancellation on any industry databases  thereby it has not penalised Mr M 
and Mr T when they have sought out new cover. I think this is fair.
In summary, I think QIC has acted in line with its terms and conditions and underwriting 
criteria  therefore, I dont uphold this complaint. I think it has acted fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require QIC Europe Ltd to do 
anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman