DRN-2189539
Complaint
Mr V complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc is holding him liable for a loan that he says he 
didnt take out.
Background
In April 2019, a loan of approximately £9,000 was taken out in Mr Vs name. The loan was 
arranged via an intermediary and was used to finance the purchase of a luxury watch. A 
direct debit was put in place to collect monthly repayments from Mr Vs current account. The 
watch was only partially paid for using the loan  a deposit also had to be paid up front. This 
was paid using Mr Vs debit card. 
Mr V contacted Hitachi in May 2019 to tell it that he wasnt responsible for the application. 
He said that some of the details on the loan application (his email address, phone number 
and occupation) were wrong.
 
Hitachi said it wouldnt treat the application as fraudulent. It said it had evidence to show that 
the transaction was completed using his card details, the goods were delivered to his home 
address and signed for and that a copy of Mr Vs driving licence was provided to the retailer 
as proof of identification.
Mr V was unhappy that Hitachi was still holding him liable for the repayments and so he 
referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. 
He was persuaded by the evidence submitted by Hitachi that it was unlikely the loan was 
taken out by an unauthorised third party.
Mr V disagreed with the investigators view. He said that another loan had been taken out 
with a different business which had agreed that he was the victim of identity theft. He also 
said that there were fraudulent transactions on two debit cards he held with other businesses 
which were refunded. Finally, he said that a member of his family was also a victim of fraud 
around the same time and he thinks there might have been a connection.
Because Mr V disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. Its impossible for me to know with complete certainty what happened 
here. And in cases where the evidence is unclear or contradictory, I must reach a decision 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I need to consider whether its more likely 
than not that Mr V agreed to take out this loan or authorised another person to do so in his 
name. 
From the evidence Ive seen, I think its unlikely that this loan application was made without 
Mr Vs involvement, at least to some degree. I say that because:
The person who made the application must have known the details of Mr Vs current 
account and his debit card in order to submit them as part of the application. Mr V 
told the investigator that his debit card is kept in his wallet and it hadnt been out of 
his possession throughout this period. I cant find any plausible explanation as to how 
an opportunistic fraudster couldve obtained Mr Vs details without his knowledge.
The person who made the application was able to submit a photograph of Mr Vs 
driving licence as part of the application process. Mr V told the investigator that his 
driving licence wasnt lost or misplaced during this time. For the same reasons as Ive 
outlined above, there doesnt appear to be any way that a fraudster couldve obtained 
a copy of his driving licence without Mr Vs knowledge.
At the time of the application, Mr V was living with several members of his family. His 
wallet wouldve been left unattended from time to time in his home, but it was only 
those other family members that wouldve had access to it. He told the investigator 
that hes sure that no member of his family was responsible for the application. 
The retailer has submitted evidence from the courier to show that the watch was 
delivered to Mr Vs home address and signed for. I cant say for sure that the 
signature taken at the time of delivery is Mr Vs  but I find it unlikely that a fraudster 
wouldve been able to intercept a delivery of the goods.
I understand Mr Vs current account provider agreed to refund the deposit he paid using his 
debit card. Mr V has argued that, if that business was willing to treat the payment as 
fraudulent, Hitachi should do likewise. I cant comment on what motivated Mr Vs bank to 
refund the payment.
 
However, the weight of the evidence here does strongly suggest that either Mr V took out 
this loan himself or that he was involved in authorising another person to do so. Im sorry to 
have to disappoint Mr V, but I think its reasonable for Hitachi to hold him liable for the loan.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman