DRN-1510073
The complaint
Miss O complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a 
burglary claim under her residential property insurance.
What happened
Miss O had insurance with LV on a property she rented out. Towards the end of the tenancy, 
the tenant left the property and returned the keys to the letting agent. Three days later, the 
agent attended the property and found the boiler, six radiators and some pipes had been 
removed from the property. It was noted the doors were locked (with the key still inside the 
back door), the kitchen window was smashed and a back-bedroom window on the first floor 
was open, with no evidence of it having been forced.
Miss O claimed for damage to the property and the stolen items. But LV declined the claim, 
explaining the policy excluded damage caused by a tenant or their family occupying the 
building or portion of any building for residential purposes. Having initially thought the tenant 
could be responsible, Miss O argued they had denied any wrongdoing and hadnt been 
charged with an offence.
But LV maintained the tenant was the most likely suspect, and its decision to decline the 
claim. It stated that at the time of the break-in the doors must have been locked, and there 
were no signs of forced entry other than the kitchen window measuring 450mm high and 
700mm wide, which wasnt large enough for a person, or the stolen items, to fit through.
It said the photo of the kitchen window showed it was likely broken from the inside as there 
were fragments of glass outside the property, with only two pieces of glass found on the 
inside window sill. It argued that if the window had been broken from the outside, there 
would have been more glass on the window sill and kitchen floor. It also noted there were 
several keys in the window sill, but none in the window lock arguing this meant it could 
dismiss the possibility the window was smashed from the outside and somebody had 
reached in to release the lock from within. It also said that if the back window was left open it 
would mean there was no forcible entry. 
Miss O complained to this service arguing the kitchen window had been broken, indicating 
entry had been gained by forcible and violent means. She said the bedroom window served 
as a fire escape and was big enough to be used as an exit point and wide enough for the 
boiler and radiators to be taken out.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He noted LV had relied on the fact 
 Miss O had originally believed the tenants had been responsible and there was no forced 
entry. But he felt it was possible entry had been gained through the kitchen window and that 
LV hadnt properly considered this. He felt LV had relied on a photo of the broken kitchen 
window which he didnt accept showed it was broken from the inside.
He said even though LV had produced measurements for the kitchen window, there was no 
evidence of how wide it would open, so he wasnt satisfied LV had shown a person couldnt 
get through it. Further, he thought it was possible the stolen items had been taken out through the back window, noting it served as a fire escape, so it was big enough for a person 
to fit through. He concluded it was possible the kitchen window was used to gain entry and 
the back window was used as an exit point, therefore, he didnt think LV had shown there 
was no forced entry and the claim had been fairly excluded. Consequently, he 
recommended it should settle the claim.
LV has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excludes damage caused by a tenant or their family occupying the building or 
portion of any building for residential purposes. Ive considered whether theres evidence the 
damage was caused by the tenants and I dont consider there is. The fact Miss O initially 
thought thats what might have happened doesnt mean it is what happened. The tenants 
denied any wrongdoing and they werent charged by the police. I accept the standard of 
proof is different, but, in the absence of any other evidence the tenants were responsible for 
the theft, Im not satisfied it would have been fair to apply this exclusion.
LV ultimately declined the claim based on the fact all the doors were locked and there was 
no evidence of entry to the property via forcible and violent means. It said that even though 
it had been smashed, the kitchen window was too small to have been used to gain entry to 
the property. But I dont accept LV has shown the kitchen window was too small for a person 
(or indeed a child) to fit through, and in the absence of such evidence, Im not satisfied its 
shown it wasnt used to gain entry to the premises. 
LV also argued there was more glass outside than on the inside window sill, showing it was 
smashed from the inside. I accept this might suggest it was broken from the inside, but the 
presence of keys on the window sill would have attracted thieves to the vacant property and 
LV hasnt given a reasonable explanation as to why and when the kitchen window was 
smashed from the inside. I also find it questionable that the tenant would bother to give the 
keys to the estate agent if theyd stolen or intended to steal from the property. In these 
circumstances Im satisfied its more likely than not that the window was smashed from the 
outside and used to gain entry to the property
I dont know how the stolen items were removed, but Im satisfied they would probably have 
fit through the back window and LV hasnt produced any evidence to show that wasnt 
possible. LVs loss adjuster said the theft was committed by someone who must have had a 
key, but I dont think this conclusion took proper account of the fact the kitchen window had 
been smashed and constituted strong evidence that entry had been gained by forcible and 
violent means. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied Miss O has shown she had a valid claim. And having considered the arguments 
LV has put forward, Im not persuaded its shown its unlikely the kitchen window was 
smashed and used to gain entry. Therefore, Im not satisfied its shown the claim was fairly 
declined. Consequently, I think its decision to decline the claim was unfair and it should now 
settle the claim. 
Finally, I think LV should pay Miss O £100 compensation for its poor handling of the claim 
including the fact Miss O had to chase it for responses to her enquiries and letters were sent 
to the wrong address.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to:
settle the claim. This is to include a payment of 8% simple interest* from the date of 
the claim.
pay Miss O £100 compensation*. 
 
The compensation is to be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited Miss O accepts my final decision (if she does). If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment, at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to take 
off tax from this interest, they must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
taken off if she asks for one. She may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities 
if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman