DRN-3599110
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax UK (Halifax) wrongly advised 
him that he could get his money back if he paid for a holiday on his credit card. He would like 
Halifax to refund him the £200 cost of accommodation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Gs frustration; he paid and had a holiday that he says didnt match 
his expectations.  He says Halifax advised him that if he paid for a holiday on his 
credit card he would be covered if there were any issues. I dont think Halifax 
misinformed Mr G as paying by credit card does offer some protection under both  
the Chargeback Scheme and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. However, 
Halifax may not have made it clear that such protection isnt guaranteed .Halifax paid 
Mr G £80 compensation for its poor service as well as £2 postage costs Mr G 
incurred when retrieving an unstamped letter from Halifax. I think this was fair.
Halifax did consider a chargeback claim for Mr G but  was unable to pursue this as 
Mr G did get  the flights and accommodation he paid for. And it said it couldnt assist 
with  the closure of some hotel services due to unexpected circumstances.  I 
appreciate Mr Gs concerns were around the location and facilities in the hotel.  But 
he hasnt provided any evidence of what he booked and how that differed from what 
he got which he would need to do for any claim. So, based on the information Halifax 
had, and the relevant scheme rules I think Halifaxs decision not to pursue a 
chargeback claim was reasonable.
I am pleased to note  that Halifax did suggest a possible Section 75 claim as another 
means for Mr G to try to recoup some or all his accommodation costs. And it is still 
willing to help Mr G with this. But again, Halifax  would need evidence to support a 
claim. I know that Mr G finds that unreasonable but to be fair to both parties  the 
consumer and the merchant - evidence is needed for any claims. Its not reasonable 
to accept one parties word without evidence from both sides.
I dont think its reasonable to ask Halifax to refund Mr G the £200 cost of 
accommodation he has asked for. Halifax hasnt been able to purse a chargeback 
request as Mr G did get the flight and accommodation he paid for. It has offered to 
help with a Section 75 claim if Mr G provides the information for it to do so which I 
think is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman