DRN-4366879
The complaint
Mr H complains about how American International Group UK Limited trading as AIG UK 
handled his mobile phone insurance claim and that it wont refund the policy premiums. My 
references to AIG include its agent which is the business that handled Mr Hs claim.
What happened
Mr H has insurance for his mobile phone through a Tech Pack that is provided through his 
package bank account. The policy insurer is AIG.
When Mr Hs mobile phone became faulty he made a claim to AIG. It accepted the claim and 
sent him a replacement phone which was faulty. Mr H said from September to 
November 2022 AIG sent him four faulty phones in settlement of his claim.
AIG accepted the replacement phones were faulty and paid compensation for Mr Hs 
distress and inconvenience of £55, £70 and £35. The compensation payments included 
refunding Mr H £10 for the screen protector he bought for one of the faulty replacement 
phones. AIG said Mr H should complain to the bank if he wanted the policy premiums repaid.
Mr H complained to us. He said each time a replacement phone was delivered to him he had 
to take time off work to wait for the phone and spent two to four hours setting up the phones 
which then didnt work properly. As he was fed up getting faulty phones hed bought a new 
phone. He wants AIG to collect the last faulty phone it sent him and return the policy 
premiums.
One of our investigators said AIG should replace the last faulty phone it sent Mr H and pay a 
further £65 in compensation for Mr Hs additional stress and inconvenience caused by 
another faulty phone. But he said whether any premiums should be refunded was a matter 
for the bank as the policy was part of the overall benefits from Mr Hs package bank account.
AIG agreed with the investigators recommendation.
Mr H made a separate complaint to us about the banks handling of the claim and the banks 
refusal to refund the policy premiums. One of my ombudsman colleagues made a final 
decision on that complaint which said the bank wasnt responsible for handling the claim and 
the bank didnt need to refund any premiums to Mr H.
Mr H wanted an ombudsmans decision on his complaint about AIG. He said our decision 
about the bank contradicted what the investigator told him in this complaint about AIG.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was partly upholding the complaint. I said:
Its important for me to set out which business is responsible for the issues Mr H has 
complained to us about in this complaint.
Page 10 of the Tech Pack, under the heading policy documents says:
AIG UK .have appointed (business beginning with L) to act on Our behalf as Our 
agent to help Us administer Your Policy and claims...
So the policy terms says AIG, as the insurer, is responsible for administering and handling 
claims through its agent L.
Page 26 of the Tech Pack sets out the arrangements for the policy premium. Under the 
heading About our insurance services it says that we, refers to the bank and, on the same 
page of the Tech Pack, under the heading Statement of price it says:
We hold the insurance premium you pay to us, and any premium refunds payable to 
you, in respect of the insurance products included in the Tech Pack as agent of 
American International Group UK.
That means the bank holds the policy premiums as agent on behalf of and for AIG. So any 
decision by us about whether or not the policy premiums should be refunded to Mr H needs 
to be against AIG.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im intending to say that AIG should pay Mr H further compensation of £65 for his distress 
and inconvenience, as its now agreed. But it doesnt need to refund the premiums to Mr H. 
Ill explain why.
Although there will usually be some inconvenience when a faulty phone has to be replaced 
its clear that Mr H has been unreasonably inconvenienced and stressed by the four faulty 
replacement phones AIG sent him to settle his claim. Hes had to take time off work to wait 
for the phones to be delivered, taken time to set up phones which are then faulty and had to 
deal with AIG to sort out the issue.
I dont think the £160 compensation AIG paid Mr H is enough to reflect the inconvenience 
hes had due to its errors. I think an additional payment of £65 as our investigator 
recommended, so £225 compensation in total, is a reasonable amount and AIG now agrees.
The issue of whether AIG should refund Mr H his policy premiums is a separate issue, not 
related to his distress and inconvenience.
AIG provided cover to Mr H under the policy while he had the policy. Even if Mr H made no 
previous claims under this policy, the policy covered his phone and gadgets in line with the 
policy terms. When Mr H made this claim for his faulty original mobile phone AIG replaced 
the phone in line with the policy terms. The four replacement phones were faulty and Mr Hs 
inconvenience and stress associated with that is why AIG needs to pay Mr H compensation, 
as Ive detailed above. But the cover under the policy was still there. AIG wants to send Mr H 
another replacement phone, as set out under the policy cover, in return for the faulty phone 
he still has.
I understand why Mr H has chosen to buy a new mobile phone and doesnt want AIG to 
replace the faulty phone it sent him. If Mr H still wants to return the faulty phone without AIG 
providing another replacement he can do so. But that doesnt mean AIG has to refund the 
policy premiums. AIG has covered Mr Hs phones and gadgets for the period the policy has 
been in place.Theres no basis for me to say that AIG has to refund the policy premiums.
Responses to my provisional decision
AIG said it had nothing to add. Mr H said £225 wasnt enough compensation to reflect his 
inconvenience due to the four faulty phones in two months. And, contrary to what AIG had 
told us, it had recently told him it couldnt replace the faulty phone as it didnt have the model 
in stock. He said he had to travel to get the phone repaired, which was more inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIG wouldnt know what stock it would hold at the time Mr H contacted it to replace the faulty 
phone. But if Mr H wants to pursue the additional inconvenience he says hes had in having 
to travel to get the faulty phone repaired as AIG couldnt replace it with the same model 
thats a new matter. Mr H will need to raise a new separate complaint with AIG about that 
matter. If the parties cant agree he can make a separate complaint to us. I havent 
considered the new matter as part of this decision.
As to Mr Hs distress and inconvenience due to the issues with AIGs claim handling that 
I have considered, set out in my provisional decision above, Im satisfied that AIG paying 
Mr H a total of £225 compensation is a reasonable amount for the reasons I set out above. 
And for the reasons I set out above theres no basis for me to say that AIG has to refund the 
policy premiums.
Putting things right
AIG must pay Mr H a further £65 compensation, so £225 compensation in total, for his 
distress and inconvenience in its handling of his claim, as its now agreed.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require American International Group UK Limited trading 
as AIG UK to pay Mr H a further £65 compensation, so £225 compensation in total, for his 
distress and inconvenience in its handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman