DRN-2853595
The complaint
Mr G complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr G took out three Lending Stream loans as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest Monthly 
Repayment
1 30/11/2016 03/12/2016 6 £520.00 £207.60
2 05/12/2016 09/12/2016 6 £700.00 £336.00
3 06/05/2017 Sold to 
Third Party6 £450.00 £205.20
Mr G said (in summary) that Lending Stream provided loans that were unaffordable and he 
was borrowing more to get through the months and unable to repay loans given the 
vulnerable position he was in. He felt that whilst Mr Lender may not have known the first loan 
was unaffordable the timeframe in which the 3 loans were taken and the amount increasing 
on the 2nd one meant the lending was irresponsible. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr G and Lending Stream told us about these loans.  
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Gs circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr G for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. Our adjudicator didnt think Lending Stream had any information which 
shouldve prompted it to check what Mr G had said in his loan applications. Or that the 
number of loans Mr G had taken out, the amounts hed borrowed or the length of time hed 
been borrowing from Lending Stream shouldve alerted Lending Stream to think he was 
having money problems. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. He still felt that the main issue was affordability as he told us he had bank 
statements and a credit report to show his other credit held elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. After looking at the complaint afresh, Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
Lending Stream provided Mr G with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr G before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
I do appreciate that Mr G feels strongly that Lending Stream shouldve realised he couldnt 
afford further loans  especially by the time he was applying for loan 2 when he asked for a 
bigger loan after paying loan 1 early  and after paying loan 2 early before taking out loan 3. 
Lending Stream told us it agreed to Mr Gs applications after carrying out affordability checks 
and it relied on information Mr G provided about his monthly income and expenditure and 
the results of credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Mr G and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was broadly entitled to 
rely on the information Mr G provided. From what I can see, Mr G declared his income as 
£1300 and told Lending Stream that his regular monthly expenditure was £525. On the 
information that it appears Lending Stream gathered for this loan, it looked like Mr G should 
have around £712 money left after paying his monthly outgoings  so he should have had 
ample disposable income left over to cover the cost of the monthly repayments on this loan.
At this early stage, Mr G didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. 
Ive seen a summary of Lending Streams credit checks for this loan. And I cant see that the 
results of Lending Streams credit checks identified any matters that wouldve concerned a 
responsible lender. 
There werent any particular indicators of potential financial difficulty flagged up. Lending 
Stream could see its check showed that Mr G had nine other active credit accounts. But 
I dont think that was an unreasonable number of accounts for someone in Mr Gs financial 
situation. And bearing in mind that applicants for credit of this type often have other lending 
I dont think Lending Stream gathered any information that makes me think it shouldve either been prompted to do more checks before lending or take steps to verify what Mr G 
had said about his financial situation. 
So this is why Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about loan 1. 
loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mr G took out loan 2 just a couple of days after he paid loan 1 
early - and he took out a bigger loan this time. But I dont think Lending Stream wouldve had 
any reason to think that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr G  even 
allowing for the fact that hed now be making bigger monthly repayments.
It seems Mr Gs declared income had gone up to £1400 and it appears he told Lending 
Stream that his monthly costs were £550. I think those figures wouldve looked reasonable to 
Lending Stream based on the information it had gathered. Its credit checks returned the 
same information Lending Stream had seen when it provided loan 1. 
As Lending Stream worked out that Mr Gs disposable income would be around £740 I think 
its fair to say that Lending Stream was reasonably entitled to think that loan 2 would be 
sustainably affordable for Mr G. 
Mr G hadnt shown any signs that hed found it hard to pay for loan 1. The figures hed 
declared when he applied for this loan, and the information Lending Stream had collected, 
seem to me to support Lending Streams lending decision. So Im not upholding Mr Gs 
complaint about loan 2. 
loan 3
Mr G repaid loan 2 within just a few days of taking it out  and Im mindful that hed done this 
before when he paid loan 1 shortly after starting it. But I dont think this was enough for me 
fairly to say Lending Stream shouldve been alerted to potential money problems. I say this 
because Mr G was now reducing the amount of his borrowing  loan 3 was the smallest loan 
he asked to borrow from Lending Stream. And there had also been four clear months 
between Mr G paying loan 2 and asking for loan 3  so I dont think that made it look like he 
was depending on taking new borrowing to repay other loans. 
The information Lending Stream gathered showed that loan 3 shouldve been sustainably 
affordable for Mr G. His income and expenditure was broadly unchanged  he had slightly 
less disposable income than previously but the monthly repayments on this loan were a lot 
less. 
The credit checks Lending Stream carried out now showed that there had been a payment 
problem within the previous month on one of his nine credit accounts. But I think its fair to 
say there wasnt anything else adverse shown. 
The value of his credit wasnt unreasonable for someone in Mr Gs financial situation.
And I dont think Lending Stream wouldve had any particular reason to be concerned about 
the information it had seen  applicants for expensive loans like this one can often have an 
impaired credit history and it isnt a reason not to lend in the absence of any other clear 
signs that it wouldnt be fair to do so.   I think that Lending Stream gave Mr G fair opportunity to provide relevant information about 
his spending  and if he didnt mention all his other credit spending or the fact that he was 
struggling financially at the time I dont think its reasonable to expect Lending Stream to 
have known this. The credit checks Lending Stream carried out didnt reveal anything that 
makes me think Lending Stream shouldve been prompted to probe more deeply into Mr Gs 
reasons for borrowing or take steps to verify what he was saying. And its lending decision 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me looking at the information Lending Stream relied on when 
deciding whether to provide this loan. So Im not upholding the complaint about loan 3.  
Im very sorry that Mr G has found repaying his borrowing difficult. Possibly his actual 
financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other 
information Lending Stream obtained. But I dont think that Lending Stream did anything 
wrong in deciding to lend to Mr G. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr G but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
I take this opportunity to remind Lending Stream (or any third party) that it should discuss 
payment options with Mr G and treat him fairly and sympathetically if he still needs further 
time to pay any outstanding balances. 
And if Mr G would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman