DRN-3273146
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Account (URCA) in August 2011 
by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
For clarity this decision is only about the sale of the URCA and not about the other issues Mr 
B has raised which are being addressed in separate cases. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that BOS told him he needed to take out the URCA to get an overdraft. He says it 
was unsuitable for him and he didnt use any of the benefits.
BOS says Mr B chose to take out the account based on the information it gave to him.
This sale took place in a branch over ten years ago and I wasnt there, so I can only make 
my decision using the evidence available today.
Mr B had previously had a fee free account with an overdraft, so he knew these were 
available. And BOS has provided a copy of the application form for the URCA which Mr B 
has signed.
So, in my view, its more likely than not that Mr B knew he had a choice whether to take out 
the URCA, and he chose to do so.
Ive not seen any evidence that this was an advised sale such as an assessment of Mr Bs 
circumstances by BOS. And this service is aware that BOSs sales at this time were non-
advised. So, I think its more likely than not that BOS didnt recommend the URCA to Mr B or 
advise him to take out.
This means that BOS was not required to ensure the URCA was suitable for Mr B. The only 
requirement was for BOS to provide all the information to Mr B to enable him to make an 
informed decision about it.
And I think it did. I say this because both parties acknowledge there was a detailed 
discussion about the URCA, and BOS was trying to sell the account to Mr B. And BOS has 
provided evidence that it sent the full welcome pack to him after the discussion.
I can also see why Mr B might have been interested. His account statements show he had 
been regularly using and exceeding his overdraft. At that time the fee free account had a £1 
a day charge for using the overdraft, and the monthly fee for the URCA was £15.
So, Mr B immediately saved charges by having the URCA and all the benefits were 
effectively at no extra cost.
Mr B couldve closed the account at any time over the months he had it, but he didnt, 
including after having a phone conversation later with BOS.
So, although I know Mr B will be disappointed, and Im sorry he has waited a long time for 
this decision, but in my view Im not able to say its more likely than not that BOS did 
anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman