DRN-3751505
The complaint
Mr K complains Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on his landlord insurance 
policy.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr K made a claim after he found his tenants had damaged his property to 
facilitate the cultivation of cannabis.
Ageas initially accepted Mr Ks claim, and it offered £5,000 for the damage to the building. 
Mr K queried his missing and damaged contents, and loss of rent. However, Ageas then 
withdrew its offer and declined the claim in full. Ageas relied on an exclusion for loss or 
damage resulting from any building alterations. 
Mr K complained about Ageas claim decision. Ageas maintained its position, but it offered 
£150 compensation for the delays and the confusion caused by its initial claim decision. 
Mr K remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Ageas had 
fairly applied the exclusion. She thought Ageas should reconsider the claim in-line with the 
remaining policy terms and pay a total of £350 compensation.
Our investigator issued her findings six weeks ago. Because Ageas hasnt responded to our 
investigators findings, or to her two follow-up emails asking for a response, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. Ageas was informed two weeks ago the case 
would now be passed to an ombudsman due to its lack of response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy is split into buildings and landlords contents. Both sections have a standard 
coverage for malicious damage or vandalism. However, that coverage, in both sections, 
excludes damage caused by tenants. So, those coverages dont apply to Mr Ks claim.
Both sections also have additional coverages. The additional coverages of relevance to this 
complaint are:
a)accidental damage to the buildings
b)accidental damage including malicious damage and theft by tenant to the buildings
c)accidental damage to the landlords contents
d)accidental damage including malicious damage and theft by tenant to the landlords 
contents
My understanding of Mr Ks policy schedule is he had taken out the additional coverages Ive 
labelled a, b, and c, but not the additional coverage Ive labelled d. Therefore, if my 
understanding is correct, the contents  which were either stolen by the tenants or 
maliciously damaged by them  arent covered.
In respect of the additional coverage Ive labelled b, i.e. malicious damage to the buildings 
by tenants, the cover is limited to £5,000. The cover excludes: Loss or damage as a result 
of any building alterations, renovations or repairs.
Ageas declined the buildings part of the claim because the damage was caused by the 
tenants making building alterations. So, what I need to decide is whether Ageas strict 
application of the exclusion, in the circumstances of this case, is fair and reasonable. 
Any instance of malicious damage to a building could, strictly speaking, be considered to be 
an alteration. As such, applying the exclusion strictly, as Ageas has done here, would mean 
theres no cover in place for malicious damage by tenants. In my view, the exclusion needs 
to be applied in the spirit of the cover that has been taken out. 
In this case, the tenants alterations werent done for improvement purposes. The alterations 
were done in order to cultivate drugs, and theres no question the damage was deliberately 
and maliciously caused. So, in the context of the cover that was taken out, i.e. malicious 
damage by tenants, I dont consider Ageas reliance on the exclusion to be fair and 
reasonable.
Mr K has loss of rent cover under the buildings section. As per the policy terms, the loss of 
rent coverage applies where a claim for loss or damage has been accepted under one of 
the other buildings coverages. So, if the buildings part of Mr Ks claim is now accepted 
under the coverage Ive labelled b, the loss of rent coverage would be applicable.
In conclusion, Im persuaded Ageas should reconsider the buildings part of the claim without 
applying the alterations exclusion; and now respond to the contents, and loss of rent, parts 
of the claim. If Mr K is unhappy with Ageas further claim decision, he can make a new 
complaint about that.
Im not persuaded Ageas treated Mr K fairly by applying the exclusion. Ive seen the matter 
has caused him upset and inconvenience  in addition to his claim being delayed. In the 
circumstances, I find the compensation recommended by our investigator to be fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Ageas Insurance Limited should:
- reconsider the buildings part of the claim without applying the alterations exclusion;
- respond to the contents, and loss of rent, parts of the claim; and
- pay Mr K £350 compensation, in total (if £150 has already been paid, a further £200 
would be due).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman