DRN-3306175
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) hasnt reimbursed her for her loss after 
she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In February 2020 Mrs R was contacted by a scammer on a social media platform. They 
presented themselves as an experienced trader and offered to teach her how to invest in 
crypto currency with various different investment platforms.
Over the following days Mrs R, who had no previous experience with investments, made the 
following payments to a crypto-currency investment platform using her debit card under the 
instructions of the scammer: 
26 February 2020 £336.12
3 March 2020 £344.88
4 March 2020 £349.48
5 March 2020 £1000
5 March 2020 £1,500
£3,530.48
Mrs R gave the scammer control of her account with the investment platform. They told her 
she would receive a return on her investment around two weeks after the last payment was 
made. When this didnt happen she tried to contact the scammer who had blocked contact 
from her and deleted their social media account. 
Mrs R contacted Metro Bank to report the scam but it said it didnt feel it could help her as 
her payment was made to a legitimate investment platform. It suggested she raised the 
dispute directly with the platform.
I recently issued a provisional decision explaining that I didnt feel Metro Bank was liable for 
Mrs Rs loss. In summary, I said:
Metro Bank had decided not to carry out a chargeback request in this case as it didnt 
think there was a reasonable prospect of success. Chargeback is a voluntary 
scheme where it will arbitrate between the merchant and customer if there is a 
dispute. The rules of the scheme relevant to the type of investment Mrs R was 
making had no chargeback rights related to the use or withdrawal of funds once 
shed transferred them to the investment platform. As shed successfully funded her 
trading account, the dispute she was raising had come about when she tried to 
withdraw her money. I was satisfied the circumstances of her complaint didnt attract 
chargeback rights and therefore Metro Bank had acted reasonably in not raising a 
chargeback on this occasion.
I agreed that Metro Bank ought to have had measures in place to be on the look out 
for unusual activity on Mrs Rs account that might indicate she was the victim of a 
scam. And, I also agreed that where anything unusual was identified, it had an 
obligation to step in and carry out further checks to ensure she wasnt the victim of a 
financial crime. 
But, I didnt think any of the payments she made to the investment platform ought 
reasonably to have stood out to Metro Bank as significantly unusual or an indication 
of fraud. Even in the case of the last two payments, which were made on the same 
day and had a joint value of £2,500, I thought all the amounts Mrs R paid to the 
platform were within what a person might reasonably spend from time to time for 
larger than usual purchases or when theyre investing. I thought Metro Bank had to 
strike a balance between protecting its customer and not unreasonably preventing 
them from using their account the way they want to. I wouldnt expect it to carry out 
further checks every time a payment was slightly higher than payments generally 
made from the account.
Although I thought there were other factors, besides value, Metro Bank ought to have 
been on the look out for, I didnt think there was anything in this case that reasonably 
ought to have appeared significantly unusual or suspicious. Although Mrs R made 
numerous payments to the same merchant, these payments took place over a 
number of days, not in quick succession. And up until the last payment still left her 
with an account balance of over £1,000. When considered alongside all the other 
circumstances, I didnt think they fit the sort of pattern of behavior Id expect Metro 
Bank to be on the look out for when looking for indicators of fraud. Again, overall, I 
thought the payments Mrs R made were in line with how an individual might use their 
account from time to time.
Mrs R didnt accept my provisional decision. She said that:
Metro Bank hadnt protected her as it was required under the British Standards 
Institution code (BSI code). In particular, she highlighted that Metro Bank had a 
responsibility to have measures in place to detect indications of financial harm and 
should also have a process in place to contact its customers to verify any suspicious 
activity.
Metro Bank should warn its customers about the risks of sending money to offshore 
account and individuals they dont know and the likelihood of this money being 
recovered in the event of a scam. She also said Metro bank shouldve contacted her 
to discuss her circumstances and given her sufficient warnings about how scams 
work so they can best protect themselves.
She also explained she was very upset by the change in outcome and felt her 
complaint has been callously dismissed.
Metro Bank didnt respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs R has said, and I have considered everything 
again. But I havent reached a different conclusion to the one set out in my provisional decision. I wont repeat everything I said in the provisional decision (that Ive summarised 
above). But I would like to address Mrs Rs ongoing concerns and hopefully clarify why Ive 
reached the conclusion I have.
Id also like to start by saying Im genuinely very sorry Mrs R has found my answer so 
difficult and I can understand why. I hope I can offer her some reassurance that her 
complaint hasnt been dismissed without care, I have considered everything very carefully. 
But my role is to reach an impartial decision and although Im sorry its not the outcome she 
was hoping for, I have done that here. 
In her response to my provisional decision, Mrs R has set out what she feels Metro Banks 
responsibilities to her were. And I agree with what shes said. As I set out in my provisional 
decision, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time (which includes 
the BSI code Mrs R has mentioned in her response), I think Metro Bank should fairly and 
reasonably have had systems in place to look out for indications its customers were at risk of 
financial crime. Ive also said I think its appropriate in certain situations for it to take 
additional steps or make additional checks to verify payments  and this may include 
contacting its customers.
But in this case, I dont think the payments Mrs R made to the investment platform were so 
significantly unusual they ought reasonably to have caught Metro Banks attention. This 
doesnt mean Metro Bank doesnt have measures in place to be on the look out for 
suspicious activity. It means that these particular payments didnt flag as unusual despite 
these measures being in place. And having considered the payments myself, Im satisfied 
that was reasonable here. Because for the reasons given, I dont think the payments Mrs R 
ought to have stood out as suspicious activity. I think they were in line with the way someone 
might genuinely use their account from time to time for larger than normal purchases or 
when theyre participating in something like investing or gambling. 
As Ive said, Metro Bank has to strike a balance between taking steps to prevent fraud and 
unreasonably interfering with an individuals account to the extent it delays or prevents 
legitimate payments. I wouldnt expect it to check every transaction or carry out further 
checks every time a transaction is slightly higher than usual. 
Mrs R has set out the warnings she feel Metro Bank shouldve given her in this case. In 
particular she feels it shouldve told her about the risks of sending money overseas or to 
people you dont know (although neither of these apply in Mrs Rs case as she sent the 
money to her own account with a trading platform). Shes also said it shouldve warned her it 
was unlikely her money could be recovered if she was scammed.
I agree that there are certain situations where Metro Bank ought reasonably to give targeted 
warnings where it thinks a customer might be at risk of a particular known scam. But I dont 
think it needed to contact her to give her targeted warnings in this case because for the 
reasons given, I dont think Metro Bank reasonably ought to have identified Mrs R at risk. 
As Ive said, Im sorry to hear of what Mrs R has been through and Im sorry I havent been 
able to find in her favour on this occasion. But I hope Ive explained that I have considered 
everything shes said very carefully. Whilst its in no doubt Mrs R has been the victim of a 
scam, I dont think its the case that Metro Bank missed an opportunity to prevent her from 
losing her money. So I havent asked it to reimburse her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman