DRN-4338906
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund a number of payments made from his account, 
which he says he didnt make.
What happened
In mid-2022, a number of payments were made from Mr Fs Revolut account, which he says 
he didnt make. Mr F told our service he was hospitalised while abroad and thinks someone 
took his card while he was in hospital and made the payments. Ive set out the payments 
made from Mr Fs account below:
Date Amount
28 June 2022 £151.68
30 June 2022 £60.54
3 July 2022 £73.00
29 July 2022 £42.47
15 August 2022 £120.00
Mr F says he noticed his card was missing after he left the hospital, and he reported it and 
the disputed payments to Revolut shortly afterwards. Revolut investigated but said it was 
unable to find any evidence of fraudulent activity on his account, so didnt agree to refund 
the payments. Mr F wasnt satisfied with Revoluts response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They didnt think the payments were carried out 
by an unknown third-party, and thought it was more likely Mr F had authorised them. So they 
didnt think Revolut should have to refund the payments. Mr F disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer authorised the payments  
for example, by making them themselves or telling someone else they could make them.
Deciding whether a customer has authorised payments is a two-part test. Firstly the 
payments must be authenticated, and secondly, the customer must have consented to the 
payments being made. And this doesnt necessarily require proving that the customer made 
the payments themselves, as it is possible for a customer to authorise someone else to 
make payments on their account.
Revolut has sent us evidence which shows the five payments Mr F is disputing here were all 
made using his genuine card. And Mr F says his card was stolen, so isnt disputing that the 
payments were made using his genuine card. This means the payments were correctly 
authenticated, and so I must also think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely 
than not that Mr F consented to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
When he first reported the disputed payments to Revolut, Mr F said he had been mugged 
while in a foreign country. But then later, and when speaking to our service, Mr F said his 
card was stolen while he was in hospital in a different foreign country. Its not clear why Mr F 
initially told Revolut a different story about what happened, but I think this means I must be 
cautious when relying on what Mr F has said.
Mr F also appears to have waited nearly a week after realising his card was missing before 
reporting the disputed payments to Revolut, whereas Id usually expect a missing card or 
disputed transactions to be reported immediately to avoid a potential fraudster making any 
further transactions. There were also a number of other transactions made with Mr Fs card 
in between the disputed transactions and, while Mr F says he has now disputed all of these 
as well, he doesnt appear to have identified them when he identified these initial disputed 
transactions.
Revoluts records suggest that, for two of the payments, a notification was sent to Mr F about 
them via the Revolut app on his mobile phone. And that someone logged in to the app on his 
phone and confirmed the payments before they were made. Mr F says his phone is locked 
with a passcode, which he hasnt told anyone else. But, if this is the case, someone would 
have needed to guess his phone passcode to confirm the payments  which I think is 
unlikely.
The nature of these payments is also not the sort of thing Id typically expect an opportunistic 
thief to do after gaining access to someones account. Generally, the way fraudsters operate 
is to get as much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the money 
being cut-off or them being detected. But here, there are gaps of several days or weeks 
between some of the payments. And the payments dont use up the full available balance in 
Mr Fs account. So I dont think its likely these payments were done by an opportunistic 
thief.
I appreciate how Mr F feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in his favour. I 
dont think the evidence suggests the payments were made by an unknown third-party. And, 
based on the evidence I have and in the absence of any other likely explanation, I think its 
likely he consented to the payments  either by making them himself or by allowing 
someone else to make them.
And so I dont think Revolut has acted unreasonably in holding Mr F responsible for the 
payments made out of his account, or that it needs to refund the payments to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Alan MillwardOmbudsman