DRN-4318987
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
a scam.
Background
In July 2022, Mr H fell victim to an investment scam. He noticed posts on a social media 
platform by an influencer who recommended investing with a particular investment manager. 
He followed a link in that post which led to him being put in direct contact with the company 
supposedly managing the investments.
He communicated with the company using a well-known messaging platform and I 
understand he believed his investment was based in speculations on foreign exchange 
movements. He says he was told that hed earn a return of around 20-30% without risk. He 
couldnt remember what period of time he anticipated earning this return over. He used his 
Monzo account to transfer £11,000 in 4 payments. He made two payments on 14 July and 
two more on 21 July.
When Mr H initially told Monzo about the payments, he claimed that he hadnt authorised 
them. Monzo investigated his complaint on that basis and found no evidence to support his 
claim. It was only when Mr H made a formal complaint via a professional representative that 
he said hed fallen victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Monzo considered his complaint under the terms of the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code but didnt agree to reimburse him. Mr H was 
unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was looked at 
by an Investigator who upheld it in part  she didnt think Mr H had a reasonable basis for 
believing this investment opportunity was a legitimate one. Nonetheless, she noted that 
Monzo shouldve displayed an effective warning during the payment journey and, in her 
view, it didnt do so.
Monzo disagreed with the Investigator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Mr H will generally be liable for 
payments that hes authorised. I accept that Mr H initially told Monzo a different version of 
events after he realised hed fallen victim to a scam. He said he did this out of fear that hed 
never get his money back. In any event, the evidence he has now provided does seem to 
indicate that an investment scam took place and Mr H fell victim to it. It is therefore now 
common ground between the parties that he authorised these payments and so Mr H is 
considered liable at first instance.
However, Monzo has agreed to abide by the terms of the CRM Code. Under that code, the 
starting point is that firms should reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but limited circumstances. If Monzo declines to 
reimburse its customer in full, it needs to establish that one, or more, of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM Code apply. The relevant exceptions are:
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; or
The Investigator concluded that Monzo could fairly rely on the second exception because 
she wasnt persuaded Mr H had a reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate 
investment opportunity. I agree with that conclusion.
Mr H should have been more sceptical of an investment opportunity that was offered to him 
on a social media platform by a business that only communicated with him via a messaging 
app and, apparently, had no web presence at all. I also think that the tone of the 
communications between Mr H and the scammer werent indicative of a genuine 
professional organisation. At the very least, this shouldve prompted Mr H to carry out further 
checks before agreeing to part with his money. But he didnt do this  he took the claims of 
the scammer at face value.
Mr H told us that he was promised a return of around 20-30% and that this seemed 
believable. However, he also told us that he wasnt sure what period of time he could expect 
to earn this return over and so its impossible to know just how significant the promised 
returns were. A return of 20-30% on his investment in a week or a month would be 
absolutely extraordinary and simply not credible. But even the promise of such a return over 
a year ought to have made him sceptical, particularly since I understand he was assured that 
his upfront capital wouldnt be at risk.
Finally, the payments he made were to named individuals but those people had no 
connection to the person hed been communicating with. I think this shouldve been a cause 
for concern and prompted Mr H to carry out further checks before agreeing to go ahead with 
the payments. 
However, the CRM Code also sets out expectations that firms are required to meet. SF1(2) 
in the Code says:
Where Firms identify APP scam risks in a Payment Journey, they should take 
reasonable steps to provide their Customers with Effective Warnings, which should 
include appropriate actions for those Customers to take to protect themselves from 
APP scams.
It also goes on to set out the requirements for an Effective Warning by saying that, as a 
minimum, they should be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Im satisfied that Monzo ought to have recognised a fraud risk from the point Mr H made the 
first payment of £4,000 and so needed to display a warning. That payment was significantly 
larger than typical payments made from his account, and it was to a new payee. A warning 
was displayed but Im not persuaded it met the criteria for an effective warning.Essentially, the warning was too broad in scope and attempted to warn Mr H about multiple 
scam types. It described four scenarios in which Mr H should not proceed with payment. The 
first and last attempt to address the risk that Mr H has been targeted by a safe account 
scam. It also told Mr H to stop if the offer sounds too good to be true  but from Mr Hs 
testimony, he found the returns on offer to be believable and so framing the warning it that 
way wouldnt do anything to protect him from the risk.
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Monzo did everything it shouldve done 
once it was notified of the scam. As soon as Mr H realised that hed fallen victim to a scam, 
he told Monzo that he wasnt responsible for making the transactions. Monzo responded to 
Mr H on the basis of that false explanation. It was only when he engaged the services of a 
professional representative that he claimed to have authorised the payments but to have 
fallen victim to an APP scam.
This was several months later and so the prospect of any funds remaining in those accounts 
was very small and I dont find it unreasonable for Monzo to not have made contact with the 
receiving banks.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part.
If Mr H accepts my decision, Monzo Bank should refund 50% of the money he lost to the 
scam. It should add 8% simple interest to this sum calculated to run from the date it declined 
his claim until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman