DRN-4317537
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited hasnt made it 
sufficiently clear that the advice hes required to take by law before transferring his pension 
policy only needs to be specific to the issue of the safeguarded benefits contained in the 
policy, and doesnt have to involve a full financial review of his circumstances. Unless Royal 
London does this, he believes its going to be difficult for him to find someone to advise him 
at an acceptable cost. 
What happened
Mr M has a pension pot with Royal London worth £100,000 which benefited from a 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). In November 2022 he was looking to transfer it internally 
within Royal London to access it on a flexible basis, which involved giving up the GAR. 
Because the size of the fund subject to the GAR was over £30,000, it was required under the 
Pension Schemes Act 2015 to check that hed received independent advice on the 
transaction before it could proceed to make the transfer. 
This requirement applies even though, as Mr M says Royal London told him in its own 
literature, his GAR wasnt in the money at the time. In other words, he appeared to be able 
to secure a higher annuity on the open market rather than at the guaranteed rate.
As part of its transfer information, Royal London included an Appropriate Advice Declaration 
(AAD) for any adviser Mr M approached to sign. Amongst other things, this said that the 
client must get advice before they can do either of the following[transfer away or 
access benefits flexibly]. And the adviser must have permission from the Financial Conduct 
Authority of Advising on pension transfers and pension opt-outs. Specifically, the form said 
that the advice Mr M received MUST relate to what [he] wishes to do with [his] pension pot.
Mr M says that hed talked to six financial advisers and none of them were willing to simply 
give him advice specific to the transaction being proposed. All of them insisted that they 
were required to give full financial advice' and charge between 2-3% of the fund, rather than 
(as he hoped) charge a nominal amount to rubber stamp what looked to him to be an 
obvious case for transferring. One of the advisers Mr M approached indicated that they 
should be able to sign the form after a brief review, but after looking into things further they 
specifically quoted the phrases used in the AAD as meaning full advice would be required.
Mr M said that hed specified on two online portals designed to match him with an adviser 
that I he only required confirmation that he had been given advice specific to giving up his 
safeguarded rights, and received no interest from anyone in advising him. And when he 
spoke to an adviser and laboured this point, they became angry with him  which again he 
feels Royal London could have done more to prevent happening.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He concluded that the wording in and 
alongside Royal Londons AAD made it sufficiently clear that the advice Mr M obtained didnt 
have to be in favour of transferring (and the Act does not require this). He suggested that if 
Mr M had encountered a problem with a particular adviser that hed like to complain about, 
he could complain to them separately.
Mr M didnt agree with the Investigator. In summary, he said:
The Investigator had focused on the wrong issue and hadnt addressed that Royal 
London was misleading advisers into thinking they had to provide full advice.
He hadnt considered the written evidence Mr M had from one adviser saying it was 
the wording on Royal Londons AAD that caused this.
The form should stipulate the minimum level of advice that was required.
I note that Mr M does appear to accept that the point the Investigator was making (about the 
advice not needing to support the transaction) also has some relevance. He notes a more 
helpful explanation of this is given in the Adviser section of Royal Londons website and says 
this should be contained on the form itself:
The adviser does not necessarily have to agree with the proposed transaction to provide 
this confirmation. They are simply confirming that they have provided advice on the 
proposed transaction to the individual.
Mr M says that if Royal London had done this, he would have had no reason to complain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether Royal London can permit Mr M to transfer or flexibly access his policy is specifically 
governed by secondary legislation under the Pension Schemes Act 2015 (Transitional 
Provisions and Appropriate Independent Advice) Regulations 2015. The Regulations set out 
that the member should be informed in advance (as Mr M has in this case) of the form in 
which confirmation of the advice given is required. That form is as follows:
(a)  that advice has been provided which is specific to the type of transaction proposed 
by the member or survivor;
(b)  that the adviser has permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000, or resulting from any other provision of that Act, to carry on the regulated 
activity in article 53E of the Regulated Activities Order;
(c)  the firm reference number of the company or business in which the adviser works for 
the purposes of authorisation from the FCA to carry on the regulated activity in article 53E 
of the Regulated Activities Order; and
(d)  the member's or survivor's name, and the name of the scheme in which the member 
or survivor has subsisting rights in respect of safeguarded benefits to which the advice 
given applies.
Having considered the AAD Royal London provided to Mr M for his adviser to sign and the 
accompanying request for documentation alongside that form, Im satisfied that it met these 
requirements.
Im unable to see how the wording on that form is misleading an adviser into providing more 
extensive advice than they actually need to provide  for the reason that any adviser of the 
type required by the form (i.e. authorised by the FCA to give advice on pension transfers) will 
know that their advice is subject to the FCAs rules and guidance. Theres no ability under 
those rules, if theyre correctly being followed, to give partial advice that in some way only 
rubber stamps what Mr M already wants to do.Mr M has said, The intention is not that I be required by law to take full financial advice, or 
that the adviser takes on the risk and/or responsibility for any decision I make. There are 
two statements here that need to be uncoupled. Firstly, Mr M is correct that the Act requiring 
Royal London to check hes received appropriate independent advice doesnt stipulate how 
full or brief the advice needs to be (other than that it needs to be on the specific 
transaction he is contemplating). But thats because the Act was laid down by Parliament 
whereas matters as to the suitability of advice, and particularly what needs to be taken into 
account to ensure that advice is suitable, are reserved to the FCA. Secondly, any risk or 
responsibility taken on by the adviser is essentially determined by whether it has correctly 
followed the FCAs rules and guidance. The Act says nothing about what an adviser should 
do, as only Mr Ms pension provider Royal London is subject to its provisions.
The FCAs rules covering financial advisers require them to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that the advice they provide is suitable for the clients circumstances and objectives (COBS 
9.2.1R in the regulators handbook). And to gather sufficient information from the client to 
give them a reasonable basis for believing that the client can understand and bear the risks 
inherent in the transaction being contemplated (COBS 9.2.2R).
It isnt going to be possible for an adviser to know whether their advice would be suitable 
without firstly going through these steps, and for that reason the different concepts of full or 
(in some way) partial advice that Mr M is suggesting have no basis under this core part of 
the regulators handbook. It would be difficult to demonstrate that advice on a pension is 
suitable if, at the very least, all matters relevant to that clients overall pension provision were 
not taken into account.
The regulator does permit a form of limited advice, known as abridged advice, to give 
clients an early indication of the advice that will likely be given on a potential transfer from a 
scheme where the guarantee is expressed as an annual monetary amount (such as an 
employers defined benefit pension scheme). Mr M isnt transferring from such a scheme, 
and those rules put beyond doubt at COBS 19.1A.2R A firm may not give abridged advice 
to the extent that the safeguarded benefits involved are guaranteed annuity rates. 
More relevantly however, even where abridged advice can be given the regulator says at 
COBS 19.1A.5R, A firm must not provide a confirmation for the purposes of section 48 of 
the Pension Schemes Act 2015 unless it has provided full pension transfer or conversion 
advice (meaning, in effect, a thorough review of all matters pertaining to that clients 
pension provision alongside the guarantees they are entitled to under their scheme).
This underlines the point that the regulator would not agree it would be sufficient for a 
financial adviser to advise in favour of (or for that matter, against) a transfer after only a 
cursory review of the providers paperwork. That principle still stands even if the only benefit 
involved was a GAR. As Ive said above, any adviser Mr M approached, by virtue of the fact 
that it was regulated, ought to have been familiar with what its regulator required. So Im 
unable to say that anything Royal London did reasonably caused the advisers Mr M met to 
indicate that they could provide this type of cursory review, or that the specific form of the 
AAD Royal London provided then reasonably caused them to change their position. 
The fact that one adviser specifically gave Royal London as their reason for their change in 
approach doesnt mean Im bound to agree. Royal London articulated the requirements that 
always existed: for advice to be given that was specific to the transaction being 
contemplated. It was always a matter for the adviser to ensure that the advice they gave met 
their own regulators requirements and to explain what those were to Mr M.
It also doesnt seem to me that all of the advisers have refused to assist Mr M. Some may 
not have been prepared to if they perceived that their advice might be to retain the GAR and they didnt want to be in the position where Mr M might be seeking to act against that advice. 
There are rules in the FCAs handbook covering so-called insistent clients and so it isnt 
correct to say that giving advice in this area is without risk: rules can inadvertently be 
breached whether advice is given in favour of transferring or not. And the terms of a firms 
professional indemnity cover may set out what services it is insured to provide. 
If some of the firms Mr M met thought at first glance they might be able to advise in favour of 
transferring, they would still always be required to go through the steps in COBS 9.2.1R and 
9.2.2R before they could deliver that advice. So theres no particular reason to assume they 
would agree to give that advice for a lower fee. Its open to Mr M to try to negotiate on fees 
as hes been doing, but I expect the advisers will be taking into account the sorts of risks Ive 
set out above in deciding whether to agree to a lower amount. Whilst I have sympathy with 
Mr Ms position, if Royal London has already identified that the GAR on his policy wasnt in 
the money, none of that changes the fundamentals of what Ive said here.
Mr M says: It appears it is now standard practice in the Financial Advice industry to falsely 
represent the requirements of the Pension Schemes Act [2015] to justify charging clients a 
significant percentage of their pension pots for services that are not actually required by the 
law. Im not in a position to know whether that is happening as Mr M describes, but if it were 
that wouldnt be a matter for Royal London to address. Mr M himself summarises that a part 
of his complaint is against the whole industry and he thinks it needs to be addressed by the 
FCA. He says he doesnt know how he can do that other than by referring a complaint 
against Royal London to this service. 
My role is to consider individual disputes between consumers and their pension providers (or 
advisers). If Mr M is looking to bring about the change he appears to be seeking in how 
financial advisers are regulated, that is a matter hed need to refer to the FCA directly.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman