DRN-3811656
The complaint
Ms D has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her fee-paying Gold, Platinum 
and Gold packaged bank accounts at some point prior to September 2001, October 2005 
and April 2006, respectively.
Ms D has given a number of reasons why she says that they were mis-sold. These include, 
that she was charged account fees that she says she shouldnt have been charged. Ms D 
says that she didnt need the benefits on the account, as she already had them elsewhere. 
Ms D also says that when her account was changed back to being a Gold account, Lloyds 
continued to incorrectly charge her a monthly fee for the account. Ms D says that she was 
never given the option of a fee-free account.
What happened
Lloyds upheld Ms Ds complaint about the sale of the first Gold account and arranged for the 
account fees to be refunded to Ms D, and paid her 8% simple interest, less tax on those 
fees. However, Lloyds didnt think that the Platinum account or the second Gold account 
were mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators assessed Ms Ds complaint about the sale of the Platinum account 
and the second Gold account, and they didnt think that they had been mis-sold.
Ms D disagreed with this, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
As Lloyds has already paid redress on the first Gold account in line with what our service 
wouldve recommended it do to put matters right, this decision will only address the sale of 
the Platinum account and the second Gold account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the two packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Platinum account
Ms D says that she was advised to upgrade her Gold account to a Platinum account in 
branch. However, the evidence provided by Lloyds says that the upgrade took place online, 
and there is no evidence to indicate that the Platinum was discussed with Ms D in branch. 
So based on everything I have seen, I think the account was most likely sold online. This in 
turn makes me think that it was sold on a non-advised basis. This means that Lloyds was not 
obliged to check if it was right for Ms D, but it did have to give Ms D all of the important 
information about the account, so that she could decide this for herself.
Ms D says that she wasnt given the option of a fee-free account. Having looked at an 
archived version of Lloyds website from October 2005, I can see that the range of current 
accounts is clearly displayed  included fee-free options (such as the Classic and Classic 
Plus accounts). Therefore, I think it in all likelihood was made clear to Ms D at the time, that 
fee-free alternatives were available to her if she wanted one.
Ms D says that she didnt need the benefits on the account as she already held them 
elsewhere. But from what Ive seen and on what I think Ms D was likely to have seen at the 
time, I think that it was made clear that the Platinum account would cost Ms D £15 per month 
 although there was an offer on at the time that meant the account would cost £10 per 
month until March 2006. It also explained that the account included worldwide travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover, card protection cover and a £250 
interest free overdraft facility, amongst other benefits.
Therefore, I think that when Ms D upgraded to the Platinum account, she did so knowing 
how much it would cost and what benefits shed get in return. Indeed, given that Ms D then 
chose to downgrade back to a Gold account in April 2006, this makes me think she probably 
chose to upgrade to the Platinum account to take advantage of the discount on the fee 
(which meant she got the enhanced benefits of the Platinum account, but for the same price 
as the Gold account at the time). And whilst I cant be sure she was presented with all of the 
important information about the account, Ive not seen anything that makes me think that she 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given even more 
information about it.
As such, I dont think that the Platinum account was mis-sold.
Gold account
I note that the adjudicator said that she thought the downgrade to the Gold account was 
done on an advised basis. But looking at the evidence, I dont think that was the case. I say 
this because there is a customer note recorded by Lloyds at the time which show that Ms D 
specifically asked for her account to be changed back to a Gold account, rather than it being 
the case that Lloyds was trying to persuade her to do so. Afterall, there wouldve been no 
incentive for Lloyds to do this given that the Gold account was the cheaper account of the 
two. I think its more likely Ms D chose to downgrade as a cost saving exercise, given that 
the discount on the Platinum account had finished by then.
In this context, Im not persuaded by Ms Ds point that she feels misled by Lloyds into 
thinking that fee-free accounts were not available to her - given that I think she specifically 
asked for her account to revert back to the Gold account. Overall, I think that Ms D was 
aware other accounts were available to her, but she asked for the Gold account as she was 
interested in the benefits it provided.
Indeed, the benefit usage on the account supports this as Ms D went on to register phones 
under the mobile phone insurance, make claims on the worldwide travel insurance and she 
made a claim on the breakdown cover. 
Again, Lloyds was required to give Ms D the important information about the account, so that 
she understood what benefits came with the account, and how she could go about using 
them. 
Ms Ds actions suggest that she had a good awareness of the insurance terms and 
conditions. For example, she knew how to register phones, so they were covered by the 
Gold account policy, and also knew how to go about making claims on the travel and 
breakdown cover. I cant be sure if Ms D was presented with all of the information she 
shouldve been, but equally Ive not seen anything that makes me think she wouldve been 
put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given more information about it.
Loss of fee-waiver
Finally, I note that Ms D says that she shouldve got the Gold account for free, as she said 
she had in the past. 
As explained by the adjudicator, in the past, the Gold account had included a feature called 
a fee-waiver  which meant the account holder would not have to pay the monthly account 
fee providing they kept their balance above a certain amount. But, this feature was no longer available to any new packaged account applications after 2004  so Ms D wouldve lost this 
feature when she chose to upgrade her account to a Platinum account (which by then, didnt 
include a fee-waiver). However, I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for Ms D losing 
the fee-wavier on the Gold account, given that from what I have seen, it was Ms D who 
chose to change her account to one that didnt include a fee-waiver. 
Furthermore, I can see that Ms D called Lloyds on 22 April 2008 asking why she was being 
charged for the account. The notes show that it was explained that Ms D most likely lost her 
fee-waiver when she chose to upgrade to the Platinum account, and then when she changed 
back to a Gold account, it was no longer a feature available to her. And despite this, Ms D 
chose to keep the Gold account for many more years after. As such, it seems likely that Ms 
D wouldve still gone ahead with the downgrade back to Gold (rather than changed to 
another account) had it been pointed out to her during the downgrade process that it no 
longer included a fee-waiver.
As such, when taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Lloyds mis-sold the 
Platinum or Gold accounts in October 2005 and April 2006.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman