DRN-2732860
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) couldnt trace his savings account.
  
What happened
M E had several accounts with Barclays, including a savings account. The balance was 
£127.98 in 1995. The last deposit was in 1991. He asked Barclays to close it. Barclays 
couldnt find the account.
Mr E complained that Barclays couldnt find the account. He provided two account numbers 
 as it was changed to a new number in 1989. He produced a statement dated October 
1995. But Barclays told him they couldnt find it. He found this unacceptable  he says its his 
money and hes certain that it exists.
Barclays said theyd searched their records, including their dormant accounts and couldnt 
find Mr Es account. They suggested he go through the industry service at 
www.mylostaccount.org.uk to see if that located it. They said that prior to 1997, electronic 
records of dormant accounts didnt exist  so that would involve a search of paper records.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said hed seen that Barclays had 
done all the checks they could be expected to have done. Barclays showed him screenshots 
of the searches theyd completed  but theyd not found the account.
Mr E asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr E and Barclays have said to us. Mr E is sure that his account and 
balance still exists  and believes Barclays should be able to locate it and pay the money to 
him.
This service reviews whether we think that Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in trying to 
resolve Mr Es complaint. In this case, I think they did.
Ive seen that we asked Barclays to confirm the searches they did  and Ive seen evidence 
they did this  and found no such account - either on the old account number (pre-1989), or 
the new one. We recently showed Barclays Mr Es last statement dated October 1995, and a 
paying-in slip dated March 1991. They searched again with these details but found no such 
account in their records  either an active account, nor a closed dormant account.
I dont think that in all fairness, Barclays can be expected to do anything further to search for 
Mr Es account  theyve done all they could. So, while I appreciate that Mr E will be 
disappointed by my decision, I wont be asking Barclay to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman