DRN-3361671
The complaint
Mr M says AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company didnt pay him enough for his 
written-off vehicle after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
AXA offered Mr M £2,800 (or £1,800 if he wanted to retain the salvage). It said the cost of 
repairs was over half the vehicles value. Mr M thought the vehicle was worth over £7,000. 
He said although its mileage was more than 200,000, the engine was replaced after 100,000 
miles, so the valuation should be based on that. Mr M also said AXAs garage hadnt 
checked whether the vehicles suspension was damaged, but that it had taken £1,563 off the 
valuation for pre-existing damage, based on an assumption. And he said that when he 
decided to keep the salvage, AXA cancelled the policy, pending a report from an 
independent engineer about the suspension. 
In its final response letter to Mr M, AXA said it had based its valuation on the national trade 
guides and had then deducted a sum for pre-existing damage that was half the estimated 
cost of repairing it. It said it would need a report from an independent engineer to show that 
the vehicle had been repaired to a safe standard in order to reinsure it. AXA told us later that 
it had offered to raise the sum offered to Mr M by £200, but hed declined the offer. It also 
said the vehicle was a total loss even without evidence of a damaged suspension.
One of our investigators concluded that AXA had acted reasonably. He said it was fair to 
base the valuation on the mileage showing on the vehicles odometer  and he noted that 
AXA had offered to review the issue if Mr M provided evidence of the new engine. He also 
thought it was fair for AXA to rely on the trade guide valuations and to deduct the sum it did 
for pre-existing damage. He didnt think an inspection of the suspension was necessary 
when all the other damage meant the vehicle would have been written-off anyway.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy says AXA will pay him the market value for his vehicle. We think the fairest 
way of establishing a vehicles market value is to look at the valuations in the national trade 
guides. They reflect the likely selling prices of vehicles nationwide, based on extensive 
research. We dont generally think advertised prices are reliable, largely because theyre 
open to negotiation, or may include extras. I think AXA has shown that it followed our 
guidance in getting a market value for the vehicle of £4,385 from the trade guides. And I 
think it was fair for it to use the mileage shown on the odometer, as Mr M didnt produce any 
evidence of a new engine, as AXA had suggested.
We think its fair for an insurer to deduct a sum for pre-existing damage from a vehicles 
market value if that damage is likely to have affected its sales price. On an older vehicle 
such as Mr Ms, some minor damage is to be expected. AXA has shown us that it used a 
leading software system to estimate what it would cost to repair the significant pre-existing 
damage on Mr Ms vehicle. The same system was used to calculate what the repairs for the 
accident damage would cost. AXA only deducted 50% of the sum for pre-existing damage 
(£1,563) from its valuation, so I think it acted fairly. 
Mr M could have had £2,800 for the vehicle had he left it with AXA for disposal (the market 
value less the 50% deduction for pre-existing damage). But he chose to retain it. So I think 
AXA was entitled to deduct £1,000 from the settlement sum, to reflect what it would have got 
had it sold the vehicle for salvage. And it offered to increase the £1,800 due to Mr M for the 
vehicle (minus salvage) by £200, which I think was reasonable. I also think it was fair for 
AXA to require Mr M to prove the vehicle had been repaired safely before reinsuring it. AXA 
didnt think it was roadworthy, so I think it was reasonable to ask for such evidence.
 
Its open to Mr M to try to sell the vehicle himself in its current state (or for parts) or to have it 
repaired. He says he cant do that for the sum AXA has paid him  but that sum is the 
remaining market value of Mr Ms vehicle once a sum for the salvage was deducted. AXA 
had already said it thought it would cost far more than that to repair the vehicle, even if the 
suspension isnt damaged.
Mr M insists that in arriving at a repair cost, AXA assumed the suspension was damaged. 
But AXA has provided evidence that shows it didnt take the suspension into account in 
assessing the damage. It told us that with a damaged suspension, the repair costs would 
have been over £4,000. Mr M also said he couldnt replace his vehicle for the sum AXA 
offered him. But I think AXA did what it was obliged to do (as set out in the policy) by offering 
him its market value (less a reasonable deduction for old damage). 
I know Mr M will be very disappointed with my decision, but as I dont think AXA acted 
unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.  
      
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman