DRN-4273846
The complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited, who Ill call MBNA, didnt uphold a claim he made to
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think theres evidence that the work completed on Mr Ss boat wasnt completed with
reasonable care and skill and that MBNA have therefore been unreasonable to reject his
s.75 claim. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a s.75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as I dont think the work the supplier (who Ill
call M) completed on 29 June 2022 was likely to have been completed with reasonable
care and skill. The invoice suggests the supplier was asked to Diagnose (an) Issue with
(the) boat not starting/cutting out. But when Mr S subsequently used the boat he
experienced the same problem.
The subsequent invoice from a third party supplier, who Ill call AM, who rectified the issue
successfully on 29 September 2022 explains, Inspect running of 3.0L Mercruiser. Remove
head and inspect valvetrain and gasket surface, re fit. Air leak found in clear plastic fuel
hose. Replace plastic fuel pipe to flexible rubber fuel hose, replace fuel filter and fittings. I
think that suggests the initial repair was inadequate and that M missed the hole in the fuel 
hose.
When theres a failure to complete work with reasonable care and skill wed usually expect
the supplier to be given a chance to put things right. But here Mr S has already had the boat
repaired. I dont think Mr S was unreasonable to get the work completed elsewhere as the
boat was almost 200 miles away from M. Ive looked at the work that was completed by AM
and I think the work completed was related solely to resolving the cut out issue. I think that
invoice for £671.52, therefore represents the real cost of repairing the boats original cut out
issue.
Mr S paid M £917.31 to M in June 2022 for the repair that didnt resolve the problem. But I
dont think all of that cost related to work needed to fix the cut out issue. Having considered
the invoice I think the VAT inclusive charges of £240 to service and de-winterise, and £34.79
for engine oil, were unlikely to be related to that problem; a total of £274.79. So, the real cost
of the failed cut out investigation and repair by M was £917.31 less £274.79 = £642.52.
When its not possible to carry out a repair it may be reasonable to expect a consumer to be
given a price reduction and here I think thats what MBNA should have done.
I think MBNA should provide a price reduction of £642.52 in respect of the failed repair. Im
not asking MBNA to refund any money in relation to the earlier repairs Mr S commissioned
from M as they werent funded by MBNA credit.
Mr S also had to store the boat before it could be repaired. Hes provided an invoice for
those storage costs of £146.88. I think those costs were incurred as a consequence of the
failed repair and MBNA should therefore refund those too.
Whilst Mr S may have been inconvenienced by these issues Im only considering MBNAs
actions here and not the actions of M. MBNA offered Mr S £60 in compensation for not
making it clear to Mr S that the independent report theyd asked him to supply needed to be
done prior to the work being completed. I think that is sufficient in the circumstances and Im
not asking them to pay any further compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell MBNA
Limited to:
Pay Mr S £642.52 as a price reduction.
Refund the £146.88 Mr S incurred for storage as a consequence of the suppliers
breach of contract.
Pay Mr S £60 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by their
actions (less anything they may have already paid).
Further comments and/or evidenceMBNA accepted my provisional decision, but Mr S didnt think the compensation was 
sufficient. He said:
 I know £60 has been suggested as compensation from MBNA but this wouldn't even 
cover my fuel let alone losing my boat for a season whilst the work was completed by AM. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that while Mr S may have been inconvenienced by 
these issues Im only considering MBNAs actions here and not the actions of M. The £60 is 
in respect of MBNAs failure to let Mr S know the report needed to be provided before the 
work could start. Im not persuaded they did anything else wrong and Im not therefore 
asking them to increase that compensation.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with additional information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision. That provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MBNA Limited to:
Pay Mr S £642.52 as a price reduction.
Refund the £146.88 Mr S incurred for storage as a consequence of the suppliers
breach of contract.
Pay Mr S £60 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by their
actions (less anything they may have already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman