DRN-1458048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK plc ("Santander") didn't refund a sum of money 
when Mrs L was the victim of a theft after visiting a branch. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L hold an account with Santander. Mrs L visited a branch and withdrew a sum of 
money in cash over the counter. 
After she left the branch, Mrs L discovered the money had been stolen from her bag. The 
money had been in an envelope. CCTV footage suggested the money had been stolen by 
two women when she was in a shop. 
Mr and Mrs L thought it was likely that the thieves had been tipped off by a man who was in 
the branch when she received the money and put it in her bag. They complained to 
Santander, saying its staff at the branch should have challenged this man. And they thought 
Santander should have had signs in the branch warning of the risk of theft. They also 
complained about the service they'd received after the theft, as they hadn't received a phone 
call when they'd been told they would, and also that they'd been unable to withdraw 
replacement money at the branch in the way they'd wanted to.
Santander rejected their complaint about whether it could have done more to prevent the 
theft. But it did say its service after the theft could have been better. So it paid £50 
compensation to recognise this. As Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with this outcome, they 
brought their complaint to us. Our investigator didn't think Santander should do any more 
than it had done already. He thought the compensation paid adequately recognised the poor 
service it had provided. But he also said he didn't think Santander should refund the money 
that was stolen. 
Mr and Mrs L didn't accept this, so they've asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I'm very sorry to hear that Mrs L was the victim of crime, I'm not persuaded I should 
ask Santander to refund the amount that was stolen. I'll explain why.
I know that Mr and Mrs L are convinced that the thieves who stole the money in the shop 
were assisted by an accomplice who had seen her receive the money and put it in her bag. 
They think this is how the thieves knew there was money in the envelope. They point out 
that her purse, which also contained cash, wasn't stolen. 
While I sympathise with this, I'm not satisfied there's enough evidence to show that the man 
identified by Mrs L was an accomplice to the thieves. As no-one has been convicted of the 
theft, there's no way of saying how they knew that she was in possession of a large sum of 
money in the envelope.And I'd say that even if the man was an accomplice, and did tip off the thieves, I don't think 
Santander could have done any more to intervene. There's nothing to show me that this man 
was acting in a sufficiently suspicious way as to justify a member of staff at the branch 
challenging him. I know Mr and Mrs L argue that his use of a mobile phone was suspicious 
but I don't think that this alone would be enough for his presence to be challenged by 
Santander's staff.
Mr and Mrs L also argue that there were no signs in the branch warning customers of the 
risk of theft. It may be preferable to have signs to this effect, but I'm not persuaded that by 
the lack of signs means Santander should be liable for a theft which, it should be stated, 
didn't happen on their premises.
So I'm satisfied that there's no grounds for me to say that Santander should refund the 
amount of money stolen from Mrs L.
After the theft, Mr and Mrs L wanted to withdraw cash from their account to replace what had 
been stolen. Because of their suspicions about what had happened, they wanted to do this 
in a private room at the branch. They were initially told this would be possible but when they 
visited the branch, were told it couldn't be done because of Santander's processes. And they 
were also told they'd be contacted by phone, but didn't receive a call.
Santander's recognised that its service on these points could have been better, and that its 
communications with Mr and Mrs L weren't up to the necessary standard. It paid £50 
compensation because of this. 
I agree that the service provided by Santander wasn't good enough, particularly in the 
circumstances where Mrs L had just been the victim of a theft of a large amount of money. 
But I am satisfied that the compensation paid to date is sufficient to recognise the degree of 
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Ben Williams
Ombudsman