DRN-2797864
The complaint
Mr H complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
him money he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H as follows: 
loan start date date repaidmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
131/01/2016 10/02/2016 4 £500 £237.00
220/05/2016 04/06/2016 3 £500 £330.66
310/06/2016 30/06/2016 1 £100 £116.00
430/06/2016 17/08/2016 3 £400 £226.13
527/08/2016 07/12/2016 12 £1,200 £283.60
602/08/2017 15/08/2017 12 £1,300 £365.73
703/09/2017 05/10/2017 6 £800 £389.33
824/07/2020 04/08/2020 12 £350 £75.24
913/09/2020 02/10/2020 12 £1,150 £261.27
When Mr H complained to Mr Lender it said all the loans had been provided only after 
checks were carried out in line with its responsible lending policies that were in place at the 
time. But it had since reviewed the way it used to deal with loan applications it could now see 
there were trigger points that meant more questions could have been asked around potential 
financial vulnerability and how affordable loan 3 had been. So Mr Lender partly upheld 
Mr Hs complaint and said it would be refunding to Mr H all of the interest paid towards this 
loan, including 8% simple interest, and it would be willing to remove that loan entirely from 
his credit file. 
Mr H didnt feel that this offer went far enough to put everything right so he brought his 
complaint to us. He mainly told us that he took out a large number of loans to pay other 
loans and felt that Mr Lender should accept responsibility for irresponsibly lending all these 
loans to him  not just loan 3. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Mr Lender to have provided loans 1, 2 and 4 to Mr H, but explained why he thought 
that in addition to upholding the complaint about loan 3 as Mr Lender had offered to do, it 
shouldve realised that loans 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 shouldnt have been lent. Our adjudicator set 
out the steps he said Mr Lender should take to put things right. 
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. In brief summary, Mr Lender mainly said it carried out a proper affordability 
assessment each time it provided a loan to Mr H and relied on its credit checks in support of 
its lending decisions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
 As far as I can see, Mr H is happy to accept what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loans 1,2 and 4. So I dont think I need to say more about 
loans 1, 2 and 4 except to say that I agree with our adjudicator about these loans.  
And as Mr Lender has already agreed to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 3, and offered 
appropriate redress, then I havent considered this loan further  except when thinking about 
Mr Hs overall borrowing pattern. 
By loan 5, I think its fair to say that Mr H was showing signs that he might be struggling 
financially. This was his fifth loan in a row and he had been borrowing more or less 
continuously. I acknowledge the gap in lending between loans 1 and 2  and also that 
Mr Lender has pointed out that the amount of loan 3 decreased significantly.
But I dont think that the gap between the first two loans was long enough for Mr Lender 
reasonably to think that Mr H mightve put his finances in order during this period. And the 
apparent reduction in reliance on this sort of borrowing when he took out loan 3 isnt borne 
out by other information Mr Lender could see. 
As our adjudicator mentioned, Mr Lender could see that loan 2 was taken out for £500  so 
this didnt suggest his financial situation had improved since he had taken out loan 1 as he 
was borrowing the same amount again. And he took out loan 4 around the same time as he 
repaid loan 3  and borrowed four times the amount he had just repaid. When he asked for 
loan 5 there was a big increase again in the amount he was seeking to borrow. 
Given all of this information, I think that by this point Mr Lender should have taken steps to 
verify what Mr H was saying about his financial circumstances as his borrowing record now 
looked to be seriously at odds with what Mr H had told Mr Lender about his financial 
situation and what its own checks appeared to show.  
Mr H has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Mr Lender 
was likely to have found out if it had carried out more robust checking of Mr Hs 
circumstances. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have looked at 
bank statements  the rules arent prescriptive. But in the absence of other evidence, I think 
these give a reasonable guide as to Mr Hs finances at the time. 
And had Mr Lender looked in depth at Mr Hs finances, as I think a proportionate check 
wouldve required it to do, it would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems 
managing his money.
I think it would have seen that Mr H was regularly spending significant amounts on what 
appear to be gambling transactions. And also that he was using a number of other high cost 
lenders and taking out multiple loans from other providers of high cost credit to supplement 
his income. All the indications are that Mr H wasnt using this sort of borrowing for its 
intended purpose of covering a short term cash flow problem and he wasnt managing his 
money responsibly at the time. I think if Mr Lender had seen this information it shouldve realised that there was a significant risk that loan 5 was unsustainable. And so it shouldnt 
have been provided. 
So Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about loan 5. 
Thinking about loan 6, I've taken into account that Mr Lender felt its checks were more than 
proportionate  also bearing in mind it had been 8 months or so since Mr H had paid loan 5.
Our adjudicator felt that gap in lending was long enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think 
that Mr H mightve put his finances in order during this period. This meant that when his 
borrowing started again, and Mr H applied for loan 6, he was effectively starting over. So it 
was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess his lending 
requests accordingly  and I agree.
But I can see that Mr Lender gathered information about Mr Hs income and expenditure 
which showed the loan repayment of £365.73 amounted to 28% of Mr Hs take home pay 
just for this loan alone  and hed have to meet the contractual repayment schedule hed 
signed up to for this loan for 12 months. 
So Mr Lender ought to have realised that the repayments Mr H had to make to pay loan 6 
were such a significant proportion of his spending money each month that in reality, this loan 
wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him (whether or not it was the start of a new 
chain of lending). And Mr Lender shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr H or any further 
lending. It follows that I dont think Mr Lender should have provided loan 7 either and for 
these reasons, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about loans 6 and 7.
There was a gap of well over 2 years before Mr H returned to Mr Lender to apply for more 
borrowing after he had paid loan 7. So I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to treat his 
application for loan 8 effectively as a fresh start in terms of his borrowing. 
Mr Lender recorded his income was £1,289 and worked out his expenditure was £1,162. 
After allowing for the monthly repayment on loan 8 this meant that Mr H wouldve only been 
left with just over £50. I agree with our adjudicator that this wasnt enough realistically to see 
Mr H through the month  and he was signing up to pay the loan over 12 months. So I think 
Mr Lender ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr H wouldve been able sustainably to 
repay this loan - and any subsequent loans. So it shouldnt have provided loans 8 and 9. 
This means, overall, in addition to loan 3 that Mr Lender has already agreed to uphold, Im 
upholding the complaint about loan 5 onwards.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr H, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. This means it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So, in addition to taking the steps Mr Lender said it would in relation to refunding loan 3 
(which it should do now if it hasnt already) Mr Lender should also: 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5,6,7,8,and 9 not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay to Mr H the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Hs credit file for loans 5,6,7,8,and 9 (and for 
loan 3 if it hasnt already amended the credit file entry for this loan). 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For these reasons, I partly uphold Mr Hs complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman