DRN-2403141
The complaint
Mrs L has brought this complaint to us on behalf of the estate of her late husband, Mr L. She 
complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold him three payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies.
What happened
Mr L took out three personal loans with Lloyds - respectively in 1994, 1996 and 1997. On 
each occasion he took out a single premium PPI policy to protect the repayments on the 
loan. The cost of each policy was added to the relevant loan. This meant that interest was 
charged on these costs.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators view. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs L, but Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint. I set out my reasons below.
.
Because they took place some 25 years ago, Lloyds no longer has much information about 
the PPI sales. And businesses arent required to keep such records over such long time 
periods. But, from the information Ive seen, it appears that the first and third policies and 
loans were sold to Mr L in branch meetings. And the second loan and policy were sold over 
the phone.
Although Lloyds no longer has copies of the loan agreements signed by Mr L, it has provided 
a sample of the type of agreement that it says was in use for such loans at the time. I have 
no reason to assume that this type of agreement was not used for the loans referred to in 
this decision. 
I can see that theres a section in the sample agreement dealing with PPI, where there are 
Yes and No selection boxes provided next to the words Optional Loan Repayment 
Protection. One set of boxes is to accept or decline PPI. And the other set is to accept or 
decline having the premium added to the loan. As PPI was taken out with the three loans I 
find that it is reasonable to assume that the boxes accepting the PPI were marked each 
time, leaving those declining the insurance, blank.. Its likely that the forms were completed 
this way by Lloyds. But I think this would have been after a discussion of his requirements 
with Mr L. In any event, the sections to which Im referring are just above the signature box 
for the agreements as a whole. And Im satisfied that Mr L would have seen them. And he 
could have queried the way the agreements had been filled in had they not been in 
accordance with what he wanted.  
The sample loan agreement also shows that the cost of the PPI loan, and the monthly 
repayments for it, were to be entered separately from the consumers cash borrowing and its 
monthly repayments. And I think Mr L would have queried the former entries had he not 
wanted the insurance. So I find that Mr L actively decided to take the PPI policy, knowing he 
had a choice.
The first and third loans were taken out in meetings. And Lloyds has told us that this means 
it would have given Mr L advice as to whether to take the policies with each of these loans. 
The second loan appears to have been taken out over the phone. And, to be as fair as 
possible to Mr Ls estate, both Lloyds and I have treated this PPI sale as also having been 
advised. This means that Lloyds needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that each of the 
policies were suitable for Mr Ls needs. As I dont know what happened during the meetings 
or what was said during the phone call, I dont know what steps Lloyds actually took. Nor do 
we have copies of all the actual policy that was is use at the time of the first sale. But I have 
looked at the terms and conditions of the policies for the two later sales. And also at the 
policy that we do have that was in use nearest to the date of the first sale, (and which I think, 
in the circumstances of this case, it is reasonable to assume applied in Mr Ls case). By 
reference to these policies and what I know about his circumstances at the time, I find that 
the policies were likely to have been suitable for Mr L. I say this because:
Mr L would likely to have been eligible for all the policies;
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr L would have been adversely affected by any of the 
likely main limitations and restrictions in any of the policies  such as those affecting 
someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Mr L was entitled to some sick pay from his employer. But I think that its likely that, 
following a successful claim, all three policies would have paid Mr Ls monthly loan 
repayments for up to 12 months, in the case of his having become involuntarily 
unemployed. Or until the earlier of his having returned to work or the loan being repaid, 
in the case of his being off work because of accident or illness. And these payments 
would have been made in addition to anything he got from his employer and could have 
been paid for longer periods than his sick pay. So I think that the polices could have 
been of use to Mr L;
.
Its possible if Mr L had repaid one or more of his loans early, he may not have been 
given a proportional refund of the premium hed paid for the relevant policy. So this made 
them relatively inflexible. I dont know whether Lloyds considered this or explained the 
situation clearly to Mr L. But I havent found any reason to think that, at the time he took 
the policies, Mr L thought likely he would be paying off the loans before their terms. So I 
dont think the policies lack of flexibility made them unsuitable for him. And I dont think it 
would have put him off buying them, even if Lloyds had clearly explained this;
Because not all the figures are still available, assumptions have had to be made on the 
cost of the policies and the monthly benefits that would have been payable following a 
successful claim. These assumptions have been based on what Lloyds knows generally 
about the way in which its loans and policies were set up. On this basis, I havent seen 
anything to make me think the premiums for the policies were unaffordable for Mr L. Or 
that the costs were uncompetitive by reference to other similar polices available in the 
market at the time.  Lloyds also needed to give Mr L enough information for him to decide if he wanted to buy
the policies. From the sample loan agreement, I think its likely the information Lloyds gave
him  particularly in relation to the interest hed have to pay on the loan for the premiums  
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But he chose to take out the policies and so appears 
to have wanted this type of cover. And I dont think the likely amount of interest payable on 
the premiums would have been enough to put him off. So having concluded that they were 
suitable for him, I dont think better information would have changed Mr Ls mind about 
buying them. I still think he would have thought they gave him valuable cover at affordable 
prices.
So, from my above conclusions, I dont find that Mr L has lost out because of anything 
Lloyds may have done wrong during the sales. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said earlier, Ive carefully considered everything that Mr L said, including that his 
family could have helped him out had he not been working. As we explain on our website, 
we dont usually take this into account because circumstances change  and such 
assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Mr Ts case to make me think its 
reasonable to deviate from this approach here. 
In responding to our adjudicators view, Mrs L said that the circumstances of the sales in this 
complaint were the same as those in respect of other PPI policies Mr L took out with Lloyds, 
and on which it agreed to settle his complaints. I dont know why Lloyds agreed to settle 
some of Mr Ls complaints. But in any event this doesnt affect my decision here. I am 
required to look at this complaint on its own merits without considering how Lloyds may have 
dealt with other ones. This is what Ive done.
My final decision
For the reason Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L on behalf of 
the estate of Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman