DRN-3860120
The complaint
Mr L says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr L took out two loans from Tesco Bank. They were both for £12,000 over 60 months. The
first was taken out on 26 November 2016 for a car. The monthly payment was £235.86 and
the total repayable was £14,151.60. The second loan was used to refinance the first and
was taken out on 28 May 2019. The monthly payment was £249.74 and the total repayable
was £14,984.40. There remains an outstanding balance.
Mr L says Tesco Bank did not carry out proper checks, he was already struggling financially
and had a gambling addiction. He had to take out a debt management plan in May 2020 and
this has all impacted his mental health.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said it would not have been
proportionate for Tesco Bank to have asked for the amount of information needed to show
the lending was unsustainable. She felt its checks were reasonable and did not show
anything that ought to have concerned the lender.
Mr L disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said better
checks would have showed the lending was unaffordable. He set out in detail his financial
circumstances at the time of each loan and sent in supporting evidence.
I reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. 
Extract from my provisional decision
Tesco Bank asked for some information from Mr L when he applied for both loans. This
included his net monthly income, any rent or mortgage costs and any existing credit
commitments. It made an assumption about his living costs using national statistics. It then
completed a credit check. In both 2016 and 2019 it decided he would be able to afford the
loans based on the results of these checks.
I think the checks proportionate for loan one and I dont think there were any indications in
the results that there was a risk Mr L would struggle to make his repayments sustainably.
The credit check showed Mr L had £4,964 of debt and was up-to-date with all his payments.
He declared his monthly income was £1,750, that he had no housing costs and a loan
repayment of £299. So I think Tesco Banks lending decision was fair. Mr L has challenged
some of this data but it was what he declared at the time and given it was his first loan and
his credit history was good I dont think Tesco Bank ought to have done further checks. For
this same reason, whilst Mr L has raised that he was £4,000 overdrawn and had a credit
card these debts did not show on the banks credit checks (this can happen due to timing
differences, or as not all lenders report to all the agencies) but we can only fairly expect
Tesco Bank to use the results their check returned.
It follows I dont think Tesco Bank was wrong to give loan one to Mr L
However, when he applied for loan two I dont think the same level of checks were
proportionate. Mr L was borrowing to refinance his first loan and the credit check showed his
indebtedness had increased significantly, particularly on credit cards. Taking on this loan
would mean Mr L needed to spend a relatively high proportion of his income on his credit
commitments so Tesco Bank ought to have done better checks to get the assurances it
needed that this would be sustainable  in other words, that he would not need to borrow to
repay or suffer some other financial harm.
I have reviewed Mr Ls bank statements from the months prior to his application. I am not
saying Tesco Bank had to do this but it is one way I can recreate what better checks would
most likely have shown Tesco Bank. And I think there were signs that there was a high risk
Mr L wouldnt to be able to repay this loan sustainably. He was persistently reliant on his
overdraft and gambling frequently. So his finances were not stable and I cannot see how he
could repay this loan without adverse financial consequences. And I do not find it
reasonable, or responsible, that Tesco Bank seems to be saying it ought to be taken into
account that Mr L also received significant credits from his gambling. But I apologise if I have
misunderstood this point in its submission. It adds that it doesnt believe Mr L would have
accepted he had a gambling issue if it had asked about this at the time  but had it done
proportionate checks I think it would have been in the position to realise the lending would 
most likely be financially harmful, and so as a responsible lender it would have declined his
application, irrespective of what Mr L may have said.
It follows I think Tesco Bank was wrong to give loan two to Mr L.
I then set out what Tesco Bank would need to do to put things right. I asked both parties to 
respond with any comments by 22 December 2022. They both replied ahead of this 
deadline.
Mr L said he accepted the provisional decision. Tesco Bank did not. In summary, it does not 
agree that the checks for loan 2 were not proportionate. Its calculations showed Mr L would 
have had £828 net disposable income each month for loan 1, and £1241 at the time of loan 
2. Given this healthy disposable income and the fact it found no adverse data on the credit 
check it does not agree further checks were needed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Mr Ls complaint.
Tesco Bank argues based on the results of its initial checks for loan 2 no further information 
was needed. I have considered its full response to my provisional decision carefully, but I still 
think its checks were not proportionate. It argues, given all the information it gathered, the 
increase in revolving credit was not reason enough to do more, but I disagree and I dont 
think the debt increase was the only thing it needed to think about. 
This was Mr Ls second high-value loan being taken out over a long term  and he had not 
yet repaid the first. Tesco Bank argues that Mr Ls income had increased since loan 1, but I 
think this was further reason to carry out better checks given his credit card debt had 
increased from £5 to £8,027, possibly somewhat counter-intuitively in the circumstances. And I would remind Tesco Bank that CONC 5.2A.16 part 3) sets out that it is not generally 
sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by the customer without 
independent evidence. So I remain of the view Tesco Bank needed to do more before 
deciding to lend.
I set out in my provisional decision what I thought it was most likely better checks would 
have shown. Tesco Bank asked for copies of Mr Ls bank statements but I dont think that is 
necessary in the circumstances. Where customers provide personal information such as 
bank statements in the course of making a complaint, we dont typically share the 
information in full. This is in line the provision set out in DISP 3.5.9 which states that the 
Ombudsman may accept information in confidence (so that only an edited version, 
summary or description is disclosed to the other party) where he considers it appropriate. 
I am of course happy to provide some more detail in summary form about what the 
statements show to further support the finding I made in the provisional decision. Mr L sent 
in statements for the period January to April 2019. At that time he was spending on average 
26% of his salary on gambling transactions. And he was only in credit over that period for 
five days (31 December 2018 to 3 January 2019 and 28 February 2019). In addition, Tesco 
Bank would have seen that Mr L was now paying rent (£510 pcm) and his income was lower 
than he had declared. So had it completed proportionate checks I am sure, as a responsible 
lender, Tesco Bank would not have continued to think Mr L had the level of disposable 
income it had initially calculated, rather that there was a high risk Mr L would be unable to 
repay this loan sustainably. I note he went on to have repayment problems as soon as July 
2019.
It follows I am upholding Mr Ls complaint about loan 2.
 Putting things right
For loan two:
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been provided to him. Tesco Bank must put this right.
It should:
Remove all interest and charges from loan two.
If reworking Mr Ls loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Tesco Bank should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ls loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding Tesco Bank
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to
loan two.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from this interest. Tesco Bank should
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ls complaint in part. Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco 
Bank, must put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman