DRN-3724708
The complaint
Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms U complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their travel 
insurance claim. My references to Ageas include its agents. Ms U represents all the 
complainants. 
What happened
On 4 March 2020 Ms U bought an Insurefor.com single trip policy for her and her 
accompanying three travellers who include her parents. Ageas was the insurer. They were 
due to travel abroad from 30 April 2020 to 3 May 2020. The trip had been re-arranged from 
2019 due to personal circumstances.
On 10 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel to the 
relevant country due to the high number of Covid-19 cases. On 11 March the World Health 
Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 17 March 2020 the FCDO upgraded 
its advice to include all destinations. 
Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms Us flights were subsequently cancelled by the airline and a 
voucher offered. Ms U contacted the hotel to ask that the booking be extended by 12 months 
but the provider was only willing to extend to the end of December 2020. 
On 23 March 2020 the UK went into a full national lockdown which included severe 
restrictions on travel and movement of individuals as people were ordered to stay at home. 
On 16 April 2020 the UK government extended lockdown for at least another three weeks.
Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms U claimed on the travel policy for the flight and accommodation 
costs. Ms U said her parents have medical conditions and are vulnerable and she thought it 
unlikely that the Covid-19 situation would improve to be safe for them to travel to use the 
flight or hotel. After they claimed on the policy they received the flight costs from Ms Us 
credit card provider.
Ageas declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover the circumstances of the trip 
cancellation and also the policy excluded claims due to government restrictions.
Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms U complained to us. They said Ms U bought the policy before 
Covid-19 was a known problem so Ageas was unfair not to accept the claim. 
Our investigator said Ageas had fairly declined the claim. 
Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms U disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They said theyd 
not had the hotel stay theyd paid for so the cost must be covered. Ms U also said shed paid 
for travel insurance that hadnt been used. She wanted our investigator to contact Ageas to 
see if it would offer a refund of the insurance premium, which he did but Ms U didnt receive 
a response from Ageas. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about whether Ageas fairly and reasonably declined the cancellation claim 
which is what Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms U complained to Ageas and us about. Ageas has 
now told us it will contact Ms U direct about her request for a premium refund. If that doesnt 
happen or the parties cant reach agreement about the premium refund Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U 
and Ms U will need to make a separate complaint to us about that matter.
I think Ageas fairly and reasonably declined the cancellation claim. Ill explain why.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain 
information, including excluded risks, in a policy in a way thats easy to understand. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) for the policy says under the heading 
What is not insured:
Travel against Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice.
The terms and conditions of Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms Us policy say under the Cancellation 
and Curtailment section:
What you are covered for:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to 
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you cancel 
before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early during the 
period of insurance because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close 
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at 
your home; or
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms Us trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This 
means their claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy.Ms U has referred to a document Ageas sent her headed Important information about 
Coronavirus but the document doesnt say that as she bought the policy before 17 March 
2020 the policy covers covid-19 situations, as she suggests. The document says:
For any policies issued before 17/03/2020 cover remains as per the policy terms.
So the policy terms still apply and the claim isnt covered under the policy terms.
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms Us policy, but I dont 
think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found 
themselves in.
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of the 
case, taking into account industry rules and guidance and the relevant law.
The contract  the terms and conditions of the policy - between Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms U  
and Ageas says under the heading General exclusions applicable to all sections:
We will not pay anything directly or indirectly caused by
your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit of 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised 
against all, or all but essential travel.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. 
However, I dont think thats the case here. Thats because Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms Us 
policy also says under the heading What you are NOT covered for in the cancellation and 
curtailment section of the policy:   
claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
The exclusion is also in the IPID under the heading What is not insured.
The UK national lockdown which started on 23 March 2020 and wasnt eased until 10 May 
2020 was a prohibitive regulation by the UK government. As all of Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and 
Ms Us trip fell within that period they wouldnt have been able to travel on the intended 
travel dates. 
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U 
and Ms Us claim. I think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice 
and government restrictions in the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on 
the cancellation of the holiday.
So not only are the reasons for the cancellation of the trip not covered by the listed insured 
events under the policy, I also think its likely the prohibitive regulations exclusion Ive quoted 
above applied to the circumstances of the claim and I think Ageas fairly relied on the 
exclusion. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U and Ms U and I understand they paid for a hotel 
they didnt stay at. But I dont think their claim is covered under the terms and conditions of 
their policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds on which I can fairly ask 
Ageas to accept their claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K, Mr L, Mr U 
and Ms U to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman