DRN-4521829
The complaint
Mr B complains that Wise Payments Limited (trading as Wise) refuses to refund the money 
he lost to an investment scammer.
Mr B is represented by a third party, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as 
having come from him directly. 
What happened
Around the end of October 2022, Mr B saw an advert on a social media platform for an 
investment company Ill call F. The advert was endorsed by a well-known celebrity. Mr B 
was interested and filled out an online form. He was contacted by a representative of F on 5 
November 2022. Mr B deposited £224 using his credit card account. 
He was given access to an online portal where he could monitor his investments and was 
kept regularly updated by his account manager who promised him returns of 20-30% per 
month. After being persuaded with good initial returns, he decided to invest larger sums. 
Mr B used his bank account (Bank A) to transfer money to his Wise account. He converted 
those funds to Euros and made the following debit card payments (the disputed payments) 
to a well-known crypto exchange Ill call C: 
1. 17 November 2022 - €9,999
2. 28 November 2022 - €3,038.20
When Mr B tried to withdraw his profits, he was told he had to pay tax of £86,000 to release 
the £300,000 in his trading account. He was unable to do so and realised hed been 
scammed. 
Mr B complained to Bank A and Wise stating that neither did enough to protect him from 
financial harm. Bank A refunded 50% of Mr Bs loss. Wise issued its final response 
explaining it wouldnt be refunding Mr Bs loss. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators felt Bank As refund of 
50% of Mr Bs loss with interest was sufficient as Mr B ought to have reasonably seen the 
negative reviews about F when he says he carried out his research. He also felt the profits 
appeared too good to be true. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said it was a sophisticated scam and he deposited a small amount first 
to see how things would go before depositing larger more substantial funds.
 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why. 
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr B for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr B using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Wise. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud
Im satisfied that F were scammers. There is a credible warning published about them by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mr Bs experience of F also mimics common investments 
scams e.g. good returns followed by an inability to withdraw profits. 
Having concluded this was a scam, Ill now consider whether I think there were any 
reasonable grounds for Wise to have intervened in Mr Bs payments.
Mr Bs account with Wise was newly opened, so there wasnt much activity to compare the 
disputed payments to. However, I agree with our investigator that the payment to C was for a 
substantial amount and it would have been fair and reasonable for Wise to have contacted 
Mr B to check that all was well. 
Had it done so, and asked Mr B some simple questions about what he was doing, I have no 
reason to doubt that Mr B wouldnt have explained that hed come across F online and they 
were endorsed by a well-known celebrity. I think this would have prompted Wise to be 
concerned as there were multiple scam reviews about F, along with a warning that was 
published about them by the FCA. I think this would have reasonably prompted Wise to 
provide Mr B with a warning, explaining the common types of investment scams it sees and 
that F were likely scammers  given the credible information published about them in the 
public domain. 
As Mr B had only invested a small amount with F at the point of his initial payment to C from 
his Wise account, I think Mr B would have likely not sent F any further funds. And so, he 
wouldnt have lost any of the Wise disputed payments. 
Although Im satisfied a meaningful warning wouldve likely made a difference and prevented 
Mr Bs loss, I must take into account whether Mr B contributed to his losses. And if so, 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to reduce any compensation owed to him. 
Ive read Mr Bs complaint submissions on both his complaint against Bank A and Wise. In 
response to questioning from this service in relation to his Bank A complaint, Mr B said he 
carried out online research prior to investing with F and didnt see any negative reviews. As Mr B didnt invest with F immediately and there were several days in between Mr B 
coming across Fs advert and getting contact from them, I think its likely that he would have 
looked into them. A simple online search ought to have revealed the negative reviews that 
had been published about F prior to Mr B discovering them. I think a reasonable person 
ought to have been dissuaded from investing with F given the negative online reviews about 
them that indicated they were unprofessional and a scam. Ive also noted the FCAs warning 
was published prior to Mr Bs contact with F. And if he had looked into them online as he 
says he did, this ought to have been concerning to him  particularly as he was promised 
such substantial returns by Fs representative. Because of this, I think our investigators 
conclusions for holding Mr B equally liable for his losses is reasonable. 
As Mr B has already received back 50% plus interest of his overall losses from Bank A, I 
dont find that Wise are required to pay any additional sums to Mr B. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Bs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman