DRN-2563162
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B arent happy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have 
handled their claim under the buildings cover of their home insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs B noticed a leak in their kitchen ceiling. So they called RSA 
to log their claim on their home insurance policy. RSAs agent told them that leak repair 
wasnt covered under their policy. But that locating the leak and repairing any damage done 
by the leak could be covered. But that Mr and Mrs B needed to get a quote for repairing that 
damage approved first. And that quote needed to list out the damage separately.
 
RSAs agent told Mr and Mrs B to get a plumber to repair the leak first. The following day Mr 
and Mrs B arranged for their contractor to carry out the repairs.
A few days later Mr and Mrs B provided RSA with two invoices for works carried out the day 
after the claim. The invoice that covered the repairs to the kitchen ceiling was for £250. The 
other invoice was for the replacement of a flat roof for £2300. RSA requested a detailed 
report from Mr and Mrs Bs contractor to confirm why hed needed to fully replace the roof. 
In March 2020, RSA received a cause of damage report. But that only described the repairs 
to the kitchen ceiling and the leaking pipe. So it contradicted the earlier invoices, one of 
which was for the replacement of a flat roof. In order to work out what had happened, RSA 
called Mr and Mrs Bs contractor. He confirmed that the source of the leak was a waste pipe 
that he replaced for something between £200 and £400. RSA noted that this wasnt covered 
under their policy.
RSA then requested further information from Mr and Mrs B. They said that as the works 
hadnt been authorised by them before being carried out, they needed a full breakdown of 
the costs. They also needed an explanation about why the work was carried out before they 
could approve the claim. Although Mr and Mrs B did provide some further information, they 
didnt provide the requested detailed breakdown of costs RSA said they needed in order to 
approve the claim. RSA say they still havent received this.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the request for further information about their claim and the 
length of time their claim was taking. So they complained to RSA. RSA didnt uphold their 
complaint. 
So Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold their 
complaint. She felt that RSA had acted reasonably when theyd asked for further information. 
And because that information hadnt been provided, the claim couldnt be resolved to Mr and 
Mrs Bs satisfaction. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
At the very beginning of the claim, RSAs agent made it clear to Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative that the repair work would have to be approved by RSA before it took place. 
And that detailed quotes for the repairs would be needed to do that. She said, wed never 
ask you to get the work done first. The agent explained that the cost of repairing the leak 
wouldnt be covered under the policy. I agree that this work wouldnt be covered due to a 
policy exclusion of damage to the appliance or system which the water escapes from as 
detailed on page 22 of the policy booklet. 
RSAs agent explained that the cost of finding the leak would be covered. When asked how 
long the claim would take, RSAs agent explained that she couldnt advise on that, but she 
said the claim would be looked at as soon as RSA had all the information that they needed 
from the policyholder. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B wouldve known from the start that 
they needed to get quotes for the work approved by the insurer before the work was done. 
And that they would need to provide any information requested quickly if they wanted their 
claim to be resolved quickly. 
Near the start of the claim, RSA received invoices from Mr and Mrs B as follows:
Invoice 1 for £250
take down wet and damp kitchen ceiling where needed
supply and fit new plaster board
remove and dispose of rubbish from property
Invoice 2 for £2300
To strip off flat roof
To supply and fit new torch on felt  3 layers
Dispose of rubbish from property
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs Bs contractor provided a cause of damage report to RSA which 
said:
We investigated the kitchen ceiling to find the waste pipe placed above had burst
therefore, cause the non-stop leaking. This made the kitchen ceiling damp and
caused damaged to the ceiling as well as the floor. The kitchen ceiling had become wet and 
damp which therefore caused yellow stains. This meant work had to be done to the ceiling 
as well as the pipe itself. The damage to the ceiling and pipe was severe as most had to be 
replaced. It had caused further damage to the floor as the water had been leaking in 3 
various places. The total repair cost of this work was £2,300. £250 was charged for the 
labour.
I note that the information in the invoices conflicts with that in the cause of damage report. 
This is because the report doesnt mention any damage to the roof, but most of the costs 
relate to that damage. So its not surprising that RSA needed further information at this point.
RSA first became aware of how the roof was damaged on 16 March 2020, when they called 
the contractor. He said that the external waste pipe from the bathroom had been leaking for 
a while and undermined the felt on the roof, causing the leaks into the kitchen. He confirmed 
hed replaced the pipe and that the cost for this was between £200 and £400. He couldnt 
provide more detailed information at this point. RSA say theyve received no pictures of the 
roof and that all the work done on it has been carried out without their authority. 
Mr and Mrs B had the kitchen ceiling repaired and flat roof replaced prior to RSA accepting 
costs or agreeing quotes. In their claim notes, RSA noted that the claim would possibly be covered. But they asked for further information in order to validate the work needed and the 
costs. Mr and Mrs B didnt provide the requested specific breakdown of costs.
I can see that RSA was taking reasonable steps to resolve the claim when it requested the 
information. Mr and Mrs B hadnt yet provided the detailed information RSA needed about 
their claim. And the information that RSA had been given from the contractor was conflicting. 
So Im satisfied that RSA needed more information in order to process the claim.
I can see that RSA repeatedly chased for the information they needed. They requested a 
report detailing reasons why the flat roof needed to be replaced on a call with Mr and Mrs 
Bs representative on 20 December 2019. They sent a letter on 10 January 2021 requesting 
a cause of damage report for the flat roof. They received an e-mail explaining the cause of 
the internal damage, but not the roof. They asked Mr and Mrs Bs representative again for 
the cause of damage for the flat roof when she called them on 24 January 2020. When, on 
16 March 2020, they received confirmation of the cause of damage to the flat roof as a 
leaking waste pipe, they felt that it was unclear about how this had damaged the flat roof. 
So, on 16 April 2020, RSA requested a fully itemised breakdown of all works carried out.
And on 1 May 2020 they chased for this information. But it wasnt provided. 
In early June 2020, Mr and Mrs B complained to RSA. In their final response letter, which Mr 
and Mrs B say they didnt receive, RSA said: 
The work was carried out prior to any agreement on costs and any invoices provided as yet 
havent been clearly explained or itemised. As has been requested, we would need a full 
understanding of the costs incurred and the reasons why, in order to accurately validate your 
claim.
To be clear, RSA havent declined the claim. They have requested certain information that 
they need in order to assess whether they can pay the claim or not. And they say that the 
information they need hasnt been provided. So if Mr and Mrs B can supply the requested 
information, RSA could potentially progress the claim.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative called RSA again in August 2020. During that call, RSA asked 
her to provide the contractors contact details so that they could talk to him directly. When 
asked why they kept asking for information which Mr and Mrs Bs representative felt had 
been provided, RSA explained that although we have requested information multiple times, 
this is because we asked for it and didn't receive it, so we had to ask again. RSA also 
repeated that in order to proceed with the claim they needed the additional information that 
theyd repeatedly been asking for.
In early September 2020, RSA e-mailed the contractor to try to finalise the claim. They 
asked for the specific information they needed to be provided. But the contractor didnt reply. 
So, in October 2020, RSA wrote to Mr and Mrs B. They felt theyd done everything they 
could to access the information they needed, without success. So they closed the claim. 
They noted that they couldnt proceed until they got a full breakdown of the work that has 
been carried out. From all the evidence, I can see that RSA took reasonable steps to 
process the claim. And I cant blame them for any delays as I think it was reasonable for 
them to need the information requested.
In order for a claim to be successful a policyholder must follow the process outlined by their 
insurer. Under How to make a claim on page 55 of their policy booklet, it says: Youll need 
to give us any help and evidence we need about the cause of your claim and its value. 
So the policy booklet is clear that evidence is required before a claim can be processed. And 
the initial claims call also made that clear. So I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve known what they 
needed to do to have a successful claim.I know Mr and Mrs B dispute that RSA havent been given the information they said they 
needed. But I havent seen that information. And I cant say that the details RSA have 
requested are out of line with what I would expect an insurer to need in circumstances like 
these.
RSA have said theyre open to revisiting the claim if the information theyve requested is 
provided. From what I can see, they havent asked for any information I wouldnt expect 
them to need. So I cant say theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably. And given the delays to 
the claim have been caused by Mr and Mrs B not providing the requested information, I cant 
blame RSA for the delays either. So I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman