DRN-1510096
The complaint
 Mrs G has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (who I shall refer to as Ageas) did not 
cover a split seam/rip and damaged piping on her sofa which she feels should have been 
included under her extended warranty. 
What happened
  Mrs G bought a leather sofa in 2015 and she took out an extended warranty which covered 
the sofa for accidental damage and structural defects. In 2019, while still within the 
timeframe covered by her warranty Mrs G noticed it had a split on one of the seat cushions. 
Mrs G thought this would be covered under her warranty and made a claim on her policy. 
Ageas declined her claim. They sent a technician to examine Mrs Gs sofa who said the 
damage had occurred because something had contaminated the leather to become hard 
and split. They went on to say it was not a manufacturing defect because the split was in a 
high wear area (where you sit) and this is what has caused the hard leather to split. The 
technician also said the leather or vinyl piping may have split because it was placed too 
close to a heat source which would have caused it to dry out. The technician also said the 
sofa was not placed within 12 inches of a radiator or other heat source, nor was it placed in 
direct sunlight. 
Mrs G disagreed with this and felt the damage should be covered under her policy, so she 
brought her complaint to us. Our investigator agreed with Mrs G that the damage should 
have been covered under her policy and an insured event had taken place. He 
recommended Ageas reassess the claim in line with the policy, setting aside the reasons 
given for originally declining.
Ageas disagreed with these findings as they said the damage had been caused by Mrs G 
not cleaning her sofa, or using the wrong type of cleaning products and requested the case 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain my reasons.
In any insurance claim its for the customer to prove theyve suffered a loss caused by an 
insured event. Mrs Gs policy provides cover for accidental damage and structural defects, 
so Mrs G would have to prove one of these applies.
I agree with Ageas that its reasonable not to cover the claim as accidental damage. Mrs Gs 
policy says accidental damage is sudden and unforeseen but Mrs G found the damage 
while she was cleaning and hasnt identified a sudden or unforeseen event. Mrs G doesnt 
know when or how the damage occurred. 
However, I dont agree with Ageas that the damage isnt the result of a structural defect as 
defined by Mrs Gs policy and Ill explain why I think this. 
The definition of a structural defect is given as Faults found outside of the manufacturers 
guarantee period that have occurred due to faulty or defective components. It includes 
failure of any stitching as an example of a structural defect or manufacturing fault however 
the technicians report says, this is not a manufacturer fault this is from where the sofa has 
been contaminated and gone hard. Ageas explained the contamination could be from the 
sofa not being cleaned or being cleaned with the wrong products. There was no further 
information given about what the technician thought had contaminated Mrs Gs sofa. I have 
seen photos of the sofa and the damage and the sofa looks otherwise well cared for with 
nothing to suggest any abnormal use.  Mrs G said she cleaned the sofa with leather cleaner 
so I dont think any contamination could have come from this.
The technician also recorded that the sofa was more than 12 inches away from any heat 
source and wasnt kept in direct sunlight so I dont think either of these things could have 
contributed to the damage. 
I also think it is unfair for Ageas to say the damage has occurred because it is in a high wear 
area, which is recorded as where you sit. I think it is reasonable to use a sofa to sit on and 
there is nothing to suggest the sofa has been used in an abnormal or unexpected way in 
anything Mrs G has said, or in the technicians report.
Because of this I think it is fair and reasonable to think the damage has occurred because of 
a structural defect, which is included in Mrs Gs policy. The technicians report says that a 
new seat cover would be needed to fix this problem so this is what I think Ageas should 
provide Mrs G in line with her policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Mrs Gs complaint is upheld. 
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide Mrs G with a replacement seat cover for her 
sofa, in line with her policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman