DRN-1564041
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society gave them incorrect information 
about whether they could redeem their partnership mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a partnership mortgage with Nationwide, taken out in about 2001. 
Information provided by Nationwide says partnership mortgages were aimed at helping 
health workers buy properties in London. In exchange for a reduced interest rate Nationwide 
receives a share of any increase in the propertys value when its sold. 
The term of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage expired in 2018. Mr and Mrs H had made monthly 
payments which repaid the capital borrowed. However, the increase in the value of their 
property means about £122,500 is owed to Nationwide. This will have to be paid to 
Nationwide when the property is sold. Mr and Mrs H can pay this earlier if they choose.  In 
the meantime, its held in a deferred interest account and secured by a charge on the 
property. 
Mr H says he could have redeemed the loan for about £50,000 in 2009. He says he wanted 
to do this but was told by Nationwide he couldnt due to his poor credit history. Mr H says 
hes recently found out his credit history wasnt relevant, as it was an existing mortgage. He 
asks that Nationwide reduces the amount of deferred interest owed to £50,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said there wasnt 
evidence that Mr H was told by Nationwide that he couldnt proceed due to his poor credit 
history.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. Mr H said they were told on two separate occasions at different 
Nationwide branches that they couldnt proceed due to their bad credit rating.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
The terms of Mr and Mrs Hs partnership mortgage say that Nationwide is entitled to a 50% 
share of any increase in the value of their property. When the mortgage term expired 
Nationwide arranged for the property to be valued and calculated the amount owed as 
£122,500. 
Mr H says he wanted to redeem the mortgage in 2009, when it would have cost about 
£50,000. He says Nationwide told him this wasnt possible due to his poor credit record. I can see from the evidence provided that Mr H contacted Nationwide in 2008 and 2009 
about valuing the property and getting a redemption figure. Nationwides notes say he was 
thinking about his options, maybe switching to a normal mortgage. The notes say he decided 
not to proceed in July 2009. 
Nationwide appointed valuers in September 2009, to value the property. Its letter to the 
valuer said the customers had asked for the property to be valued as they wanted to sell the 
property and redeem the mortgage. 
A valuation was carried out in October 2009 and Nationwide wrote to Mr H about the cost of 
repaying the mortgage. To repay the mortgage at that point would have cost about £85,000. 
£50,000 of this was the equity share, and the rest was the balance of the capital borrowed.
In December 2009 Nationwide issued a key facts illustration to Mr and Mrs H for additional 
borrowing of £65,000 on a repayment basis. It says this would increase the total amount 
owed to about £99,000. A note says Mr and Mrs H are buying the final share of their 
property and the extra money is for home improvementsthey understand that on the main 
mortgage they will lose the discount on the rate. 
So I think Mr and Mrs H did contact Nationwide in 2009 about repaying all or some of the 
partnership mortgage. However, the additional borrowing wasnt taken out and the 
partnership mortgage wasnt repaid at that time. 
Theres nothing in Nationwides notes to say that Mr and Mrs H were told they couldnt repay 
the partnership mortgage due to a poor credit history.
The available evidence suggests Mr and Mrs H would have needed to take out a new 
mortgage to refinance the partnership mortgage. Its possible they didnt meet Nationwides 
criteria for a new mortgage. But there could be other reasons why the new mortgage wasnt 
taken out. Theres no evidence Nationwide treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs H agreed to the terms of the partnership mortgage, including that Nationwide 
would have a share of any increase in the property value. This share is calculated as at the 
date the mortgage loan was repaid  which was in 2018. They benefited from the terms of 
the mortgage, including the reduced interest rate. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Nationwide to write off any part of the deferred 
interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman