DRN-3043080
The complaint
Ms T says Scotwest Credit Union Limited mis-sold her two payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies.
 
What happened
Ms T bought the policies in 2003 and 2008 at the same time as taking out two loans.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for her, so Ill explain why. 
Ms T says that she didnt know that the PPI policies were optional and was told that the 
policies were compulsory, but I think Scotwest made Ms T aware that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
I say this because Scotwest has provided paperwork for the 2003 sale whch shows that the 
PPI policy sold with this loan was a seperate, optional product  and that Ms T agreed to 
take out the policy.
Unfortunately, the paperwork for the 2008 sale is no longer available  but this isnt unusual 
for a sale that took place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely. However, Scotwest has provided a sample of the type of agreement Ms T 
wouldve completed  and this shows that again the PPI was presented as optional, and 
Ms T wouldve needed to agree to take out the policy. And I havent seen anythign to suggest 
that Ms T wouldve completed different paperwork to this when she agreed to takeout her 
this loan.
Scotwest didnt recommend the PPI polcies to Ms T so it didnt have to check if they were 
right for her, but it did need to provide Ms T with enough information for her to decide if she 
thought the policies were right for her. 
Its possible that some of the information Scotwest gave Ms T about the PPI policies wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ms T doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policies didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it 
looks like the policies couldve been useful to her. So I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her taking them out. 
Ive taken into account Ms Ts comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case known as Plevin which involved the commission on a
PPI policy. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) then introduced new rules and
guidance for businesses to follow when looking at PPI complaints. The rules meant
businesses would sometimes have to give back some of the commission paid on certain PPI
policies. But this was about what lenders should do  and Scotwest isnt a lender. 
Ms T could contact her lender about the commission paid on the policies, but the FCA also 
set a deadline to make any new complaints about PPI, including complaints about 
commission. The deadline was 29 August 2019  so its likely a new complaint would now be 
too late.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman