DRN-1281805
The complaint
Mr G says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly
What happened
Mr G had 5 loans with Mr Lender between 27 June 2016 and 1 October 2018. The amounts 
varied between £250 and £400 and were set up to be paid over six monthly instalments. 
Prior to this complaint being brought to this service Mr Lender agreed that loan 5 had been 
mis-sold. It offered to write off the outstanding balance and refund the interest with interest at 
8% simple.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that this offer was not sufficient and 
that this complaint should be upheld in part. Specifically, he upheld loans 4 and 5. He 
thought that the pattern of Mr Gs borrowing coupled with him deferring payments meant that 
Mr Lender ought to have realised that Mr G wasnt settling the loans sustainably.
Mr Lender did not agree and therefore this complaint was passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Mr Lender needed 
to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that 
it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr 
Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include: 
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). There may even 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
In this instance, by loan 4 Mr G had taken out 4 loans within 7 months. The amounts of 
these loans were increasing. This suggests that he was using the new loans to pay off the 
gap in his finances caused by having to pay off the old loans. This coupled with him making 
use of the interest only payment option on all the previous loans suggests that he was 
having difficulty repaying the loans in a sustainable manner. 
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4 and 5 and Mr Lender should put things right.
My final decision
refund all interest and charges Mr G paid on 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 4 and 5 from Mr Gs credit file:
I understand that there may be a balance outstanding on loan 5. Once the interest 
and charges have been removed from any outstanding balance on loan 5. The 
business can use the above redress to repay the principal balance.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr 
Lender must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Mr Lender should pay Mr 
G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2020.
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman