DRN-1582737
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) wouldnt replace his toilet after 
damaging it during repairs.
What happened
Mr H had Plumbing and Drainage Plus home emergency cover with Aviva. He reported a 
problem with his downstairs toilet and Aviva attended to complete a repair. Because of the 
nature of repair needed, the plumber explained that the toilet might break. Mr H signed the 
disclaimer.
The toilet broke and the plumber phoned Aviva to check whether it would replace it. Aviva 
said the policy didnt cover sanitaryware.
Mr H complained to Aviva because he didnt think signing the disclaimer meant that Aviva 
wouldnt replace the toilet if it broke. He understood that it might break but Aviva would 
replace it. Mr H also complained that hed been left without a working toilet.
Aviva explained that the disclaimer didnt mean it would cover for a replacement, although it 
wouldnt have left Mr H without a working toilet. Aviva said its plumber had checked and 
there was another, working toilet in Mr Hs house. Mr H was unhappy with its response 
because the plumber hadnt been upstairs to check so couldnt have known. He also said the 
upstairs toilet was blocked so he couldnt use it.
Mr H wanted Aviva to refund his premiums, pay the cost of his new toilet and installation, 
and pay compensation for the stress he experienced.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Aviva had handled the claim in 
line with the terms of the policy and that it had tried to resolve the issue with the second, 
blocked toilet, which Mr H declined.
Mr H disagreed. He said the plumber lied about seeing the second toilet and that Aviva didnt 
offer to unblock it. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
The key issues here are that Mr H doesnt think Aviva made it clear he was signing a 
disclaimer, and that the plumber left him with a broken toilet without knowing that he had a 
second toilet upstairs.
Ive listened to the call Mr H made to Aviva on the day its plumber broke his toilet. In that 
call, Mr H confirms he signed a disclaimer, but he said he didnt realise it meant Aviva 
wouldnt replace the toilet if it broke.  I can understand why he might be upset about this, so 
Ive looked at the terms of the policy and thought about whether the possibilities were made 
clear to Mr H.
The policy sets out what is covered and what is not covered, and it clearly states that 
replacement of sanitary ware e.g. basins and toilet bowls is not covered. So Im satisfied 
that Aviva acted in line with the policy when it said it wouldnt replace the toilet.
Aviva provided a copy of the disclaimer Mr H signed. However, Mr H says he didnt know 
what the consequences might be. He said he assumed that if the plumber broke the toilet, 
that Aviva would just replace it. I think, on balance, that its unlikely the plumber wouldve 
said that, and Mr H doesnt claim that he did. I think its possible that the plumber wasnt sure 
because he called Aviva on the day to check. I think thats fair because I wouldnt expect the 
plumber to be aware of all the policies and what is covered under them. His role was to 
attend to the repair and, in the circumstances, make Mr H aware that his toilet, which was in 
poor repair, might break in the process. 
I think Mr H had a responsibility here, too. He says the plumber told him what he was signing 
and that it was because the toilet might break. But I dont think its fair to assume that Aviva 
would replace the toilet with a new one and Mr H couldve checked, either with the plumber 
or by looking at his policy before he signed the disclaimer. He could also have chosen not to 
sign the disclaimer, which wouldve meant the plumber left without completing a repair. This 
is covered in the terms of the policy, as follows:
Upon arrival at your property, the engineer will locate the source of the incident. If direct 
access is not available  the engineer will need to create access. If you want our engineer 
to do this, you will be asked to confirm it in writing while the engineer is at your property  
this policy does not provide you with cover for any damage which may be caused to  
sanitary ware
If you do not want our engineer to create access, we will be unable to progress your claim 
until you have arranged for access to be made.
So, Mr H wouldnt have had a working toilet downstairs at the end of that appointment and, 
whether or not Aviva broke the toilet, the outcome wouldve been the same  Mr H wouldve 
needed to buy a new toilet. I dont think Aviva has caused Mr H any additional loss, here, so 
I wont be asking it to pay towards the replacement toilet.
Its clear to me that Mr H feels strongly about the claim that the plumber saw the toilet 
upstairs and reported that it was working. He says the plumber did not go upstairs so he 
cant possibly have known about the toilet. He also says it was blocked so it was wrong to 
say it was working.
In the call to Aviva, the plumber reported that Mr Hs toilet had broken, he had signed the 
disclaimer, he had a second toilet upstairs and there wasnt anyone with a vulnerability living 
in the property. The plumber didnt say hed been upstairs and checked the toilet. In the call 
between Aviva and Mr H, Aviva reported that the plumber had seen the toilet and it was 
working. I think that was a misunderstanding on Avivas part. So, while I can see why Mr H 
wouldve been annoyed if the plumber had said hed seen the toilet, it seems that this matter 
is a simple misunderstanding. 
Ive thought about whether that matters but I dont think it does. Thats because Mr H did 
have a second toilet upstairs  he confirmed that  and its likely he wouldve told the plumber the same on the day of the appointment. So Ive thought about whether its likely the 
plumber knew the toilet was blocked. I dont think he did. If Mr H had told the plumber his 
toilet was blocked, and the plumber had broken the downstairs toilet, I doubt that the 
plumber wouldve left Mr H without a working toilet. Even so, I see that Aviva offered to 
unblock the upstairs toilet, but Mr H declined. So if he was left without a working toilet that 
day, it was Mr Hs decision and I cant reasonably hold Aviva responsible.
Overall, the circumstances of the complaint are unfortunate, but I cant see that anything 
Aviva did contributed to a greater loss than Mr H wouldve experienced if it hadnt tried to 
complete the repair. Regardless of who moved the toilet to gain access, its likely it wouldve 
broken, and Mr H wouldve needed to buy a new toilet. It seems Mr H was covered with 
Aviva for the blocked toilet upstairs, but he wouldnt let it complete that repair. So I dont 
think Aviva did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman