DRN-1888033
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) failed to properly 
compensate her for a faulty car.
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs M acquired a new car funded by a finance agreement with VFS and a 
deposit. Within a couple of weeks she encountered a serious problem and it required a new 
engine. The problem continued and VFS agreed to a rejection and the agreement was 
terminated on 5 August. Her deposit was refunded and VFS paid her compensation of £300.
She was given a courtesy car while the car was repaired, but Mrs M has explained this was 
a manual, unlike her car which was an automatic. She says that the whole experience was 
stressful and she doesnt consider £300 to be fair compensation.
VFS rejected her complaint so she brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He noted Mrs M only had use of the car for about one month of the three for which she paid. 
In addition she had to return the car on several occasions and the courtesy cars were not 
new.
He said he was pleased to see that VFS agreed that she could reject the vehicle and end the 
agreement which he considered to be the right response. He spoke to Mrs M and VFS about 
the courtesy cars and he was directed to the dealer, but due to the current pandemic he was 
unable to get any more details. Mrs M said the cars were a few years old and were manual.
He concluded that Mrs M was provided with courtesy cars meaning she could still drive 
whilst her car was being repaired and while these werent like-for-like he didnt think that was 
significant. He recognised the distress and inconvenience this situation would have caused 
Mrs M but he thought the offer of £300 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mrs M didnt agree and said that she had to cancel many work meetings due to her fear the 
car would break down. She had suffered stress and depression. She also had been without 
a courtesy car on some days and her children had missed out on some evening events. And 
she had to return and collect the car from the dealer. She suggested compensation of 
£2,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sympathise with Mrs M, but I dont consider I can uphold her complaint. I will explain 
why.
She had every reason to expect her new car to work perfectly, but it didnt. It suffered a 
major fault and required a new engine. When she got it back it was still faulty. In those 
circumstances rejection is the right option and I note this was offered quickly by VFS. It took 
the car back ended the agreement and repaid her deposit.
I agree Mrs M is entitled to compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has 
suffered, but not of the magnitude she has suggested. She hasnt specified how many days 
she was without a car, but it appears these were minimal. It seems that for most of the time 
she had a car and while it may not have been new or automatic it was sufficient to allow her 
to travel. I dont believe it was necessary for her to have a like-for like model.
She will have suffered some inconvenience, but I think the offer of £300 is a fair and 
reasonable sum.
My final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited] has already made an offer to pay £300 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should pay £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman