DRN-2699598
The complaint
Mr G complains that QIC Europe Limited declined a claim on his home insurance policy for 
damage to underground pipes.
What happened
Mr G said he had a problem with sewage water backing up into his property. Hed reported 
the problem to his insurer and QIC carried out an inspection. The report said there were 
three fractures and a fault with the air admittance valve in the loft. Mr G said the inspector 
hadnt gone in the loft.
Mr G said his insurer claimed the damage was due wear and tear over time. And he wasnt 
covered by his home insurance policy. But Mr G believes the damage should be covered as 
accidental damage. He wants QIC to honour his claim and fix the damage.
QIC said Mr G had been in touch to say the drains at his property had been malfunctioning. 
His local water board had advised that a pipe had collapsed and there might be a blockage. 
So QIC sent a specialist drainage company to have a look. 
After looking at its report QIC declined the claim. The report said ground movement had 
displaced the joints on the external pipes. And the air admittance value had become faulty 
due to wear and tear over a period of time. The claim didnt meet the criteria for accidental 
damage. And the policy didnt cover for loss or damage due to wear and tear or gradual 
deterioration. QIC said itd asked Mr G if he had any evidence to suggest something else 
had caused the damage. But he hadnt provided any. And QIC felt itd correctly declined the 
claim.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with QICs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She didnt think ground movement could be considered a one-off 
event that might cause accidental damage. Ground movement usually occurs over a period 
of time. And the policy didnt provide cover for gradual damage or wear and tear. Our 
investigator didnt think an insured peril had taken place. So she felt QIC had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances. And she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree. He felt the ground movement couldve happened suddenly. And the pipes 
wouldve fractured instantly  not over time. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding whether I think Ys decision to decline the claim is fair, I have to start by 
deciding whether an insured event has taken place. An insured event would be the cause of 
the damage. And it would have to be listed as an insurable peril in the policy document. But 
if the cause of the damage is noted as an exception, Im sorry to say a claim cant be made.
Mr G feels QIC shouldnt have declined his claim. He feels the ground movement identified 
as the main cause of damage to the pipes wouldve been sudden and unexpected. The 
pipes wouldve fractured instantly. So the fractures should be treated as accidental damage. 
And they should be covered by his home insurance policy.
Its unfortunate in cases such as this that policyholders will usually only become aware of 
damage to underground pipes once the system has stopped working normally. And I can 
appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mr G. Water was backing up into his house, 
especially after periods of heavy rainfall, and the unpleasant smell would be very noticeable. 
So Ive looked very carefully at everything Mr G and QIC have said.
I can see the specialist drainage company carried out a CCTV survey of the drainage line. 
Displaced joints were noted, and a cover was missing from an internal air admittance valve. 
That could cause the valve to stick and cause problems balancing the air and water on 
release. The report listed the cause of damage as ground movement for the displaced joints 
and wear and tear for the valve. 
Mr G feels the claim should be considered under the accidental damage to mains services 
clause of his home insurance policy. So Ive looked at the policy document to see if QIC has 
acted fairly and within the terms and conditions.
Accidental damage is defined as sudden, unexpected and physical damage which happens 
at a specific time; and was not deliberate; and was caused by something external and 
identifiable. Certain causes are excluded, including loss or damage due to wear and tear or 
gradual deterioration.
Mr G feels strongly that the damage to the underground pipes wouldve been as a result of 
sudden and unexpected ground movement. He believes the pipes wouldve fractured 
instantly  not over time. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest a sudden, one-off event has caused sufficient ground 
movement to displace or open the pipe joints. I think its more likely the ground has moved or 
settled over a period of time. Ground movement can cause pipes to misalign and eventually 
break. Underground property pipes are often closer to the surface than main public sewer 
pipes. And this can make them more susceptible to surface shifts or ground instability.
The expert report provided to QIC shows this is the most likely cause of the damage. And 
Mr G hasnt been able to provide anything to suggest something else has caused or 
contributed to the problem.
Mr G says this is the first time hes made a claim on his house insurance in over fifteen 
years. And I can understand his frustration. But I dont think QIC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining a claim for accidental damage to the underground pipes. 
I realise Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome. But Ive not seen anything to suggest 
an insured event has occurred. So I cant ask QIC to reconsider his claim. Its acted within 
the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman