DRN-3087679
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do more to prevent him from falling victim to
a fraud.
What happened
Mr M is a sole trader. In January 2021 he received an email from one of his regular
suppliers, based abroad, asking for payment of an invoice. The email requested payment of
£24,235.97 to a new account Mr M hadnt paid before.
Mr M, suspicious to reasons he was being asked to pay a new account, probed the supplier
via a series of email messages. These were exchanged with various members of staff he
was familiar with. Eventually, Mr M was persuaded that the request was genuine and went
ahead with the payment.
Unfortunately, it later transpired that Mr Ms genuine suppliers email address had been
hacked and he had in fact been corresponding with a fraudster.
Mr M reported the fraud to HSBC. It attempted to recover the funds from the beneficiary
account provider but was informed that no funds remained in the account. HSBC incorrectly
informed Mr M that the funds may, or would be, returned despite it already knowing that no
funds remained in the account. It informed Mr M of this error and paid £400 in compensation
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
HSBC responded to Mr Ms claim stating that it was unable to reimburse the funds lost. It
pointed out that Mr M had authorised the payment and itd therefore fulfilled its legal
obligation to process the payment.
Mr M remained unhappy with HSBCs response, so he came to our service to look into
things again.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but decided that HSBC
hadnt made an error. He said that the transaction didnt appear unusual or out of character
as Mr M made a similar sized payment to his supplier six months prior to the disputed
payment. He also felt that this followed a similar pattern of payments on his account, making 
it less suspicious.
As the Investigator found that the payment wasnt suspicious, he felt that HSBCs lack of
intervention in the payment wasnt unreasonable. He therefore found that HSBC shouldnt be
held liable for Mr Ms loss.
Mr M disagreed with the Investigators findings. He said:
He remained unhappy that HSBC provided wrong information regarding the recall of
funds leading him to provide incorrect information to his supplier.
The fraudster had used different names of genuine employees at the company,
making it seem very convincing.
He wanted HSBC to refund at least 50% of the loss considering the circumstances.
As Mr M disagreed with the Investigators view, the matter was passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 8 April 2022 I issued a provisional decision setting out that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
Here, it is common ground that Mr M authorised the payment in dispute and would be held
liable for it in the first instance. But that is not the end of the story.
HSBC has a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care, pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and to follow good industry practice to keep customers accounts safe. This
includes, amongst other things, identifying vulnerable consumers who may be particularly
susceptible to scams and looking out for payments which might indicate a consumer is at
risk of financial harm, such as unusual or out of character transactions.
Was the payment out of character?
Here, Mr M had transferred a significant sum from his account. This was going to an account
Mr M hadnt paid before and was an international payment.
Having reviewed Mr Ms statements, Im persuaded that this payment was out of character
and unusual when comparing it to Mr Ms normal account activity. Mr M seldom made
payments of this value from his account. And the only payment over £10,000 made from his
account was six-months prior to the payment in dispute.
HSBC has provided comment on this prior to submission of my provisional findings. Its said:
Requirement to demonstrate if a payment is characteristic for an account prior to
preceding with the transaction in real time wouldnt be realistic and would disrupt
many genuine customers journeys.
This is particularly important on business accounts where there would be an
expectation of larger payments to pay invoices. It said that it was mindful of the
potential legal liability on its part should it unnecessarily delay these payments.
The payment demonstrated a similar pattern of transactions in that Mr M was
regularly transacting with his supplier in a similar pattern to the payment in dispute.
Ive considered these points carefully, but respectfully disagree with HSBC regarding them.
As Ive already highlighted above, HSBC has a regulatory duty to be on the lookout for
unusual or out of character transactions and identify where a customer may be at risk of
fraud or financial harm. HSBC has received a number of assessments from this service
outlining these obligations and the sources from which they come from. These obligations
arent limited to personal accounts.
Nevertheless, Mr M was a sole trader. His account didnt reflect that of a larger business
regularly conducting substantial business transactions. So, I dont think HSBCs point stands
in this regard. Mr M made occasional higher value transactions, but rarely did he make bank
transfers for substantial sums such as the one subject to this complaint.I also dont find that the pattern of payments supports HSBCs argument. Mr M had made a
similar sized payment to the supplier six-months prior to the disputed payment, but this was
to the regular account hed paid the supplier to over a number of years. This payment was to
a new payee hed never paid before and was for a substantial sum, which was uncommon
for the account.
For the above reasons, Im minded to say that the transactions were unusual and out of
character for the account. And so it follows that I find HSBC should have intervened in the
payment and checked its legitimacy.
Would intervention have made a difference?
Frauds such as this are commonplace and well known amongst fraud and banking
professionals. Commonly referred to as email intercept frauds, businesses are regularly
subjected to hacks whereby their emails are compromised.
Taking this into consideration, HSBC would have been aware of such frauds and the way in
which they are committed.
The circumstances surrounding this complaint display common features for these types of
fraud. Mr M was contacted by a business via email he was genuinely transacting with and
was asked to pay an invoice to a new bank account. Had HSBC been aware of this, I think
its likely that it would have made Mr M aware of the common features associated with these
types of fraud.
This likely would have either alerted Mr M to the minor, unnoticeable change in the email
address, or prompted him to contact the supplier via another contact method to check its
legitimacy. I think either of these actions would have likely broken the spell of the fraud and
prevented the payments from being made.
Mr M was already suspicious of the change of bank account and would likely have only
needed to be made aware of the common features of these frauds in order to uncover it. And
so it follows that HSBC likely could have prevented the fraud and subsequently Mr Ms
losses.
Should Mr M bear some responsibility for the loss?
HSBC has made submission that there are valid concerns in respect of contributory
negligence considering that Mr M made the payments without taking adequate steps to
address his initial concerns. It hasnt specified in more detail what further actions it thinks
Mr M should have taken, but Ill address this point anyway.
Mr M has informed our service that he did have concerns regarding the request when it was
initially made. He said that hed always paid the supplier through the same account over a
number of years, and so the request was out of character. But Mr M did act upon these
suspicions and they did prevent him from initially making the payment.
Mr M thought that he was corresponding with the legitimate staff members he regularly
corresponds with. He says he was persuaded by the fact that the email address was
displayed as the employees namewhich was normal; the language used in the email was
in line with what hed expect; and the invoice provided appeared genuine. But Mr M was
unhappy he was being instructed to make payment to a new account.
Having looked at the email chain between Mr M and the supplier, he protests on a number ofoccasions to paying the new account and challenges the reason why the supplier was
making this request. However, Mr M was provided with a reasonable explanation regarding
currency exchange rates and losses caused to the business from payments made to their
previous account. The supplier also copied into the email the other members of staff
associated with the business that Mr M was familiar with. And these other known members
of staff confirmed the request made.
It is also important to consider that the genuine suppliers email address had been hacked by
the fraudster. This allowed the fraudster to analyse the language used by the genuine
supplier, access legitimate documentation associated with the business and mimic the way
the email was presented to Mr M. The combination of these factors allowed for a
sophisticated and persuasive fraud.
There is no evidence that has been provided to suggest Mr M is knowledgeable in fraud. I 
therefore find it reasonable that he was unaware of tactics used by fraudsters and the
mechanisms to mitigate these. He challenged the request thinking he was talking to the
legitimate supplier and was provided with a reasonable excuse by more than one member of
staff that he was familiar with.
For the above reasons, I find it unreasonable to conclude that Mr M was negligent and 
therefore partially responsible for the loss.
Mr M agreed with the finding made in the provisional decision, but HSBC asked for more 
time to consider the findings. Despite an extension to allow HSBC to respond, it didnt. It also 
failed to provide any further requests for extension or give any reasonable explanation for 
delay. Ive therefore gone on to issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comment has been made regarding the findings made, I dont intend to depart 
from the findings Ive issued in my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
HSBC should now go ahead and refund the money Mr M has lost. And as he, and the 
operations of his business, were deprived of those funds, it should also pay interest from the 
date the payment was made to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr M the £24,235.97 lost
Pay interest on this amount at 8% simple per annum from the date the payment was 
made to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman