DRN-4430612
The complaint
Mrs H complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard was irresponsible in its lending to 
her.
What happened
NewDay provided Mrs H with a credit card. She says that between 2017 and 2019 she was 
struggling financially which would have been seen from her defaults. She says that NewDay 
shouldnt have provided her with any further credit after she cleared her balance. She says 
her credit limit was increased on three occasions between 2020 and 2023 and she has got 
into more debt trying to meet the minimum payments. 
NewDay issued a final response in June 2023. It said that it had identified a Aquacard 
account opened in July 2013. It said that it wasnt able to consider the complaint regarding 
the account opening as this happened more than six years before the complaint was raised. 
It said that Mrs Hs credit limit was increased on three occasions  in March 2014, August 
2021 and December 2021  and that it was decreased in August 2018. It said it was 
confident that the limit increases took place in line with its policy and that it completed 
proportionate checks. However, taking into account information provided by Mrs H it upheld 
her complaint from the limit increase in March 2014 and provided details of the refunds that 
would be applied to her account.  
Mrs H didnt think the offer made by NewDay was acceptable and said while she hadnt 
accepted the offer it had taken some of the refund from her account. She said NewDay 
closed her account, and she still has a large debt to pay. 
Our investigator explained that following the case being referred to this service, NewDay had 
explained that the refund calculations it had previously quoted to Mrs H were incorrect. 
NewDay confirmed the proportionate interest refund should be £950.42 (not £610.47) 
meaning a further reduction of the outstanding balance was due. It said it hadnt yet 
refunded the late fees refund of £252 (previously said to be £240) and it shouldve paid £360 
(not £384) for the over limit fees, (but it wouldnt be looking to reclaim the £24 overpayment). 
NewDay apologised for the mistakes made in its calculations and offered to pay Mrs H £50 
compensation in addition to making the adjustments to her account.
Our investigator noted the refund breakdown and said that NewDay had confirmed that 
following the refund Mrs H would still have a balance outstanding. He thought the £50 
compensation offered for the inconvenience caused by its mistakes in the calculations was 
reasonable and said Mrs H could have this applied to her outstanding balance or paid to her 
directly. 
Mrs H didnt accept NewDays offer and our investigators view. She said that NewDay had 
only refunded her what she had already paid to it and deducted it from a balance she should 
never had been given. She thought her outstanding debt should be written off. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website. I have had 
this approach in mind when considering this complaint. 
In this case, NewDay upheld Mrs Hs complaint from the credit limit increase in March 2014. 
While I understand that Mrs H feels her debt should be written off, when a complaint about 
irresponsible lending is upheld, we wouldnt usually expect the business to write of the debt, 
as the customer, in this case Mrs H, has had the benefit of the money. We would instead 
expect it to refund all fees and charges and proportionate interest relating to the additional 
credit provided, from the point at which the complaint has been upheld. 
NewDay has provided details of the refunds for the interest and charges. It initially provided 
incorrect amounts for the refunds but then revised these amounts. It isnt our role to audit the 
refund amounts but instead to set out what we would expect the refunds to include. In this 
case I agree with the approach set out in NewDays final response letter being to refund all 
fees and charges from March 2014 and proportionate interest - that being the additional 
amount of interest paid as a result of the March 2014 credit limit increase. 
NewDay has confirmed that following the above refunds, Mrs H will still have a balance 
outstanding on her account. It has said that once this has been cleared Mrs H should contact 
it and it will remove any adverse information reported on her credit file after the first credit 
limit increase. This is in line with what we would expect to happen.
As NewDay made a mistake in the initial refund calculations it provided to Mrs H, I agree that 
it is reasonable to pay her compensation in acknowledgement of any upset or inconvenience 
this caused. NewDay offered to pay Mrs H £50 and I find this reasonable. NewDay has said 
that the compensation can be applied to Mrs Hs outstanding balance or sent to her bank 
account (subject to details being provided).
Putting things right
NewDay upheld Mrs Hs complaint from the March 2014 credit limit increase. It should, as it 
set out, refund all fees and charges from March 2014 and proportionate interest - that being 
the additional amount of interest paid as a result of the March 2014 credit limit increase. I 
understand that payments have been made to Mrs Hs account. 
Once the balance has been cleared NewDay should, as it has acknowledged, remove any 
adverse information from Mrs Hs credit file from March 2014 onwards.
NewDay should also, as it has offered, pay Mrs H £50 compensation for any upset caused 
by providing her with the incorrect refund amounts. This can either be used to reduce 
Mrs Hs outstanding balance or paid directly to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard should take the actions set out 
above, as it has offered, in resolution of this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman