DRN-3862338
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc declined a claim on their 
home insurance for damage to a glass patio door.
Ecclesiastical are the underwriters of this policy (the insurer). Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of its supplier. As Ecclesiastical has accepted its accountable for the actions of 
the supplier, in my decision, any reference to Ecclesiastical includes the actions of the 
supplier.
Both Mr and Mrs J are named policyholders on their Ecclesiastical policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr J, Ill refer mainly to Mr J from here onward.
Finally, Mr J bought the policy through an insurance broker and sub-broker. Most of his 
correspondence with Ecclesiastical has been through these brokers. However, for simplicity 
Ill refer mainly to Mr J rather than his brokers.
What happened
In April 2022, the outer pane of glass in a double-glazed sliding patio door was shattered. Mr 
J wasnt sure how this had happened but thought a bird might have flown into the glass. He 
contacted Ecclesiastical via his broker to make a claim. Ecclesiastical instructed its glass 
supplier to assess and clean up the damage.
Ecclesiastical initially led Mr J to believe his claim had been accepted by discussing repairs 
with his broker and appointing a loss adjustor to manage the claim. However, the loss 
adjustor asked the supplier to review its findings. Having done so, the supplier said the 
damage hadnt been caused by a bird or other impact. Instead, it was 99% confident the 
glass had shattered because of a hidden flaw or weakness in the glass, called a Nickel 
Sulphide Inclusion (NSI). 
Based on this, Ecclesiastical declined the claim under paragraph 4 of the General 
exclusions section of Mr Js policy. This paragraph lists various uninsurable risks, including 
latent defect[s]. Ecclesiastical said an NSI was an example of a latent defect so was 
specifically excluded under the policy terms.
Mr J was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He thinks 
Ecclesiastical is trying to avoid the claim and wants it to settle, as it originally agreed.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be partly upheld. He was satisfied 
that the suppliers conclusions about the cause of damage was most likely correct, and this 
damage wasnt covered by Mr Js policy. So he thought Ecclesiasticals decision to decline 
the claim was reasonable. However, he thought its handling of the claim was poor, and 
recommended it pay Mr J £75 to reflect this.
Mr J disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the timeline of the claim below:
11 April. Mr J made a claim to Ecclesiastical, via his broker.
13 April. Ecclesiastical instructed its supplier to assess the damage. It asked, Is this 
nickel sulphide or impact?
27 April. In an email to his broker, Mr J expressed frustration with the supplier: They 
have sent people over 4 times to do the same job (clean and measure) and still dont 
seem to have the required info.
3 May. The supplier sent Ecclesiastical its report (dated 29 April). This concluded the 
cause of damage was consistent with claim and gave two options for repairs, plus 
quotes for each. 
9 May. Ecclesiastical discussed the repair options with Mr Js broker and agreed on 
the second option for repair. It appointed a loss adjustor to manage the claim.
10 May. The loss adjustor asked Ecclesiastical to confirm the cause of damage. 
Ecclesiastical discussed this with its supplier. The supplier confirmed the damage 
was due to an NSI.
11 May. Ecclesiastical told Mr Js broker the claim would be declined. It confirmed 
this in writing the following day.
7 June. Following several weeks of discussions, Mr Js broker complained about the 
decision to decline Mr Js claim. 
22 July. Ecclesiastical completed its investigation and confirmed its decision to 
decline the claim.
27 July. An email from the supplier to Ecclesiastical on 27 July said it had recently 
spoken to Mr J and told him the cause [of damage] is unknown. Mr Js broker 
referenced this comment in a 5 August email to Ecclesiastical. 
11 August. An email from the supplier to Mr J said it was unable to conclusively 
confirm breakage has been caused by NSI.
Mr J has made several points about why he believes Ecclesiasticals decision was unfair. He 
says, in summary:
The supplier originally agreed the damage was caused by an impact then, under 
pressure from Ecclesiastical, changed its mind.
The shattered glass could have been tested for NSI but wasnt.
The supplier removed the glass door to avoid any possibility of testing or a second 
opinion.
There has been misconduct and collusion by Ecclesiastical and its supplier.
I understand why Mr J is unhappy. I think its most likely Ecclesiasticals supplier originally 
told Mr J this was an impact break, for two reasons:
Its report, dated 29 April 2022, concluded that the damage was consistent with 
claim  that is, consistent with Mr Js belief that the glass was damaged by 
something hitting it. 
Ecclesiasticals internal note dated 10 May says the supplier told us this was 
impact. I think its reasonable to conclude the supplier would have told Mr J the same thing.
Ecclesiastical had also started the process of settling the claim. It had asked its supplier to 
quote for repairs and had discussed these with Mr Js broker. All of this would have led Mr J 
to believe this was a relatively straightforward claim so I understand why its decision to 
decline the claim would have come as a shock.
But the key question for me is whether that late decision to decline the claim was 
reasonable. And, on balance, I think it was.
The instruction sheet Ecclesiastical sent its supplier on 13 April 2022, two days after Mr J 
made his claim, noted the following: Patio door is completely smashed. Is this nickel 
sulphide or impact? So its clear that Ecclesiastical wanted the supplier to check for an NSI 
from the outset. Whats not clear is why the supplier didnt do this or why Ecclesiastical 
hadnt checked this before it appointed its loss adjuster on 9 May. It was only then that the 
loss adjustor asked Ecclesiastical if the supplier had carried out a forensic test on the glass. 
Ecclesiastical went back to the supplier on this point on 10 May. The suppliers Head of 
Technical reviewed the claim file. He studied photos of the shattered glass and concluded 
this was an NSI for two reasons: first, a butterfly break (the brake [sic] at the centre splits 
into two adjoining wings said to look like a butterfly); second, the pattern made by the 
shattered glass (when toughened [glass] is damaged from NSI the pieces get larger the 
further away from the break). He said that both factors could be identified in the photos of 
the damaged pane.
I agree that the photos clearly show a butterfly break. I cant see a significant difference in 
the size of the shattered glass fragments but Im willing to accept the opinion of the 
suppliers technical expert on this point. 
Ive carried out my own research to see what impact damage to a double-glazed patio door 
might look like. From the images Ive reviewed, a typical impact break looks very different to 
Mr Js shattered door. In the cases Ive seen, a clear impact area, creating a dent or crater in 
the glass, is identifiable. I cant see that sort of clearly defined impact area in the photos of 
Mr Js door. 
Mr J has challenged the experts 99% confident point. Im satisfied that this is good 
enough. I think the only reason he isnt 100% certain is because he was unable to test the 
glass. Given his expertise  and the fact that I can make my findings on a balance of 
probabilities  I accept his conclusion that this was an NSI. 
Finally, Mr J is unhappy that the supplier disposed of the glass so hes unable to have his 
own expert test it. Again, I understand his frustration. As Ive indicated, I think the supplier 
should have tested the glass for an NSI given the instruction it received. But I dont think 
there was any reason for it to keep the damaged pane once it submitted its report. So I dont 
think there were any underhand reasons for its disposal.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied that the damage was most likely caused by an NSI in 
the glass pane. 
I now need to consider whether Ecclesiasticals decision to rely on the latent defect 
exclusion was fair. And again, on balance, I think it was. Ecclesiastical told us an NSI 
happens as a result of impurities still contained in a glass pane after its manufacture and 
toughening process. Ive found that NSIs are considered rare but accepted anomalies in the 
glass-making process. And, generally, glass manufacturers or suppliers dont offer a 
warranty against this type of damage. So I think the NSI can reasonably be considered a latent defect.
I have every sympathy with Mr J because the damage clearly wasnt his fault. However, I 
dont think Ecclesiasticals decision to decline his claim was unfair.
Ecclesiastical has acknowledged that it misled Mr J by discussing the repairs with his broker 
before it confirmed the cause of damage, and it has apologised for this. Ive considered 
whether it should do something more than just apologise. 
I think the timeline I set out above shows Ecclesiasticals handling of the claim was poor, for 
three reasons:
As it has acknowledged, it led Mr J to believe his claim had been accepted. 
It took more than six weeks to investigate and confirm its decision when, in the 
circumstances, I think it could and should have done this much more quickly. 
Mr J was still getting conflicting messages from the supplier after Ecclesiastical told 
him the damage was an NSI (for example, on 27 July and 11 August 2022). 
Ive considered Ecclesiasticals comments on this. However, Ive no doubt this caused Mr J a 
great deal of frustration. Im also conscious his patio door was left in a damaged state 
throughout this period which caused him safety and security concerns. In the circumstances, 
I think Ecclesiastical should compensate Mr J for its poor handling of the claim. 
Ive considered what this service has awarded in comparable circumstances. Having done 
so, I think Ecclesiastical should pay Mr and Mrs J £200.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think Ecclesiasticals decision to decline the claim was 
reasonable. However, I think it should pay Mr and Mrs J £200 to reflect the inconvenience its 
handling of the claim caused them. I recognise that Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed with 
my decision, but I wont be asking Ecclesiastical to do anything more than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Ecclesiastical Insurance Office 
Plc to pay Mr and Mrs J £200 to reflect the inconvenience it caused them in its handling of 
their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman