DRN-2683509
The complaint
Miss B and Mr S complain about problems they experienced whilst making a claim on their 
Aviva Insurance Limited car insurance policy following a road accident.
What happened
Miss B and Mr Ss car was involved in a road accident. Their car needed some repairs, so it 
was taken to one of Avivas authorised workshops. Aviva also authorised a courtesy car for 
the duration of the repairs through a car hire company [N].
Miss B and Mr S experienced a number of problems with the cars supplied by N, the details 
of which are well known and accepted by all parties, so other than a brief summary, I wont 
repeat them again here.
N had to supply three vehicles in total to Miss B and Mr S due to defects found whilst using 
them. Two had developed electrical faults and one also had a defective handbrake which 
caused it to roll into another car when parked.
When Mr S collected his own car following repair by the authorised workshop, he found a 
crack to the central display unit, and the drivers seat wasnt bolted down correctly.
Miss B and Mr S complained to Aviva who apologised for the problems they had 
experienced. It agreed to repair the crack to the display unit, and paid them £350 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience they had been caused by the problems with 
the courtesy cars and the repairs.
Miss B and Mr S didnt think this was enough so complained to our service. Our investigator 
thought that Avivas offer of £350 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances so didnt 
uphold their complaint.
Miss B and Mr S didnt think the compensation reflected the inconvenience and stress they 
had been caused, so as no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the problems that did occur shouldnt have occurred, and Aviva, as underwriters 
of the insurance policy, should bear responsibility for these. But whenever a problem was 
identified, Aviva dealt with it relatively swiftly, and Miss B and Mr S havent lost out financially 
as a result of the problems.
I also fully accept that the problems Miss B and Mr S experienced with the courtesy cars 
would have caused them stress, and I can really appreciate how these problems made them 
feel when I read their testimony to our service. Im sure it was also very inconvenient, with 
plans they had made having to be changed. 
It has been accepted by Aviva that the problems experienced by Miss B and Mr S caused 
them distress and inconvenience. But I must also note that whenever a car needs repair 
following an accident, irrespective of the fact that Miss B and Mr S were not at fault, there is 
inevitably going to be some inconvenience experienced when arranging a courtesy car, or 
the other logistics involved. But I certainly agree that the stress that they would have 
ordinarily been caused was increased by the problems they experienced during the claim 
process. 
So I agree that Aviva were right in paying them compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it caused them, but I also agree with our investigator that £350 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. This is also generally in line with our services approach 
when assessing how much a business should pay when it has caused distress, so as a 
result of all the above, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more.
 
My final decision
I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman