DRN-3070440
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined 
their claim for business interruption. Mr K, a director of T, brings the complaint on Ts behalf. 
What happened
In March 2020, the Government announced restrictions to combat the spread of Covid-19. 
These restrictions had a significant impact on T, as they were required to close during 
periods of lockdown. 
T held a business insurance policy with AXA. This included business interruption cover, so 
they made a claim. But AXA declined it. It said the policy primarily covered T for business 
interruption arising from damage. And that Covid-19 couldnt be considered damage by the 
policy definition. 
It said there was cover for the occurrence of certain kinds of diseases at, or within one mile 
of, Ts premises. But that Covid-19 wasnt one of the specified diseases the policy covered.
T complained to us, but our investigator thought the policy terms had been applied fairly. 
T didnt agree, so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident the government restrictions imposed on T had a considerable financial impact. 
With that in mind, Ive carefully reviewed the terms of their policy to decide whether AXA 
should have met their claim. Whilst Ive reviewed the policy in full, Ive only addressed the 
elements of cover most relevant to Ts circumstances below. 
The burden of proof initially rests with T to demonstrate, on balance, theyve suffered a loss 
that their policy covers. 
Damage
Both the core business interruption cover in Ts policy, and a number of the extensions to 
this cover (including Denial of access, Loss of attraction and others) are based on an 
interruption to the business which has been caused by damage to property. Damage is 
defined in the business interruption section as:
Accidental loss or destruction or damage caused by
1. an insured Cause under the Buildings or Contents section
2. damage to fixed glass or damage to the shop front where shown as covered in 
your schedule
One of the insured causes in the buildings and contents sections is accidental damage 
(which is described as any other damage). But Damage is also defined in the buildings 
and contents sections to mean accidental loss, destruction or damage. Im satisfied that, 
for the purposes of the core business interruption cover, and any extensions requiring 
damage to property, a physical loss must be proven. 
I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19, or the governments response to it, caused 
accidental loss, destruction or damage to the different types of property mentioned in the 
core business interruption cover or the extensions requiring damage to property. Ive thought 
about whether there are any other extensions that might be relevant to Ts circumstances. 
Murder, suicide or disease cover
This covers T for
the occurrence of any of the following specified human infectious or human 
contagious diseases suffered by any person at your premises or within a one male 
radius of it
acute encephalitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, chicken pox, cholera, diphtheria, 
dysentery, legionellosis, legionnaires disease, leprosy, leptospirosis, malaria, 
measles, meningococcal infection, mumps, opthalmia neonatorum, paratyphoid 
fever, plague, rabies, rubella, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, tuberculosis, typhoid 
fever, viral hepatitis, whooping cough and yellow fever.
As Covid-19 isnt one of the specified diseases included in this list, Im satisfied this 
extension of the policy wouldnt cover the business interruption caused as  result of the 
restrictions introduced by the Government to combat the spread of Covid-19.
I recognise Covid-19 wasnt something AXA might have known about when the policy was 
drafted and have considered this point carefully. But there are policies that provide cover for 
all notifiable diseases (which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and 
which does now include Covid-19) in a way that would encompass any new diseases that 
subsequently became notifiable. 
In contrast, Ts policy includes a list of notifiable diseases at a particular time. And theres 
nothing in the policy which implies that cover will be provided for diseases not on the list, 
including any new diseases which emerge, and / or that become notifiable at a later date. 
Overall, Im satisfied the list has the purpose and effect of limiting cover to occurrences of 
those diseases mentioned in the list. 
T have referred to the test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority. But this only 
affected claims made under non-damage business interruption cover. And it didnt seek to 
resolve coverage issues relating to clauses that have an exhaustive list of diseases which 
does not include Covid-19, as is the case here. 
Whilst I appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment to T, I havent found that any 
sections of their policy require AXA to cover their claim. So, I wont be asking AXA to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask T to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 Mike Walker
Ombudsman