DRN-4166701
The complaint
Mrs H, with the assistance of an appointed representative, complains that Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd (Blue Motor) irresponsibly granted her finance that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In October 2016 Mrs H entered into a hire purchase agreement (agreement 1) with 
Blue Motor for the acquisition of a used car costing £4,395. Under the terms of this 
agreement (everything else being equal) Mrs H was required to pay a deposit (to the 
dealership) of £395 and 48 monthly repayments (to Blue Motor) of £136.66 making a total 
sum repayable (excluding a final option to purchase fee of £10) of £6,954.68 at an APR of 
30.34%.
In October 2017 Mrs H entered into a hire purchase agreement (agreement 2) the details of 
which are unknown.
In March 2022 Mrs H complained to Blue Motor that it had acted irresponsibly in lending to 
her in October 2016 (agreement 1) and in October 2017 (agreement 2).
In the same month Blue Motor advised Mrs H that if she wanted to complain about two 
different agreements it would need separate letters of complaint. 
In July 2022 Blue Motor issued Mrs H a final response letter (FRL) in respect of agreement 
1 only. Under cover of this FRL Blue Motor said it was satisfied it had done nothing wrong 
and it wasnt upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
In May 2023 one of our investigators issued Mrs H with her view in respect of agreement 1. 
In summary she concluded that Blue Motor hadnt undertaken proportionate checks before 
agreeing to lend to Mrs H, but had it done so it wouldnt have concluded, nor should it have 
concluded, it shouldnt lend to Mrs H.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view and added that she didnt work for the 
employer Blue Motor has noted in its records and she wasnt a (council) tenant as noted by 
Blue Motor in its records.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see no reason why Blue Motor couldnt have considered and addressed Mrs Hs complaint 
about agreement 1 and 2 as one complaint and under one FRL. But given that it only 
addressed Mrs Hs complaint about agreement 1 under cover of its FRL dated July 2022 and 
our investigator only considered Mrs Hs complaint about agreement 1 under cover of her 
view dated May 2023 Ive restricted my consideration and findings to agreement 1 only as 
well. 
But I would like to make it clear that if Mrs H wants to raise a complaint about agreement 2, 
and assuming she hasnt done so already, then she can do so now.
Blue Motor (and Mrs Hs appointed representative) will be familiar with all the rules, 
regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out 
in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our 
website. 
Blue Motor has provided a copy of the credit check it completed. This check shows that 
immediately prior to October 2016 Mrs H was experiencing some financial issues and that 
she might be struggling financially.
 
Although Im satisfied that the content of Blue Motors credit check, in itself, shouldnt have 
led it to conclude it shouldnt lend, I think it would have been proportionate for it to have 
undertaken further checks into Mrs Hs income and expenditure to ensure it had a thorough 
understanding of her financial circumstances before doing so.
One of the ways that Blue Motor could have verified Mrs Hs income and expenditure was by 
reviewing bank statements. While Blue Motor wasnt required to do this, Ive reviewed 
Mrs Hs bank statements covering the period 10  September 2020 (no statements earlier 
than this having been provided by Mrs H) to 8 October 2010 (the date the agreement 
advance was made) to see what they say about her income and expenditure. I think this 
gives me a good indication of what Blue Motor would likely have found out had it completed 
proportionate checks. 
And having done so Im satisfied that these bank statements show that Mrs H had an income 
of approximately £1,100 a month (net) and approximately £400 of what could be described 
as non-discretionary expenditure, leaving approximately £700 a month to meet other 
expenditure and a monthly agreement repayment of £136.66. This means that I, like the 
investigator, am satisfied that if Blue Motor had undertaken further (and proportionate) 
checks it wouldnt have concluded, not should it have concluded, that it shouldnt lend to 
Mrs H.
Mrs H made all the repayments required of her under the agreement. This doesnt 
necessarily mean that the agreement was affordable. But in this case however I believe its a 
strong indication that it was.
Mrs H says that Blue Motor has recoded in its records an incorrect employer for her and an 
incorrect residential status for her as of October 2016. But in my view this has no bearing on 
the outcome of this complaint given what I say above.
I appreciate Mrs H will be disappointed but having taken everything into account Im satisfied 
that Blue Motor made a fair lending decision, and the agreement was affordable for Mrs H.
 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman