DRN-1105981
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr H 
says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002. The policy cost no more 
than 79p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Mr H in the event he wasnt 
working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months. The 
card and the policy were cancelled in 2006.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say 
this because Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement that Mr H signed in 2002 and I 
can see he chose to take out PPI. There was an equally prominent option to decline 
PPI  so he clearly had a choice. And as PPI would have appeared on his monthly 
credit card statements, had it been added to Mr Hs account without either his 
knowledge or his consent, I wouldve expected him to query this at some point in the 
following few months.
 
Mr H told us he had to take the PPI policy  he felt pressured into buying the policy 
when he took the credit card nearly 20 years ago. As theres no recording of the 
conversation, its difficult for me to know for certain what was said between Mr H and 
the Lloyds representative. And although I accept things may have happened as Mr H 
has said (that is, that he was pressured into taking the card and the policy), I find it 
just as likely that Lloyds requested Mr Hs agreement to add the PPI to his account 
and he has now (understandably given the time that has passed) forgotten agreeing 
to it. And had Mr H felt pressured into agreeing to take out the card or the PPI, then it 
seems to me he wouldve cancelled the card and, or the PPI much sooner than he 
did. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover  he told us he was employed and in good health. And he seems to have had a 
need for the cover  he told us his employer only provided discretionary sick pay and 
he only had a small level of savings. And although he says his family couldve helped 
him meet his payments, individual circumstances can easily change so help like that 
is never guaranteed.
 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said about the sale of the PPI itself  but these points 
dont change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman