DRN-2252261
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by Santander UK Plc 
(formerly Abbey National) between 1994 and 2001. 
Mr W is being represented by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr W was advised to invest a total of £79,000 into the Abbey National Life Managed Fund, 
within investment bonds, on four occasions:
1994 - £25,000
1996 - £2,000
1997 - £46,000
2001 - £6,000
In 1997 Mr W was also advised to invest £9,000 in a Personal Equity Plan (PEP), in the UK 
Growth Fund. Mr W surrendered all these investments between 2002 and 2008, receiving 
£116,752.06 from the bonds and £11,271.42 from the PEP.
In 2019, the CMC complained to Santander on Mr Ws behalf. In short, they said the advice 
was unsuitable because:
Mr W had not invested before 1994, and too much of his capital was invested in a 
fund that was too high risk
The investments werent diverse enough, as most of the money was invested in the 
same fund
As he was self-employed, Mr Ws income could fluctuate between £12,000 and 
£33,000, so it was unsuitable for him to be advised to take these risks with his money
Santander explained they had little evidence from the meetings, other than the application 
forms for each of the investments into the bond, and documents from advice given in 2007 
(which isnt the subject of this complaint). Santander said the length of time the investments 
were held shows they were affordable and the information they have about the other 
investments Mr W has had over the years, shows the level of risk involved was suitable. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
felt there wasnt enough evidence showing what was discussed at the points of sale to fairly 
conclude the advice was unsuitable. 
The CMC didnt agree  they felt it was clear the amount of risk involved was inappropriate 
for a first-time investor, regardless of the lack of paperwork. They also felt the ability to hold 
the investment for that length of time doesnt prove the investment was suitable. So the file 
was passed to me to consider.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has explained they dont have the usual documents, like fact finds or suitability 
letters, that show what was discussed from any of the instances of advice being complained 
about. I dont think this is surprising given the sales took place more than 19 years ago and 
the investments were surrendered more than 12 years ago. Its not unusual to decide a case 
based on incomplete evidence. When that happens, Im required to decide matters based on 
what I consider is more likely than not to have happened, in light of the evidence I do have 
and the wider circumstances. And so this is what Ive done here. 
Santander has said it considers the Managed Fund to be medium risk and from the key 
features document about the bond, I can see this was made up of a mixture of UK and 
overseas equities and fixed interest securities. Santander has said the UK Growth fund in 
the PEP was a lower risk fund but havent been able to provide the fund fact sheet showing 
the make up of that fund in 1997. 
The CMC has given us some information about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of the first 
sale in 1994. Theyve said Mr W was 52 and self-employed, and that he had saved around 
£35,000 over the previous couple of years. His earnings would on average be between 
£20,000 to £25,000 but could be as low as £12,000 depending on the availability of work. I 
havent been given any further information about his circumstances at later points, other than 
what is set out in the documents from 2007.
While the advice given in 2007 is not the subject of this complaint, the documents from that 
time do provide some insight as to Mr Ws circumstances  so I have taken them into 
account. They show that Mr W owned his home outright, and a second property that was 
rented out, providing income of £6,000 per year. He was retired, with income of £1,000 per 
month, made up of the rental income and his pension. He had around £236,000 in savings 
and investments, £123,497 of which was invested across four bonds, including one with a 
different company. The rest of the money he held on deposit and most of it had come from a 
recently matured investment. 
Ive also taken into account the suitability letter and fact find from this advice. They appear to 
reflect a detailed conversation with Mr W. They show that he understood the nature of 
investments and different levels of risk involved and he was clearly involved in the decision-
making process in 2007. In my opinion these documents show that he was comfortable with 
taking risk at that time. I appreciate his attitude to risk could very well have changed or 
developed over the years, and so I acknowledge that what was true in 2007 may not have 
been true in earlier years. However, I do think it gives important context to the previous 
investments. 
In particular, I think that the growth of his overall wealth by 2007 when compared with 1994, 
indicates that throughout the relevant period, Mr W continued to be able to both save and 
invest his money. Im satisfied that, in that regard, Santanders advice wasnt unaffordable 
for Mr W  and Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence that Mr W shouldve been 
advised to invest less or that he was left with insufficient cash reserves. I dont agree the fact 
that Mr W had a variable income means the advice he received was inherently unsuitable. 
And while I agree with the CMC that simply holding an investment for a long time doesnt mean that it was suitable, it does suggest that the amount of money he invested was 
affordable  otherwise Id have expected him to have encashed the investments sooner. I 
think it also suggests, given the facts of this particular case, that Mr W was happy to take a 
certain amount of risk during those years, in the pursuit of higher returns. Im persuaded that 
the fact that Mr W held on to the investments as long as he did indicates at the very least 
that the performance of the investments broadly matched what he was told when they were 
sold to him. 
Its clear the CMC and Mr W strongly believe that the risk of the Managed Fund and the 
Growth Fund to have been excessive. But whilst Im unable to comment on the Growth 
Fund, it seems to me that the Managed Fund contained between 25% to 30% lower risk 
assets  including bonds, gilts, cash and the like. The equity content appears to be 
predominantly in the UK and Europe  and looking at the top ten holdings, the fund was 
focusing on large cap companies. In my view, given Mr Ws circumstances at the time 
(including the cash he likely had on deposit throughout this period) and his likely appetite for 
risk, I dont agree that this fund exposed him to an inherently unsuitable or excessive level of 
risk. I think this broadly matched what it seems likely Mr W was after  a fund that gave him 
a good level of exposure to the stock market, thus enabling his money to grow, while at the 
same time ensuring that around a third of his capital was in investments which would be 
unlikely to lose their value. 
Given the lack of any other information about Mr Ws objectives or risk appetite at the time, I 
dont think it would be fair to say the investment involved too much risk, simply because he 
was a first-time investor in 1994. And given everything Ive said, Im persuaded that, on 
balance, Mr W was given suitable advice between 1994 and 2001  Im therefore not 
satisfied this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman