DRN-3354398
The complaint
Mrs G complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided loans that 
were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs G took out loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
Repayment
1 20/07/2020 £250 18 months £57.14
2 25/01/2021 £400 18 months £91.42
Mrs G brought her complaint to us when she wasnt able to resolve it with Loans 2 Go. In 
brief summary, Mrs G felt that Loans 2 Go didnt complete sufficient checks before lending to 
her and so she struggled to make the repayments.. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Gs complaint about both loans and set out directions indicating 
what she thought Loans 2 Go should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that it had been entitled to 
rely on the information it had gathered and it didnt agree that it had acted irresponsibly 
towards Mrs G in any way. Loans 2 Go also said that when it compared credit files for both 
loans it saw that Mrs Gs credit report had significantly improved by loan 2 so it felt that 
providing loan 1 had assisted Mrs G to settle other accounts. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. Ive kept all these 
things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 Go relied on when it 
decided to lend to Mrs G. 
Loan 1
Loans 2 Go asked Mrs G about her income and expenses and carried out credit checks. 
Loans 2 Go used an online income checker to verify that Mrs Gs minimum monthly pay was 
around £1,165  broadly in line with the figure Mrs G had declared. Relying on this figure for 
her net monthly income and taking into account what Mrs G had said about her monthly 
expenditure, and what its credit checks showed, it calculated that Mrs Gs monthly 
expenditure was approximately £987. It also allowed for a buffer of 10% of her verified 
expenditure to account for any fluctuations in Mrs Gs monthly income or expenditure. 
Using this approach, Loans 2 Go calculated that Mrs G shouldve been able to afford the 
monthly repayment on this loan  and that seems a broadly reasonable conclusion to me 
based on these figures. 
I think its fair for Loans 2 Go to say that what could be seen on the credit checks it acquired 
wasnt especially worrying. It appeared that Mrs G had taken out two loans already during 
the previous year  including a bank loan around three months earlier. But she had also paid 
off a bank loan just a few months before that and her payments on this new bank loan were 
up to date. She had around £500 credit available on a mail order account and was 
maintaining that account well. She seemed to be comfortably within her agreed overdraft 
limit on a current account and this too showed payments had been kept up to date 
throughout the two year reporting period covered on the credit report. None of Mrs Gs other 
active accounts showed any payment problems in the period running up to her applying for 
loan 1. 
There was a county court judgement shown on Mrs Gs credit file but I think its fair to say 
that Loans 2 Go was entitled to think this didnt provide much useful information about 
Mrs Gs present financial situation. I say this because the entry on her credit file dated back 
almost 6 years  in a few months time it wouldnt any longer even appear on her credit file 
and there was no real incentive for Mrs G to make repayments to this debt now. So, whilst it 
was clear that Mrs G had evident money problems in the past, I think Loans 2 Go was 
reasonably entitled to take a view this didnt necessarily mean that she was still in serious 
financial difficulty. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough overall for Loans 2 Go to make a fair 
decision to lend  or whether, as our investigator suggested, that it should have prompted 
Loans 2 Go to do more in-depth checks. 
Loans 2 Go had increased the amount Mrs G said she was spending each month after doing 
its own credit checks. So I've taken into account Loans 2 Go was aware that some 
information from Mrs G didnt look like it had been entirely accurate  and potentially this 
called into question other information she had provided about her spending and her financial 
situation generally. But set against this was the fact that the credit checks Loans 2 Go obtained showed admittedly limited information but, significantly, nothing unduly concerning 
about her present financial situation. I think Loans 2 Go could see that Mrs G had a history 
of taking out and repaying short-term and unsecured loans  on the face of it, that raised a 
question about why Mrs G needed to do that and why she still needed this loan. It wasnt 
clear how she intended to use the money. But it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of 
high cost loan to have a credit history showing other borrowing or even an impaired credit 
record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to 
decline a loan application or think more in-depth checking was needed.
On balance, bearing in mind this was Mrs Gs first loan application to Loans 2 Go, she was 
applying for a relatively small loan amount and given the 18 months term and the relatively 
low level of monthly repayments compared to her take home pay, I think the checks 
Loans 2 Go did for loan 1 were, broadly speaking, proportionate in the circumstances. 
Thinking about loan 1 overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that it was 
unreasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude that the loan it provided looked like it ought to be 
affordable for Mrs G or that there was enough other information to show that loan 1 would be 
unlikely to be sustainably affordable for her over the loan term. So, for these reasons, I dont 
plan to uphold Mrs Gs complaint about loan 1. 
  
Loan 2
Loans 2 Go carried out the same affordability and information gathering process as it had 
done for loan 1  it recorded a drop in Mrs Gs verified income but it also saw a fall in her 
overall expenditure figures. After taking into account its credit checks Loans 2 Go thought 
that the loan still looked affordable for Mrs G. But I agree with our investigator about this loan 
and I dont think Loans 2 Go acted fairly when Mrs G applied for loan 2. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
I think the information Loans 2 Go saw in its credit checks shouldve prompted Loans 2 Go, 
as a responsible lender, to enquire more closely into Mrs Gs finances. I say this because 
she appeared to be continuing a borrowing pattern that was evident from looking at the 
credit checks Loans 2 Go did which reflected a history of taking out expensive loans. Mrs G 
had by now taken out five new credit accounts within the previous 12 months (compared to 
just two during the preceding 12 months when she applied for loan 1). I dont think this 
suggested any overall improvement in her finances as Loans 2 Go has suggested. Mrs G 
hadnt said why she needed the loan and it wasnt clear why she would still need to take out 
this sort of expensive loan or why she appeared to be a habitual user of high cost credit. 
And there were other signs that were concerning. Loans 2 Go couldve seen that she also 
had arrears on a utility account and I think Loans 2 Go should have recognised that not 
being able to pay essential household bills is potentially a hallmark of someone in serious 
financial difficulty. I cant see from the notes it sent me that this was either questioned or 
explained. It was also evident that Mrs G was making full use of her overdraft and up to the 
account limit on her current account. 
For these reasons I think Loans 2 Go needed to do further checks to ensure it had a fuller 
understanding of Mrs Gs finances before it could be reassured that loan 2 would be 
sustainably affordable. I dont think the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend on this 
occasion were proportionate in these circumstances. So I've looked at what I think a 
proportionate check mightve shown had Loans 2 Go looked more closely into Mrs Gs 
finances at the time.  
Mrs G has sent me her bank statements covering the period and this shows information that 
I think Loans 2 Go is likely to have discovered for itself if it had done what I consider would 
have been a proportionate check when Mrs G applied for loan 2. I think Loans 2 Go would have seen that Mrs G was relying on multiple loans from short-term 
loan and high-cost credit providers  by my estimate, she borrowed around £600 during 
December 2020 and she was making repayments to at least four other providers of 
expensive short-term loans and high cost credit. Despite this injection of cash into her bank 
account, Mrs G was regularly incurring daily overdraft interest charges and she still ended 
the month almost £150 overdrawn.  
I think this shows that, in reality, Mrs Gs finances were under significant pressure and there 
were clear signs that not only was she making no real inroads into her existing debt she was 
taking on new credit commitments  all hallmarks that Mrs G was in serious financial 
difficulties. I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that Mrs G had become reliant on 
expensive forms of borrowing and recognised the signs that she was dependent on 
obtaining new credit in order to fund her day to day costs and meet her other credit 
commitments. 
To sum up, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve seen enough, had it done a proportionate check, to 
have concluded that loan 2 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mrs G and so it 
shouldnt have provided it. So for these reasons, Im planning on upholding Mrs Gs 
complaint about loan 2. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both parties have confirmed safe receipt of my provisional decision and told me they have 
nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Id like to thank both 
parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. Given that Ive not 
received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, 
I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Loans 2 Go should pay any additional redress. Mrs G 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 Go 
acted unfairly towards Mrs G in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs G to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. She has however had to pay extra for lending 
that shouldnt have been provided to her. 
Loans 2 Go has told me that both these loans have been repaid already. So, Loans 2 Go 
should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs G received as a result of having been given 
loan 2. The repayments Mrs G made should be deducted from this amount.If this results in Mrs G having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Whilst its fair that Mrs Gs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Loans 2 Go should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file regarding loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps set out above 
to put things right for Mrs G.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman