DRN-4279466
Complaint
Miss H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly lent a personal 
loan to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
NatWest provided Miss H with a loan for £7,500.00 in July 2022. This loan had an APR of 
15.72% and was due to be repaid in 30 monthly instalments of £303.31.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss H and NatWest had told us. He didnt think that 
NatWest unfairly provided this loan to Miss H and didnt recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. Miss H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Hs complaint.
NatWest needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Miss H could afford to make her repayments before providing 
this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
NatWest says it approved Miss Hs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out which showed Miss Hs existing commitments 
were well maintained at the time. In NatWests view all of the information it gathered showed 
that Miss H could comfortably afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the 
other hand, Miss H has said her existing indebtedness meant that she shouldnt have been 
provided with this loan. Ive carefully thought about what Miss H and NatWest have said. 
Its clear that NatWest obtained a reasonable amount of information before proceeding with 
Miss Hs application. And this information does appear to suggest that the loan repayments 
were affordable for Miss H. I accept that Miss H may not have gone on to use the funds in 
the way that she told NatWest she would. 
However, NatWest could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. It wont have known that Miss H wouldnt have used the funds to 
reduce her indebtedness  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on assurances 
from Miss H that she would consolidate debts these funds. So Im satisfied that the proceeds 
of this loan could and should have been used to reduce Miss Hs balances on more 
expensive credit. 
And as this was a first loan NatWest was arranging for Miss H, there wasnt a history of  
Miss H obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way she 
committed to either. So NatWest was reasonably entitled to believe that Miss H would be left 
in a better position after being provided with this loan.
Given the circumstances, Id expect NatWest to have a reasonable idea of Miss Hs income 
and committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here. Furthermore, having looked 
through the bank statements for Miss Hs account with NatWest there isnt anything to 
suggest that the loan payments would clearly have been unaffordable even if Miss H had 
done what she committed to do. As this is the case, I dont think that NatWest did anything 
wrong when providing this loan to Miss H - it carried out proportionate checks and 
reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that NatWest didnt treat Miss H 
unfairly or unreasonably when lending to her. And Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint. I 
appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Miss H. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint, I would remind NatWest of its continuing 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration should Miss H be experiencing 
difficulty and it choose to collect payments from her, once her payment freeze ends.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman