DRN-3687247
The complaint
Mr H complains that Argentis Financial Planning Limited unreasonably delayed the 
implementation of his requests for a lump sum withdrawal and change of investment strategy 
causing him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr H had been a client of a firm of financial advisers Ill refer to as G. A fact find of his 
circumstances was last compiled in February 2019. My understanding is customers of G 
including Mr H were transferred to a firm called Harwood, which is a trading style of Argentis 
Financial Planning Limited (Argentis), so Ill just refer to Argentis in the decision. 
In January 2021 Mr H contacted Mr C at Argentis to say he understood he was now his 
adviser following the transfer of business from firm G. Mr H had retired and was receiving 
income from a defined benefit (DB) pension. As well as some other investments, he also 
had a personal pension plan valued at around £1.4m, held with Old Mutual Wealth (OMW) 
in two funds ending 626 and 627. He was due an annual meeting to review his retirement 
provision, the performance of his investments and confirm his risk profile. He also wanted to 
confirm Argentis fees following the transfer.
In the meeting Mr H said he needed £25,000 from his OMW pension for home 
improvements. And going forward he wanted to use it to supplement his income now hed 
stopped working. Argentis said it would produce a report setting out its advice. Mr H said he 
felt comfortable with his risk profile of cautious moderate. Having reflected further, on 10 
February 2021 Mr H said he thought he could take a little more risk (to moderate) to benefit 
from the anticipated market recovery. He confirmed he wished to crystallise a total of 
£100,000 of his OMW pension (£50,000 from each fund) in order to release a tax-free sum 
of £25,000 (£12,500 from each), with the remainder placed into a drawdown arrangement. 
Mr H returned the signed withdrawal paperwork to Argentis promptly on 3 February 2021, 
but despite him chasing progress on several occasions, and in March stressing he was keen 
for the investment changes to be made before the end of the tax year, the recommendation 
report wasnt produced until 13 April 2021. The report recommended the course of action Mr 
H wished to take, (releasing a tax-free lump sum from each plan and increasing the risk 
profile of his investment strategy). Mr H signed the instructions for the portfolio restructure on 
21 April 2021, but the tax-free cash (TFC) wasnt released until 17 and 18 May 2021, with 
the fund switches taking place about five days later. 
Overall the process took around 16 weeks, which was far longer than the six-to-eight weeks 
Mr H had experienced previously. In that time the cautious-moderate funds he remained in 
performed worse than the moderate funds he should have been switched to, which caused 
him a financial loss.
Mr H complained to Argentis, which admitted things had taken a bit longer than they should, 
and some other clients had been prioritised ahead of him, due to pressure caused by the 
end of the tax year. It said the process should have been completed around 8 April, but 
Argentis said the delay hadnt led to a financial loss, as the fund value on 8 April wouldve 
been lower. It offered £250 for the poor service, which it later increased to £500. 
Mr H wasnt convinced by this and ended his relationship with Argentis. He referred his 
complaint to this service in November 2021. One of our investigators reviewed the timeline 
provided by Argentis, and considered 8 April was too slow. He said Mr H shouldve had his 
payments around 17 March and the fund switches carried out the following day. So he said 
Argentis should carry out a loss calculation using those dates, (meaning Mr H wouldve 
received the funds in the 2020/21 rather than 2021/22 tax year) and to pay any loss to Mr H. 
He didnt agree the delay meant Mr H had lost the opportunity to invest his TFC in an ISA, as 
hed seen evidence to show Mr H had already utilised his allowance for 2020/21. But he 
agreed with the £500 for the trouble and upset Mr H had experienced.
Mr H accepted the investigators outcome, but Argentis didnt. It said the investigator had 
used an unrealistic timescale based on how long things generally take during the year, not at 
the end of the tax year. Producing a recommendation report takes around a month due to 
the amount of work it involves. While Mr H said he was keen to get things resolved quickly, 
hed said the funds were for home improvements during the year. He hadnt let them know 
there was any particular urgency to receive the funds before the end of the tax year, which is 
a busy period for financial firms, plus there was the impact of the Easter holidays. So it had 
given priority to those clients who needed end of tax-year advice. It stood by the comparison 
date of 8 April 2021, which didnt show a financial loss.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 in which I considered:
Whether Argentis had taken an unreasonably long time to complete Mr Hs annual 
review. 
If it had been fair of Argentis to prioritise other clients over Mr H, so that his release 
of TFC and change of investment strategy happened too late to fully benefit from the 
anticipated market recovery. 
And if so, when the process ought to have been completed.
I made the following findings (in summary):
I didnt think Mr Hs report should have been treated as urgent, but he shouldnt have 
been disadvantaged simply because Argentis didnt have the capacity to meet its 
usual timescales. 
I didnt think it was unreasonable that Argentis made a business decision to prioritise 
transactions it knew to be urgent, bearing in mind the end of a tax year is a busy 
period, and it appeared the transfer of clients from firm G may have had an impact. 
Mr H hadnt expressed any particular urgency (at the outset at least), or mention 
wishing the transaction to be completed within the tax year;
But if satisfying one group of clients meant others like Mr H waiting longer, then 
expectations should have been managed from the outset. This would have prevented 
Mr H having to chase the adviser so many times. And had he known of the likely 
delay he couldve mentioned his intention that the release of TFC and fund switches  
be completed in the 2020/21 tax year. And if this wasnt possible with Argentis, to 
have enabled Mr H to seek advice elsewhere. 
Argentis said without unnecessary delay the process wouldve completed on 8 April, 
but as the policy value was lower then, Mr H hadnt lost out financially by the delay. 
Our investigators alternative timescale of seven weeks, (set out in the view so not 
repeated here), showed the TFC shouldve been released on 17 March, and the 
switches carried out on 18 March. But I didnt think a fair outcome should be based 
on the earliest point it couldve completed. So I looked at what I thought was 
reasonable in the actual circumstances, including that it was the end of the financial 
year. Mr Hs new financial adviser at firm O, who used to work at Argentis (or firm G) said 
they had tried to complete reviews within a 6-8 week timescale, though this would of 
course vary due to workloads. Suggesting this timescale was an average to be 
aimed for, rather than a service level agreement which clients could hold Argentis to, 
and compliance varied throughout the year. 
The delay was partly due to the adviser Mr C being on leave for the whole of the 
week after Easter and a couple of days the following week. I said staff are entitled to 
leave, and may avoid the period prior to the tax year end, but it wasnt fair for the lack 
of cover within Argentis to cause additional delays for Mr H. 
Argentis provided no evidence Mr H had been warned about the possibility of delays 
due to the end of the tax year rush. Mr H had chased the adviser first on 15 February 
when he hadnt received the report, and several times subsequently. While his email 
on 11 March said he was keen to receive the TFC and arrange the fund switches by 
the end of the financial year, it didnt appear he explained why or said it was 
imperative.
A call apparently took place on 18 March between the adviser and Mr H in which his 
ISA contribution for 2020/21 was discussed, and the possibility of selling a holding of 
shares to buy them back into his ISA. Mr H was warned doing so had capital gains 
tax implications, and he should seek specialist advice. Around this time the advisers 
internal request that Mr Hs recommendation report be escalated, was denied as 
there didnt appear to be a valid reason, but this wasnt fed back to Mr H. 
Investing the fund in an ISA appeared to conflict with Mr Hs objective of releasing 
cash for home improvements, but in any event, the evidence suggested hed used 
his ISA allowance for 2020/21, so didnt lose out in that regard from the delay. 
Mr H complained to the adviser on 4 April and was told his request had been 
escalated (due to Mr H needing to finance work on his house). This time the 
escalation was agreed, and the report was produced a week later. Once the report 
was finalised I thought Argentis acted fairly swiftly, and OMW had a ten-working-day 
timescale which was outside of their control. 
Argentis admitted it had focussed on other clients, the delay was mainly caused by 
pressure on the paraplanner to produce the report in time, Mr C had done what he 
could to progress things, but couldve done more to keep Mr H informed. 
I acknowledged the proximity of the Easter public holidays (2 and 5 April) effectively 
making Thursday 1 April the last business day of the 2020/21 tax year. But Mr H 
made contact with Argentis at the end of January, so I didnt think his expectation the 
transaction should be completed before the end of the tax year was unreasonable, 
even if he didnt specifically mention it being imperative. 
In summary I thought Argentis had delayed things for Mr H, it wasnt fair that hed 
been overlooked without managing his expectations, and the release of TFC and the 
fund switches on balance could have happened sooner than they did. 
But because I couldnt say for sure how long the process should have taken, given 
the complicating factors, I thought a timescale of eight weeks was a fair and 
reasonable outcome, based on what Mr H and his previous adviser suggested was 
usual for annual reviews and fund switches. Meaning Mr H would have received his 
TFC on 25 March 2021 and the fund switches completing on 1 April 2021, just within 
the 2020/21 tax year. 
I couldnt be sure if the fund switch taking place earlier wouldve benefitted Mr H. So 
to put things right, Argentis must carry out a loss calculation using those dates.
Argentis didnt respond to the provisional decision.
Mr H responded, accepting the outcome. He made the following points (in summary):The delay meant he missed out on the substantial post-COVID market rises in early 
2021, and Argentis should have been able to meet customer demand during this 
period.
The discussion about moving shares he held into a stocks and shares ISA was a 
side issue, and from memory not a service Argentis could help with. 
He believed the ISA rules permitted funds withdrawn during a year to be replaced 
so long as the annual subscription wasnt exceeded, allowing him to use the TFC to 
top up his cash ISA in 2020/21, with any excess held over to the following tax year. 
Neither party challenged the assumption that Mr H was a basic rate tax-payer in retirement, 
so the redress will be calculated on that basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions, which were that 
in the absence of Mr H being told the year end may cause a problem, eight weeks was a 
reasonable timescale within which his TFC and fund switches could have completed. So I 
think the TFC should have been released to Mr H on 25 March 2021, and the fund switches 
completed on 1 April 2021, within the 2020/21 tax year. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if Argentis had dealt with the tax-free lump sum withdrawal and 
investment switches when it should have. So on 25 March and 1 April 2021 respectively. 
What must Argentis do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Argentis must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's OMW pension with the notional value if the 
lump sum withdrawals and investment switches had taken place in line with the 
dates above. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
If there is a loss, Argentis should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Argentis is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him as cash. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The calculation should also reflect that Mr H crystallised £100,000 across both plans 
to release the tax-free lump sums (£12,500 from each plan).
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would have been able to take a tax-
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr H the sum equivalent to 8% simple interest on each of the £12,500 tax-free 
withdrawals from the date they shouldve been paid (25 March 2021) to the dates 
they were paid (17 and 18 May 2021). See note below. 
Pay Mr H £500 for Inconvenience caused by chasing the adviser and the distress 
arising from the disruption to his plans and worry at the potential loss to his pension. 
Argentis should provide details of the calculations to Mr H in a clear, simple format. 
Note: Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Argentis deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Argentis should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
OMW 
pension 
planStill exists 
and liquidNotional value 
of OMW plan (or 
alternative as 
set out below) 25 March 
2021 when 
funds 
shouldve 
been 
crystallised Date of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from Mr Hs OMW plans at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the pension plan would have been worth at the end date had the changes 
been implemented when they should.
Any additional sum(s) that Mr H paid into the pension plan should be added to the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal(s) from the pension plan should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point they were actually paid, so they cease to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of withdrawals to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Argentis totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth for his pension and was willing to accept some 
investment risk.
If its not possible to calculate a notional value for the OMW pension then I consider 
the below benchmark an appropriate alternative. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Argentis Financial Planning Limited should put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman