DRN-1933190
 
The complaint
Mr V complains about Swinton Group Limited and the way the total loss of his car was 
handled. In particular, hes unhappy the cost of his alloys wasnt considered as part of the 
total loss valuation.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr V was involved in non-fault a road traffic accident. Mr V called the number 
he was provided by Swinton and he spoke to an agent of Swintons, who Ill refer to as C.
After speaking to C, Mr V agreed for his claim to be passed to a third party, who Ill refer to 
as X, to handle the hire and repair aspects of his claim. Mr V chose this option instead of 
making a claim through his own insurer, A, where hed have needed to reclaim his excess 
through the third-party insurer of the car that was at fault for the accident.
The claim was concluded after Mr V accepted a lesser total loss payment to retain his car. 
He was unhappy with the way with the claim had been handled so he raised a complaint. He 
was unhappy the length of time the claim had taken to complete. He thought X and the 
company they appointed to manage the claim were to blame by instructing repairers that 
were unable to complete the job. He also thought the repairers who valued his car had 
inflated the repairs costs, leading it to be written off. 
But Mr Vs main issue was Xs failure to include the cost of his alloys in the total loss 
valuation. He explained hed declared these alterations to A to ensure the cost would be 
covered in this situation. And he didnt think was given the option to claim on his insurance 
policy with A until the claim was already near completion. So, he thought Swinton had a 
responsibility to ensure X included this cost in their valuation when the claim was handled.
Swinton didnt agree. They thought theyd given Mr V the opportunity to utilise his own 
insurance policy when he first contacted their agent and it was his decision to continue using 
a third party to manage his claim. They also looked into the other aspects of his claim and 
didnt agree that either their own, X or Xs appointed third parties service had been unfair. 
They explained X had decided themselves that the alloys hadnt increased the value of the 
car and this is why the alloys werent reflected in the total loss payment Mr V received. So, 
they didnt off think they needed to do anything more. Mr V was unhappy with this response, 
so he referred his complaint to us for a decision.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and initially upheld it. He didnt think Mr V was 
given an opportunity to utilise his own insurance policy before X were instructed and 
recommended Swinton pay Mr V £200 to reflect this. But he explained the valuation of the 
alloys was Xs responsibility and he couldnt hold Swinton responsible for their actions. Mr V 
responded saying he wanted the full cost of his alloys considered. Swinton responded 
providing call recordings they felt showed their agent C made Mr V clearly aware of his 
options and that hed chosen to use X. So, they didnt agree that they should pay Mr V £200.Our investigator considered this new information and it changed his view. After listening to 
the calls, he thought Mr V had been made aware he could claim through his own insurance 
policy which wouldve considered the cost of the alloys as part of the claim. He explained 
again that X handled the claim and the valuation of the car, and he didnt think it was fair to 
hold Swinton responsible for the actions of an unregulated independent third party. So, he 
didnt think Swinton needed to pay the £200 hed previously recommended and instead 
thought theyd acted fairly. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything further.
Mr V wasnt happy with this change in view. He thought Swinton had a responsibility to make 
X aware of the cost of his alloys and that his insurance policy included cover for these 
specifically. As Mr V didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the upset Mr V has clearly experienced due to the way his claim 
was handled. Ive no doubt Mr V made sure his insurance policy included cover that would 
include the cost of his alloys in the event his car was written off. So, when his total loss 
payment didnt include this, I can understand why he was frustrated and upset. I understand 
why Mr V feels hes been left out of pocket due to the expenses he incurred in adding the 
alloys to his car. But for me to say this impact and financial loss is the fault of Swinton, Id 
need to be sure the impact and loss has arisen from failures in the service they provided to 
Mr V directly. And in this situation, I cant say thats the case.
I think its important to first explain the service Swinton was responsible for. After Mr V had 
been involved in the road traffic accident, he called C, and agent of Swinton, who recorded 
the details of the accident and made him aware of his options going forward. As C were an 
agent of Swinton, Im able to consider the service and the advice provided. And after doing 
so, I think the information provided was fair and reasonable. 
I think C made Mr V reasonably that they would be passing the claim to a third-party 
company, X, to handle the hire and repair aspects of the claim. They explained they were 
doing this so Mr V didnt have to make a claim on his own insurance or pay the excess that 
would be included when doing so. Mr V agreed for C to do this on this call. So, I dont think 
Swinton have done anything wrong by proceeding on this basis. 
I also think, as they made Mr V aware this option preventing him needing to make a claim on 
his own insurance policy, it wouldve been reasonable to assume that any cover included on 
his insurance policy wouldnt necessarily apply. So, this included the cover for his alloys. 
Unfortunately, I dont think Mr V realised this at the time he agreed for Swinton to pass his 
claim to X and Ive no doubt that with hindsight, Mr V may have acted differently. But I dont 
think it would be fair for me to hold Swinton responsible for this as I think their agents gave 
all the information Id have expected them too when Mr V reported the claim.
X proceeded with the claim and managed it through another third-party company. And it was 
X who obtained a valuation of the car and took the decision that the alloys didnt increase 
the value. This valuation, and the payment Mr V received, wasnt the responsibility of 
Swinton. X themselves are an unregulated company so Im unable to consider their actions 
when managing the claim. This includes the delays to Mr Vs claim and the total loss 
payment he received.
But I am aware Mr V thinks Swinton had a responsibility to make X aware of the details of his insurance policy and his expectation for the alloy costs to be included in any payment he 
received. While I understand this expectation, as when Mr V called Swinton, he assumed he 
was reporting the accident to his insurer, I dont think Swinton had a responsibility to do so. 
As Mr V was told on the initial claim call, due to the accident being classed as non-fault, X 
were appointed to make a claim against the third parties insurance. So, any cover Mr V had 
on his own insurance policy wouldnt be taken into consideration. 
Xs responsibility was to obtain a valuation of the car and claim these costs back from the 
third party. Unfortunately, this valuation deemed the alloys to have no material impact on the 
amount it was worth. I understand Mr V strongly disagrees with this but this isnt a decision 
Swinton made. So, it would be unfair for me to decide that they should be held responsible 
for this or to direct them to cover any losses Mr V feels hes incurred.
So, while I understand Mr Vs frustrations and I recognise his belief hes been left financially 
out of pocket, I dont think this has resulted from the actions of Swinton. So, I dont think they 
need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint about Swinton Group 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman