DRN-2887677
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to carry out his instructions to cancel a standing 
order payment.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M deposited a cheque for the credit of his account using a night safe facility 
provided by Lloyds. Mr M says that along with the cheque he enclosed a letter requesting a 
standing order for £300 to be cancelled. He also says he made another night safe deposit in 
July 2020 in which he enclosed another letter requesting the cancellation of a direct debit for 
his gym membership (£43.84). But neither instruction was cancelled.
When Mr M realised that the payments had left his account, Mr M says he contacted Lloyds 
on several different occasions. But the standing order wasnt cancelled. So, he raised a 
formal complaint. 
Lloyds acknowledged Mr Ms complaint saying it had refunded Mr Ms account with £600 (2 
x £300 standing order payments) on 12 November 2020 and that it had paid him £75 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused and £14 to cover his costs. Unhappy 
with Lloyds response Mr M complained to this service.
In response to our enquiries and in respect of the standing order payment, Lloyds said that 
in addition to the above, it had also refunded Mr M with £300 on 4 September 2020 and paid 
£50 compensation, £300 on 4 November 2020. It also said that it had refunded Mr Ms gym 
membership on 11 November 2020 and paid an additional £50 compensation.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. But she didnt uphold it. She thought 
Lloyds had done enough to put the matter right. 
Mr M didnt agree. He acknowledged receiving the £600 refund, but said he had no record of 
receiving a letter from Lloyds upholding his complaint and disputed being paid compensation 
of £75 and £14 for his telephone call costs.
The investigator provided Mr M with a copy of Lloyds final response letter and noted that 
she had seen Mr Ms statements which showed the £75 and £14 had been credited on                   
12 November 2020.
Mr M still disagreed, he felt more compensation was due because Lloyds had made the 
same mistake more than once. Our investigator responded to say that, when considering 
compensation, we look at the circumstances as a whole to decide fair compensation. And 
she considered that the compensation already paid by Lloyds was fair.   
Mr M asked to appeal the outcome reached by the investigator, so his complaint has been 
passed to me. By way of a provisional decision dated 7 June 2021, I set out the reasons why 
I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint. The following is an extract from my provision findings 
set out in the provisional decision: 
I can see that Mr M is concerned that Lloyds has made similar mistakes on several different 
occasions and he would like to know why. He also wants a guarantee that a similar mistake 
wont happen again.
So, firstly, I think it would be helpful to explain the remit of this service. Here, Lloyds has 
accepted it made mistakes, so we dont look into how or why those mistakes happened. Our 
role is to decide if - in putting things right, Lloyds has done enough. And, if we dont think it 
has, we tell Lloyds what we think is required to make good any financial loss and what fair 
compensation would be for any distress and inconvenience caused. But our role isn't to 
punish businesses  we are not the regulator. So, our compensation awards are generally of 
a moderate nature. 
Additionally, neither Lloyds nor this service can guarantee that a similar mistake wont 
happen again - many mistakes happen as a result of human error. But I note that Lloyds told 
Mr M  in one of the call recordings Ive listened to, that it may be beneficial for him to 
telephone to cancel any further standing order or direct debit payments. This would avoid 
any instructions enclosed in a night safe  which is primarily used to deposit cash and 
cheques, being overlooked. And this seems to me to be a sensible suggestion. Although,    
Mr M might also wish to consider on-line and mobile phone banking as other alternatives.
It's not in dispute that Lloyds made errors  it didnt action Mr Ms request to cancel the 
standing order and direct debit instructions when it should have. It's apologised and 
refunded some payments. But having carefully reviewed everything provided by Mr M and 
Lloyds, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has refunded all the standing order payments that left 
Mr Ms account.
I say this because in both the complaint form sent to this service and in telephone call with 
Lloyds on 10 November 2020, Mr M says he first wrote to Lloyds to cancel the standing 
order on 9 June 2020. And I can see from his statements that his account was credited with 
a night safe deposit on that 9 June 2020. So, I think its likely - given his testimony and the 
night safe deposit, that Mr M did enclose his standing order cancellation instruction on that 
date. 
Lloyds has accepted that it didnt action this request. Having looked at Mr Ms statements, I 
can see that after 9 June 2020, £300 left Mr Ms account on 29 June, 29 July, 1 September, 
29 September and 29 October 2020. This totals £1,500. However, only £1,200 was received 
in refunds - £300 on 4 September and 4 November 2020 and £600 on 11 November 2020.
  
So, I think Lloyds, in accepting it didnt action Mr Ms instruction to cancel the standing order, 
is required to pay Mr M a further £300 to make good his financial loss as he has been unable 
to recover the funds himself.
With regard to Mr Ms gym membership  I can see that this payment was refunded on       
11 November 2020. I also note that during the telephone call of 10 November 2020 Mr M 
mentioned another direct debit for £198.20 which debited his account after he says he gave 
instructions to cancel it. While, Mr M hasnt mentioned this instance to us, for the sake of 
completeness, Ive noted this was refunded on 10 November 2020. So, I think Lloyds has 
correctly refunded these direct debit payments.
In addition, Lloyds has also paid Mr M three compensation payments totalling £175 - £50 in 
respect of his gym membership direct debit - paid on 11 September 2020, £50 with the £300 
standing order refund on 4 September 2020 and £75 when it refunded £600 on                                       
12 November 2020. And it paid £14 to cover his costs. I know Mr M think Lloyds should pay more as the same mistake has happened on several 
occasions. But overall, I think the payments already made are reasonable as it fairly 
recognises the distress and inconvenience caused in terms of the number of times Mr M had 
to call Lloyds to resolve these issues. 
I acknowledge Mr M has said the payments leaving his account in error caused financial 
hardship. But having looked at his account, I can see he held a substantial balance and I 
havent seen anything to suggest Mr M was unable to make any payments he needed to 
make from his account as a result of Lloyds error.
Lloyds responded to accept my provisional decision and agreed to pay Mr M a further £300. 
Mr M responded also confirmed his acceptance of the provisional decision and that he had 
nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings and havent provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
 For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision dated 7 June 2021 (set out 
above), I uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr M a further £300. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and 
Lloyds Bank PLC should now settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman