DRN-2968838
The complaint
X complains that following an overpayment to his mortgage account National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) will not give him the option to reduce the term of his mortgage without 
the need for him to complete an affordability test.
What happened
X has a mortgage account with NatWest that he opened in September 2015. The opening 
balance of the mortgage was £90,000 and the term was 14 years and 6 months. 
As X chose a fixed interest rate the monthly payments for the mortgage were fixed at 
£698.31 for 62 months and following this the interest would revert to standard variable rate 
and the payments would change.
So, as Xs mortgage started in September each new period for his mortgage started on 1 
September each year.
The offer that X was provided when he took the mortgage says:
What happens if you want to make overpayments?
You can make overpayments on this mortgage.
You can overpay by a maximum of 10% of your outstanding mortgage 
balance in each repayment period without incurring an Early Repayment 
Charge(s).  A repayment period is each 12 month period commencing on the 
initial completion of your mortgage product and continuing from each 
anniversary of that date until the end date applicable to that product, If your 
mortgage is made up of more than one part you can overpay up to a 
maximum of 10% of the outstanding balance of each part.
An Early Repayment Charge will be incurred on any overpayment that 
exceeds the annual 10% limit.  Please refer to Section 10 for information on 
Early Repayment Charge(s) that would be incurred if any overpayment 
exceeds the annual 10% limit.
You benefit immediately from overpaying directly to your mortgage. If you make an 
overpayment or lump sum payment then the amount you owe, and the amount of 
interest you pay, is reduced immediately.
In August 2016 X made a 10% overpayment to his mortgage account. Following this the 
monthly payments should have reduced to £626.82. At the time he asked for his monthly 
payments to remain the same and NatWest allowed this. So, his monthly payments for the 
new period were made up of: £626.82 obligatory payment and £71.49 overpayment. The 
overpayments were part of the 10% he could pay in this period. The term of the mortgage 
remained unchanged. 
X continued with this arrangement until December 2016, when he cancelled the monthly 
overpayment and made a lump sum overpayment taking him up to the limit of his 10% for 
that period. Following this his monthly payments changed to £644.29. The term of the 
mortgage remained unchanged. 
In July 2020 X agreed a new fixed rate product for this mortgage to start in October 2020 as 
the previous one had expired. The duration left on the mortgage at this time was 7 years and 
6 months. The new deal meant he would now have to pay 63 monthly payments of £611.21 
and following this would revert to standard variable rate and the payments would change.
In January 2021 X made a further 10% overpayment, this resulted in a change to the 
monthly payment to £531.13. X wanted the term of the mortgage to be reduced and the 
monthly payments to stay the same. NatWest said if X wanted to do this, he would need to 
complete an affordability test so the change could be assessed and pay a fee to amend the 
term.
X was unhappy with this and so complained to NatWest. It didnt uphold the complaint, it 
said it had followed its policy. and so, X brought his compliant to this service.
Our investigator considered Xs complaint but didnt uphold in summary they said:
it wasnt for this service to tell a business to change its policies and procedures and 
he could only look at if the NatWest had followed its procedures and applied its policy 
fairly when doing so, and he felt it had.
X disagreed, he said that he had never been advised previously that he would need to 
complete an affordability test in order to change the term of his mortgage. He argued that as 
a customer it should be up to him to choose if his overpayment reduced the term or the 
monthly payments, and he had been allowed to do this previously. He argued that he had 
completed an affordability test to take the new fixed rate in 2020 and his circumstances 
hadnt changed so NatWest should use that to make the assessment.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell X I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain. But before doing so Id like to point out that although 
Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
I have seen an internal document from NatWest that sets out its policy for making term 
amendments to mortgages. The document sets out that a full affordability test must be 
undertaken for the amendment to be assessed. So, Im satisfied this is its policy and it was 
entitled to ask X to complete one if he wants to change the term of his mortgage.
X argued that his circumstances havent changed since he gave his income details in July 
2020 and NatWest should use those details, but I dont agree. I say this because throughout 
the lifetime of a mortgage there are options to apply different interest rates by fixing them at 
agreed amounts, this doesnt alter the overall terms of the mortgage. So, although X would 
have had to provide some details to NatWest in July 2020 to enable him to do a product switch to his new 5 year fixed rate deal, it wasnt a full affordability test and so isnt what 
NatWest needed to carry out the assessment to change the terms of the mortgage in line 
with its policy. So, it follows Im satisfied that NatWest acted fairly when asking X to complete 
the affordability test.
X has also said that he was never informed that he would have to do this when he took the 
mortgage out. But I dont think NatWest had to tell him this at the outset, as its not realistic 
for a business to tell a customer all of its policies when entering into an agreement with 
them. It only needs to point out key facts  and I dont think this was a key fact.
Looking at the offer its clear from the excerpt noted above that any overpayment will result in 
the amount owing and the interest that will be aid overall will reduce. And this is true  but it 
doesnt mean the term will reduce. 
It goes on to say a maximum overpayment of 10% can be paid in any one year. So, if, as X 
did, a customer chooses to pay that 10% as a lump sum, its implicit that they wont also be 
able to make monthly overpayments too as this would result in the 10% being exceeded. 
And by asking to keep his monthly payments the same  this is what X is asking to do.
Based on all of the above, I dont agree that X should just be able to choose to change the 
term of the mortgage, without following NatWests policies. And so, I wont be asking it to do 
anything different here. If X wants to go ahead with the term change, he should complete the 
affordability test and allow NatWest to assess it.
I know X will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to 
resolve his dispute with NatWest can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman