DRN-2478727
The complaint
Mrs M complains that, when her fixed rate bond matured, The Co-operative Bank Plc, 
trading as Britannia, made mistakes and provided a poor service which didnt enable her to 
reinvest into a new bond at the pre-maturity offered rate.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by her son, who I will refer to as Mr M, and who holds 
power of attorney for Mrs M.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail by our 
investigator. So I wont repeat them again here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving my reasons for my decision.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld and that Britannia should do 
one of the following:
Pay the difference in interest between 1.87% and 0.06% that Mrs M wouldve received 
from the inception date, up to the date of the settlement; or
Pay the full difference in interest between 1.87% and 0.06% in April 2021, as this is what 
would have been received when the two year bond was set to mature.
Britannia didnt agree. It said it would pay Mrs M the difference in interest between 1.87% 
and 1.4% in advance of April 20201 and would pay a further £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused (in addition to the £75 it had already paid).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I largely agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these 
reasons:
Britannia did not make it clear that, as named power of attorney on the account, its system 
could not distinguish between that, and an account in joint names. It didnt provide any 
indication to Mr M that he would not be able to reinvest the bond proceeds online. And its 
letter instructed him that online reinvestment was the quickest way to arrange reinvestment. 
Mr M should have been told  well in advance of the bond maturity date  that, as a power of 
attorney on the account, he would need to give instructions by post and not online.
After Mr M had referred the complaint to us, and after our investigator had almost finished 
his investigation, Britannia agreed that Mr M was given incorrect information and it agreed it 
would uphold the complaint.
Britannia said that, when Mr M found out his instruction to reinvest in the two year 1.87% 
bond had been unsuccessful, he should have given instructions to reinvest in the bond which 
was available and that offered a rate of 1.4%. Instead, he chose to keep the money in the 
banks maturity saver account which only paid interest at a rate of 0.06%. But Mr M knew 
that Mrs M should have been able to invest in the bond offering 1.87% and that is why he 
complained and why he brought his complaint to us. And Britannia has now agreed with him. 
So I dont find any reason why Mrs M should not be compensated fully for the interest she 
has missed out on, because of Britannias error.
In response to our investigators view, Britannia said it would pay the difference in interest 
now, rather than waiting until April 2021, which I think is fair. 
Britannia paid Mr M £75 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused. As 
Mr M is acting on behalf of his mother, it is Mrs M who is the consumer and the complainant 
here and I can only award compensation to her. Taking into account her personal 
circumstances, I dont think Britannias mistake will have directly caused her any distress or 
inconvenience, so I make no further award.
Putting things right
To resolve Mrs Ms complaint, The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia should pay 
Mrs M the difference in interest between 1.87% and 0.06% that she would have received 
from the date she would have reinvested if she was able, to the date the two year bond 
would have matured.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia, should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman