DRN-4381618
The complaint
Mr M has complained that MBNA Limited (MBNA) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. A representative (the CMC) is assisting Mr M 
with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr M bought a battery storage system and a voltage optimiser (VO) for his home in 2018. 
The purchase was funded with an MBNA credit card, and that business is therefore liable for 
the misrepresentations made by the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, 
Mr M alleges that the supplier made a number of misrepresentations including:
Mr M was promised his bills would reduce by 65% but this hadnt materialized. 
The battery storage system would reduce his electricity bills by 50%.
That the VO would reduce his bills by 15%.
He says he was told he would recoup his costs in eight years and receive a profit of 
around £6,500.
Mr M says these representations have turned out to be untrue and that he has only made 
nominal savings. In 2019, Mr M raised a complaint about this. MBNA said Mr M had 
provided no evidence of the misrepresentations, so it did not uphold his complaint. So, Mr M 
(through the CMC) referred the matter to this service. 
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He also felt that Mr M hadnt 
provided any evidence of the misrepresentations so did not think his complaint should be 
upheld.  
The CMC didnt agree for the following reasons: 
The CMC felt the approach taken by our investigator is inconsistent with other areas 
of renewable energy such as solar panels where its accepted that there was large 
scale mis-selling. Often in those cases there is nothing to corroborate a customers 
testimony, but complaints are still upheld. 
Our established approach to redress in those cases is to ensure that solar panels are 
self-funding over a certain period of time. And the CMC didnt understand why this 
service accepted that Mr M would buy these products despite the fact that they 
wouldnt be self-funding. 
Mr M wasnt given any documents or statements in writing so he cannot submit what 
he doesnt have. 
The CMC says Mr M would have no reason to buy these products unless they saved 
him money, and Mr M would have to live for 200 years to recoup the initial cost let 
alone make any profit. 
The CMC says that if Mr M had understood how little he would save, he would not 
have bought the products 
The notion that the sales advisor informed Mr M that hed be paying huge sums for 
the products and would receive little to no benefit, but he still went ahead and 
purchased the products is not plausible. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
Firstly, Id like to explain that I understand Mr M hasnt been well, and Im very sorry to hear 
that. I wish him well. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr M paid for the battery and VO with a credit card, MBNA agrees that section 75 applies 
to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against MBNA, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of MBNA.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Neither MBNA nor Mr M have been able to provide much paperwork from the time of sale. 
Where there is such limited evidence, I have to make a decision based on the available 
evidence  that includes Mr Ms testimony and any documentation either party have been 
able to submit as well as the wider circumstances. 
Mr M (through his CMC) said, in his letter of claim, that he was led to believe that the battery 
and VO would pay for themselves in 8 years. This would be due to the savings made on his 
energy bills of 65%. 
However, beyond this, Mr M has provided no detail as to what exactly he was told about the 
items or why he relied on that information. So, Mr Ms testimony isnt very specific or detailed 
regarding what exactly he was told. For example, he doesnt specify whether the supplier 
broke down the specific amounts he would likely save having reviewed his bills, property and 
usage of electricity. Theres no specific information about how such savings would be 
achieved and he hasnt provided any facts and figures mentioned during the sale  which 
would explain why he believed and relied on any such representations. He also hasnt been 
able to provide any documentation from the suppliers (such as an estimated returns 
document) breaking down the benefits he could expect to achieve based on his specific 
circumstances.  
In order for me to uphold this case, I would need to be satisfied that the salesperson did 
more than make general comments about how well these products usually perform  or that 
they promoted them to him - thats the nature of selling items. Id need to be satisfied that the salesperson made specific misrepresentations about Mr Ms items, and that he relied on 
these misrepresentations and bought them on that basis. 
Ive looked at the quote provided by Mr M and this doesnt include any of the statements that 
Mr M says were made by the supplier, it doesnt even include any general comments 
alluding to the products being self-funding or being able to achieve the levels of savings 
Mr M says he was advised the products were capable of achieving. 
I have to bear in mind that Mr M has also purchased other energy saving products which he 
hasnt complained about  so he seems to have at least some interest in renewable energy. 
Ive then gone on to think about the wider circumstances of this case such as whether there 
is any general promotional material which suggests the supplier was promoting their 
products in a way that may support Mr Ms testimony.  And I havent seen that in this case. 
Additionally, there doesnt seem to be any regulatory or other action taken against this 
supplier around the time Mr M bought his products that would indicate poor selling practices 
more generally. So, I have to bear in mind that there is no other evidence from the time of 
sale that the supplier was selling the products as being self-funding when Mr M bought his 
products.
Ive considered the CMCs comments regarding this services approach to misrepresentation 
claims in other areas of energy saving products. But I would clarify to the CMC that each 
case is decided on the individual merits of that case and there have been many cases where 
we have found that there is insufficient evidence of the misrepresentations claimed by the 
consumer. 
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Ms testimony, bearing in mind this is the main evidence 
Mr M has submitted. But having done so, Im not satisfied that there is sufficient evidence 
here that the battery and VO were mis-represented to Mr M or that he relied on any such 
statements and bought them mainly for that reason. As explained above, each case is 
decided on the individual merits of that case, and on balance, I think that there isnt sufficient 
evidence that there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mr M to enter into the contract for the battery and VO, and I have found no other reason to 
uphold this complaint. So, I dont think MBNAs decision to not accept the claim was unfair. My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman