DRN-3093445
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund the money it lost when it was
the victim of a scam.
T is represented in its complaint by its directors, Mr L and Mr V.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 August 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it, in so far as 
I agreed that Revoluts offer to refund 50% of the loss plus 8% simple interest on the full 
amount of the loss from the date of the payment to the date of settlement was a fair 
resolution were set out in that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics 
below:
T was looking to source medical protection products to fulfil a client order. It contacted a
potential supplier it had found on a professional networking website. Mr L says he checked
the suppliers details on Companies House and everything matched up. He also explains he
has associates who have done business previously with the suppliers sister company.
The supplier held themselves out as being based in North London and provided further
details including a product catalogue and photographs of the items.
Mr V told the supplier he wanted to inspect the goods before placing an order. The supplier
said that he was unable to allow visitors into the warehouse because of Covid-19 restrictions
but instead provided a video recording of the warehouse containing the stock T was
interested in.
Mr L explains that they had researched the company online and found some reviews to
suggest the products were perhaps not top quality but did not see anything to suggest the
operation was a scam.
Mr L and Mr V decided to go ahead and placed an order. They received an invoice for the
sale from the supplier. On 24 November 2020, T paid £12,384 to the account details
provided in the invoice. The payee account details did not match the name of the purported
supplier, but Mr L and Mr V were not aware of this at the time the payment was made.
Unfortunately, Mr V discovered that someone had cloned a genuine businessmans name
and company details to do a fraudulent deal. Mr L contacted Revolut to try and get the
payment reversed. Revolut contacted the beneficiary bank to investigate further but no funds
remained to be returned to T.
Mr L then made a complaint. He could not believe how little support Revolut had offered and
felt the bank should have checked the name on the receiving account matched the account
details.
Revolut issued its final response in December 2020. It said it was unable to uphold Ts
complaint and there was nothing more it could do. It explained the payment had already
been made when Mr L first contacted the bank and that it had tried to recover the funds from
the beneficiary bank quickly.
Our Investigator looked into the matter and thought that Revolut should have done more.
She said the payment was unusual when compared to Ts general account activity. She
thought Revolut should have made further enquiries about the purpose of the payment
before allowing it to be made. She thought Revolut would have been aware of the
prevalence of scams involving medical supplies at that time and should have asked if the
money was going to the correct place. She noted Mr L and Mr V had been given a
substantial amount of information which indicated they were interacting with a genuine
business. She was persuaded Revolut needed to intervene and warn them about the scam
risk and that this would have prompted them to check the payee name they had been given
more carefully. She thought Mr L and Mr V would have reconsidered making the payment as
a result. She concluded that Revolut should refund the payment made in full, along with 8%
simple interest from the date the payment was made to the date of settlement.
Revolut responded to say it agreed that an opportunity was missed to discuss the payment
Mr L and Mr V was making in more detail. But it was not persuaded that the outcome would
have been any different even if it had asked additional questions.
It highlighted the sophistication of the scam and the lengths the fraudster went to in order to
deceive them. It said the only potential sign of deception was the discrepancy with the
beneficiarys account name. It thought the fraudster could have provided a plausible
explanation for this if challenged. It felt there was no guarantee that Mr L and Mr V would
have not continued to make the payment. It offered to refund half of the loss T incurred, plus
8% simple interest on the whole amount lost from the date of the payment to the date of
settlement.
Mr L and Mr V considered the banks offer but did not feel able to accept. They proposed
getting back all of the loss and asked the bank to consider that instead, indicating that they
would be willing to forego the interest for being deprived of the funds.
Revolut maintained its stance. It pointed out there was a considerable amount of information
to suggest T was dealing with a legitimate business. It suggested the discrepancy with the
payee did not necessarily point to any wrongdoing either. It highlighted that Mr L and Mr V
did not notice it at the time and suggested that companies can have different structures and
more than one account for payment for genuine reasons. It felt that if it had questioned the
payment at the time, it is more likely than not that Mr L and Mr V would have been able to
provide sufficient evidence to satisfy Revolut that the payment T was intending to make was
genuine.
Mr L and Mr V were disappointed that Revolut did not wish to refund the full loss. They
pointed out that Revolut had recently increased security measures for online payments and
suggested that had these measures been in place when they made this transaction, they
would have avoided making payment to a fraudulent beneficiary in the first place.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Revolut haverecognised Ts payment as being suspicious and intervened, and if it had done so, would it
have made a difference to what happened.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Having considered whether Revolut could, or should, have done more to stop T making the
payment it did, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Revolut to take responsibility to
refund all of the money T has lost. I can understand this will be a very disappointing outcome
for Mr L and Mr V so I will explain why.
I accept T has been the victim of a sophisticated scam. Its clear that losing a large amount
of money to the scam has caused problems with Ts clients and placed Mr L and Mr V under
a lot of stress. I dont underestimate the difficult time they have had. But that alone doesnt
mean T must be reimbursed in full by the bank. That all depends on whether the bank did
anything wrong  that is, could it have done any more to prevent the scam from taking place
or intervened so that Mr L and Mr V would have realised what was happening and stopped
before sending the money.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Although the
money was not intended to go to a fraudster, T is presumed liable for the loss in the first
instance.
But taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Revolut
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Revolut should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character situations, such as a
customer making a larger payment then they would typically make to a new payee.
These can be indicators that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Revolut has already accepted that it should have done more to satisfy itself that T was not at
risk of making a payment that would cause it financial harm. Whilst Revolut has accepted
that it ought to have intervened, this in and of itself isnt enough for me to say that the bank
should refund all of the money T went on to lose. I also need to be persuaded that its
intervention would have made a significant difference and ultimately prevented the payment
from being made. When making that decision, I have to base my findings on the balance ofprobability  that is, what I think is more likely to have happened, taking into account what
I know from the information that is available to me.
Ive gone on to think about whether Revoluts intervention would have prevented Ts loss.
On balance, Im not persuaded interaction with the bank would have been enough to stop
Mr L and Mr V from sending the money.
Would Revoluts intervention have made a difference?
If the transaction had flagged up as being unusual, Id have expected Revolut to have
contacted T and asked questions about the nature and purpose of the payment it was
making.
I think T would have told Revolut it was purchasing personal protection equipment. I am
persuaded that T would have been open with the bank about the sale as at this time it
believed it was purchasing from a genuine company.
When our Investigator considered the matter, she felt Revolut ought to have known how
purchase scams operate, particularly scams involving protective medical supplies which
were more prevalent due to Covid-19 pandemic. I accept at the time this scam happened
protective equipment was in high demand and there were media reports of fraudsters
accepting payment but not then going on to supply goods.
Revolut says it would have asked T about the purchase order and the correspondence that
had been exchanged with the supplier. I think the answers T would have likely given Revolut
to any questions it had asked would have been persuasive and plausible in all the
circumstances.
Im mindful that this was a sophisticated scam. The fraudster had cloned a real businessman
and his legitimate registered company. The fraudster had provided professional looking
correspondence which tallied with the evidence observed on both the social networking
website and on Companies House. The fraudster had provided T with a product catalogue
and there was nothing to indicate that the price T had been quoted was alarming or too good
to be true. The fraudster had also provided video footage showing the goods in a
warehouse. I have watched this recording and the fraudster refers to Mr V by name so it is
apparent that it was recorded specifically at his request and was not standard footage.
In addition to this, Mr L and Mr V needed the items to fulfil a client order due the next day.
Looking at the situation as a whole, Im not persuaded that intervention from Revolut would
have prevented the payment from being made.
The sophistication of the scam that tricked T was such that I dont think Revolut would have
had reasonable cause to suspect the transaction was linked to scam. Its likely the
information T would have provided if asked to do so would have been enough to satisfy
Revolut that T was not at risk of financial harm. So I dont think Revoluts failure to intervene
has resulted in the loss T has suffered.
Mr L and Mr V have raised concerns that the payee name did not match the account they
were expecting to pay. They have pointed out Revolut has recently introduced a process to
check the intended payees name against the name of the recipient account and highlight if
they do not match. I understand that with the benefit of hindsight this discrepancy might feel
like an obvious indicator that something was amiss. But the payment at the heart of this case
happened before this process was put in place. So I cant hold Revolut responsible for this
reason when that system did not operate at the relevant time.Ive also thought what Revolut did when Mr L reported T had been the victim of a scam.
From what I have seen, Revolut contacted the receiving bank quickly when it learned of what
had happened but sadly no funds remained to be recovered.
I appreciate how strongly Mr L and Mr V feel about what happened and how it is not fair that
T has lost out as a result. But the blame here lies with the actions of the fraudster who set up
an operation deliberately designed to trick people into sending money under false pretences.
Looking at everything, I think Revoluts offer to refund half of the money T lost plus 8%
simple interest on the whole amount from the date the payment was made to the date of
settlement would be an appropriate resolution to this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider. 
Mr L responded on Ts behalf. In the call recording I have listened to, he explained he felt at 
a loss about the decision and didnt understand how the proposed outcome could have 
changed so much when no additional information had been provided by either party. 
He said T would have never fallen victim to the scam in the first place if Revolut had put 
Confirmation of Payee in place at the time the payment was made. He said Revolut should 
be paying the full amount of the loss as they had failed by not implementing this earlier. 
He pointed out that T had made a number of checks to cover their side before going ahead 
and this was a sophisticated scam. He said the only potential oversight on Ts part was not 
noticing the small adjustment in the email address. He didnt think it was fair for this 
oversight to represent such a large loss to his business. 
He highlighted that the CPS are still looking into the case and provided paperwork from the 
Police to show an investigation into a suspect was ongoing, although T had been told the 
suspect has no assets so the investigation is ultimately unlikely to result in any funds being 
recovered. Mr L explained the Ombudsman Service was Ts only hope of reclaiming the loss 
T has incurred from the scam. On this basis, he asked for me to consider the matter again. 
Revolut did not respond, so I have assumed that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am very sorry to disappoint T, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I indicated in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
I wish to clarify that I have not reached my position on the basis that T overlooked a small 
adjustment in the email address. I am in agreement with T that this was a very sophisticated 
scam and I dont think T missed any obvious indications that the transaction was not what it 
seemed to be. But this does not mean that Revolut must reimburse the full loss T suffered. 
Revolut has not given any commitment to reimburse customers who are not to blame for the 
success of a scam. So when considering this matter, I can only assess whether Revolut 
acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the payment to leave Ts account and whether it 
could have done any more than it did to try and recover the money T lost. Revolut has accepted that it should have intervened to make enquiries about the payment 
before processing it and that it did not do so. This is why it made an offer of compensation to 
T. In my provisional decision, I explained that I had to think about what most likely would 
have happened had Revolut intervened when it should have done. If that intervention would 
have made a difference and would have uncovered the scam, it might be fair and reasonable 
to say Revolut is responsible for the resulting loss. But I explained I was not persuaded that 
an intervention from Revolut would have stopped T from making the payment and incurring 
the loss. I said this bearing in mind the sophistication of the scam. I still feel it is more likely 
than not that T would have given plausible and compelling answers to all of Revoluts 
questions about the situation had it been asked. I dont think Revolut would have been able 
to identify that T was at risk of financial harm by going ahead to make this payment. 
Mr L has suggested that Revolut has failed by not implementing Confirmation of Payee 
earlier. But at the time the payment was made, a payment would be deemed correctly 
processed upon being sent to the account number and sort code instructed by the payer. 
There was no regulatory requirement for Revolut to carry out any additional checks beyond 
this. So I cant say that Revolut acted incorrectly when it fulfilled the payment request T 
asked it to, based on what it was required to do at the time. 
The implementation of the Confirmation of Payee system to verify payee names required the 
participation and co-operation of multiple banks to allow that information to be shared. 
Importantly, this wasnt a change one bank could decide to implement itself  it could not 
have had ready access to the payee name details held at other financial institutions. So it 
would not be reasonable for me to find Revolut at fault for not doing more than it did to 
prompt checking of the payee name when to do so required a system not yet implemented, 
and one it could not implement in isolation.  
I understand Mr Ls strength of feeling about this matter. Hes explained that this is money 
that T can ill afford to lose. Its clear that T has been the victim of a crime and although 
investigations that may lead to a prosecution are ongoing, from what Mr L has provided to 
us, it seems unlikely that they will lead to T recovering the loss. But I have to decide whether 
Revolut are responsible for an act or omission that either allowed the scam to happen or 
resulted in a failure to recover money that would have otherwise been returned. For the 
reasons I have explained, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think T would have been 
in a different position if Revolut had done more than it did. As such, I cant fairly ask Revolut 
to do anything further than it has already offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I have decided to uphold this 
complaint against Revolut Ltd in so far as I consider its proposed offer to be fair 
compensation.
To put things right, Revolut Ltd should now: 
 Pay T 50% of the loss it incurred (£6,192) plus 
 8% simple interest on the full loss from the date of the loss to the date of the refund, less 
any tax lawfully deductible. 
Revolut should provide T with a tax-deduction certificate upon request. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman