DRN-3996569
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have reduced his credit 
limit on his account and lied to him about his creditworthiness.
What happened
Mr D says that he tried to book a holiday with his Barclaycard, but the transaction was 
declined. He says he contacted Barclaycard about this, and he was told the decline was due 
to his credit limit being exceeded. Mr D said that up until 2021, he had a Barclaycard Reward 
card which had a £14,000 credit limit and he was encouraged to change to a different type of 
Barclaycard credit card to collect points. He says he was not told his credit limit would be 
lowered as a result of this to £3,500. Mr D says when he contacted Barclaycard about this 
he says he was lied to, and he was told several different reasons of why the credit limit 
changed. Mr D made a complaint to Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard partially upheld Mr Ds complaint. They said a credit limit can be decreased for a 
number of reasons including existing debt held with them across different products. They 
said Mr Ds credit limit is reviewed using a combination of several factors and therefore they 
may not be able to give him the exact reason as to why his credit limit cannot be increased. 
Barclaycard said they credited Mr D with £20 as a gesture of goodwill for any pending 
membership fee that month and they also credited his account with £25 due to him being 
upset by the call handlers explanation as to why his credit limit was lowered. Mr D brought 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said Barclaycard didnt reduce Mr Ds 
credit limit as the evidence provided shows they transferred the same limit he had on his 
previous card to the new account. She said although Mr D has said he has never been a 
joint account holder on any account, based on the information provided by Barclaycard, Mr D 
is an authorised user on another Barclaycard account.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said Barclaycard lied to him about how creditworthy he is, they downgraded his 
credit limit without informing him, and he doesnt have any joint accounts with Barclaycard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Both parties do not agree that Mr D had a £14,000 credit limit with Barclaycard. When it 
comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the evidence 
available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that 
is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Barclaycard have provided evidence that Mr Ds Reward Barclaycard was opened on 11 
May 2021. The system screenshot which they provided us with this information also shows a 
credit limit of £3,500 on this account. I have looked at the first statement that was issued for 
his account which is dated 20 May 2021. This shows a £3,500 credit limit. So Im satisfied 
that Mr Ds account was approved with a £3,500 credit limit and not a £14,000 credit limit.
Ive looked at Mr Ds credit card statements from account opening to June 2023. And I have 
checked each statement he has been issued during this timeframe. From his 20 May 2021 
statement to his 19 July 2022 statement it shows at the top of page one of each statement 
Your Barclaycard Rewards statement. On page one it also shows Your current credit limit 
as £3,500. So Im satisfied that Mr Ds credit limit was initially £3,500 on his Rewards 
account and stayed the same throughout. Mr Ds last Rewards statement on 19 July 2022 
shows Your new balance of £885.65 with his direct debit to be paid on 15 August 2022. His 
next statement dated 17 August 2022, shows the name of his new account and number at 
the top of the page and it shows Your previous balance of £885.65. Page two shows the 
direct debit did collect the payment on 15 August 2022, so Im satisfied the statements flow 
and continue even if the number shown at the top of his statement changes when he 
changed the account type. 
To ensure Mr Ds credit limit hadnt changed on his new type of account, I checked every 
statement from August 2022 to his June 2023 statement, and every single statement 
showed a credit limit of £3,500. So the evidence shows that from account opening (May 
2021) to June 2023 at least, that the credit limit for Mr Ds account was always £3,500. So 
Im satisfied that Barclaycard did not reduce Mr Ds credit limit. And Mr D has been unable to 
provide any evidence that he had a £14,000 credit limit on this account. 
Mr D said on his complaint form to our service that his partner took out the card at the same 
time as what he did. He says his partner was granted a £14,000 credit limit, while Mr Ds 
credit limit was £3,500. Barclaycard have provided us with data which shows that Mr D is an 
additional cardholder (not a joint account holder) on an account with a £14,000 credit limit, 
where both cardholders live at the address Mr D told us he lives at. Im aware Mr D disputes 
that he is an additional cardholder on another account. As an additional cardholder, he 
would not be provided statements addressed to him, unlike the ones he gets as part of his 
Barclaycard which he has complained about here where he is the sole cardholder. Our 
investigator has sent Mr D screenshots of him showing as an additional cardholder and Mr D 
continues to dispute this. Mr D or the main cardholder for the other account may wish to 
complain separately to Barclaycard if they believe Mr D shouldnt have been added as an 
additional cardholder (sometimes referred to as an authorised user). 
Ive considered what Mr D has said about Barclaycard staff saying he was not creditworthy. I 
can see that Mr D did apply for a £14,000 credit limit on 9 November 2022, but this was not 
agreed by Barclaycard. Mr D also made a complaint on the same day. Ive looked at the call 
notes and Mr D mentions that his credit limit is dropping on his Barclaycard, but he doesnt 
know why, and the notes show that he says he had been told it was to do with his credit 
score. But as Mr D has sent us his credit score from one credit reference agency, he has 
what would be considered a perfect credit score. And as the evidence suggests, for the 
reasons Ive said above, his Barclaycard credit limit was not reduced. 
So it would appear the call handlers he spoke to took Mr D at his word and guessed (or 
provided possible reasons) why a credit limit would be reduced. Often, financial institutions 
will not make their credit limit criteria public knowledge  even to their own staff  and they 
are not required to publish this as this is a commercial decision for Barclaycard to make. Not 
publishing this can also help them avoid people potentially trying to get round their criteria. 
The call handlers here should have checked to see if Mr Ds credit limit was actually decreasing, and they would have been able to reassure him that his credit limit hadnt 
changed since his account was first opened (based on his statements showing the same 
£3,500 credit limit) and explained they would not be aware of the reasons for them being 
unable to grant him an increase of four times as much as his current (and original) credit limit 
from £3,500 to £14,000.
Barclaycard credited Mr D with £25 for the explanation of why a credit limit could be lowered. 
While his credit limit wasnt lowered based on what the evidence shows, I think this 
compensation is fair if Mr D felt Barclaycard staff were inferring that he wasnt creditworthy 
enough and that is why a credit limit could be decreased (or his credit limit couldnt be 
increased to £14,000). To evidence to Mr D that his credit limit on his account was always 
£3,500, if Mr D wants a copy of his statements showing this, he will be able to request a 
copy of them from our investigator if he has not kept a copy of them, to show the credit limit 
on each statement shows £3,500. But it follows I dont require Barclaycard to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman