DRN-2136439
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc, (trading as Abbey National), mis-sold them 
a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L bought the monthly-premium policy in 2007. The sale took place in a meeting, 
at the same time as they took out a mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Because Mr and 
Mrs L disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mr and Mrs Ls case.
I know that it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs L, but Ive decided not to uphold 
their complaint. I explain why below. 
Mr and Mrs L say that Santander played on their financial situation because it was 
their first mortgage. And that it led them to believe that they needed to take the 
MPPI if they were to get the mortgage. But they havent told us anything specific 
that Santander said which led them to think that that was the case. And, having 
looked at the information I have, on balance, I think that they knew the policy was 
optional and that they chose to take it. (Because it all took place several years ago, 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs L no longer remember the detail of what 
happened.) 
Ive come to the above conclusion because Ive seen the record of the face-to-face 
discussions Santander had with Mr and Mrs L, and its analysis of their insurance 
needs. These show that Mr and Mrs L each told Santander that they would be 
unable to meet the mortgage repayments if they were not working because of 
accident or sickness. And that they accepted Santanders representatives 
recommendation to take out MPPI. 
Further, Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage offer. This said that the only insurance that 
Mr and Mrs L needed to take out as a condition of the loan, was building insurance  and 
that didnt have to be through Santander. I appreciate that the offer Ive seen related to a 
property other than the one Mr and Mrs L actually mortgaged. But the sale price for this 
latter property was lower. And the purchase took place within a reasonable time after the 
meeting, so its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances had changed to any degree. So I 
find its reasonable to assume that the mortgage conditions relating to insurance for their 
actual purchase, were the same.
Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs L. This means that it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I dont know what steps 
Santander actually took, but, in any event, I find that the MPPI was suitable because:
oMr and Mrs L were eligible for the policy;
oMr and Mrs L werent caught by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations  
such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
oThe initial premiums were about £30 a month. And, following a successful claim, the 
monthly benefit payable, had Mr and Mrs L both been off work, was initially about 
£900. If only one of them was unable to work, the monthly benefit would have been 
halved. Im satisfied that the insurance was competitively priced by reference to other 
policies available in the market at the time. And that the policy offered reasonable 
benefits;
oMr L mentioned that there were times when his and Mrs Ls monthly disposable 
income was minimal. But that doesnt lead me to the conclusion that, at the time of 
the sale, the MPPI was unaffordable. In any event, had Mr and Mrs L later felt that 
they couldnt afford the premiums, or that they no longer wanted the policy, they 
could have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
oMr and Mrs L have told us that they were entitled to sick pay and redundancy 
packages from their employers. They also had some savings. However, following a 
successful claim, the policy would have paid out in addition to the foregoing, leaving 
them available to help meet their other expenses while they werent working. The 
payments would have been for up to 12 months - which is a longer period than either 
of their sick pay entitlements from their respective employers. So I find that the MPPI 
could have been of use to Mr and Mrs L;The quotation for the policy sets out the premiums and monthly benefit payable following 
a successful claim. It also said that the cover was for accident and sickness and that 
payments would be made for up to 12 months. Its possible that Santander didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs L everything else that it ought to have about the insurance so that they could 
make a fully-informed decision whether to take it or not. But, as Ive concluded that it was 
suitable for them, I dont think that clearer information would have changed their minds 
and stopped them buying it. I think that they would have felt that it was good value. I say 
this particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences that could have arisen had 
Mr and Mrs L not been able to make their monthly mortgage repayments, which were 
secured on their home. So I dont think that Mr and Mrs L have lost out because of 
anything that may have been wrong in Santanders sales process.
As Ive said earlier, Ive carefully considered everything that Mr and Mrs L have told us, 
including that a family member could have helped them out had they not been working. As 
we explain on our website, we dont usually take this into account because circumstances 
change  and such assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Mr and Mrs Ls 
case to make me think its reasonable to deviate from this approach here. 
Mr and Mrs L have pointed out the savings they had which they could have used to make 
their monthly payments. But they have told us that they were saving to buy a different 
property. So I find that its reasonable to assume that they wouldnt have wanted to use 
these savings to meet their mortgage repayments, but instead would have wished to keep 
them safe for this future purpose. I find that this conclusion is reinforced by the fact that the 
savings represented a material proportion of the price of their house. But that they chose not 
to use them on this purchase, even though this would have substantially reduced their 
mortgage repayments.
Mr L says he had a life cover. But this type of insurance pays out in quite different 
circumstances from MPPI, so I dont think that fact has a bearing on this matter.
So these and Mr and Mrs Ls other comments dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2020. 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman