DRN-2359735
Complaint
Mrs C has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Mrs C bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a store card. She has said 
that at the time she applied for the card, she didnt receive any advice or recommendation. 
She said she applied for the card instore and was not given any information about the policy 
or its exclusions.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill now explain why.
The PPI was taken out at the same time as she applied for the card instore. Unfortunately, 
AXA has been unable to provide a copy of the actual credit agreement that Mrs C would 
have signed at the time. However, this is not surprising given the length of time that has 
passed since the sale took place. So, I have considered Mrs Cs complaint based on what I 
know generally about these types of sales and the sales paperwork that would be used at 
the time. 
From what we know about AXAs card application forms from around the time of the sale, it 
is most likely Mrs C would have been given an option to select PPI. 
Had the PPI been added without Mrs Cs knowledge, I would have thought she would have 
questioned the additional charges sooner than she did. Overall, I dont think Ive seen 
enough in this case to make me think the policy was added without Mrs Cs agreement. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not that Mrs C agreed to take it out, knowing that she 
didnt have to. 
I dont think AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs C. So, it didnt have to check if the policy was 
right for her. 
AXA hasnt been able to provide me with a copy of the policy wording from 1994. Because of 
this, I havent seen the policy wording from the time of sale. But based on the closest copy 
Ive seen and using what I know about these types of policies generally, I think its more 
likely than not Mrs C would have been eligible for cover and wouldnt have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions and 
unusual employment circumstances. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy 
wasnt affordable for Mrs C. 
Mrs C has told us she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Having thought about 
what Mrs C has said, I dont think this means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say 
this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs C would have 
received from her employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than she would 
have received full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs C was ever made 
redundant. 
So overall, I think Mrs C could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman