DRN-1609808
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2001 in connection with a mortgage. Ms C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Ms C said she thinks she was advised during a meeting to buy PPI. She wasnt told it was 
optional and no terms, conditions, cost or benefits were explained to her. She says she 
didnt need it and didnt ask for it.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Ms C disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although there is limited information here  which doesnt surprise me as the sale is 
nearly 20 years old  and based on what I know about how Bank of Scotland sold 
policies like this at the time I think its likely the optional nature would have been 
made clear. And nothing Ms C has told me makes me think Bank of Scotland didnt 
follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its more likely Bank of Scotland 
made it clear to Ms C she had a choice about the PPI, and she agreed to buy it 
although I can understand why she may not remember this now.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms C, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Ms C has said - including what she said about her employee 
benefits. But this doesnt change my decision because I think the PPI could have paid out for 
longer than and in addition to her sick pay.This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Ms C paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Ms C back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. I understand Bank of 
Scotland has already paid this to Ms C. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman