DRN-4140152
The complaint
Mr M complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) avoided his motor 
insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
Mr M is represented in this case by a solicitor but for ease of reading, in this decision I will 
refer mainly to Mr M.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings on this case on 9 May 2023. I planned to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and invited both parties to respond with anything they thought was relevant for me 
to consider. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor Insurance policy with Skyfire in December 2021. In January 
2021 he bought a second car and on the same day he purchased it he called Skyfire 
to insure it. The purchase price of the car was £86,891.
A month later in February 2022 Mr Ms car was stolen, he tried to make a claim for 
this, but Skyfire declined the claim and avoided Mr Ms policy.
Skyfire said hed answered the question it asked about the value of his car 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation. Skyfire dont 
provide insurance for cars with a value of more than £80,000 and so say a policy 
would never have been offered to Mr M had he declared the true value of his car. 
And so, this entitled it to avoid his policy and decline his claim. Skyfire refunded his 
full premium to him.
The question Mr M was asked and answered during the call was:
Q: What would you say the current value in the car would be?
A: Uumm £80,000
Mr M brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. They believed it 
was careless, but they thought Skyfire was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy and decline 
his claim.
Mr M doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary the arguments put forward by his solicitor were:
Skyfire did not make it sufficiently clear that £80,000 was the absolute sum it 
could insure, and in that case, it would have been appropriate for it to ask him to 
check the value is not a penny more. If they had asked, he would have checked 
his answer was accurate.
As the car was purchased through hire purchase with a balloon payment at the 
end of the agreement, he wasnt focussed on the retail price only on the monthly 
repayments.
Skyfire agreed to provide insurance up to £80,000. And it would be unfair to 
deny him cover for that amount.
If its accepted, which Mr M doesnt, that £86,000 was the correct value at the 
time then he was within 7.5% of that value when he said £80,000 and this is well 
within the margin in which different reasonable people might value a vehicle at.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key 
issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
that Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me.
The relevant law where there is a misrepresentation is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Under CIDRA, for Skyfire to be able to avoid paying Mr Ms claim it needs to show it 
was entitled to avoid the policy.
Skyfire thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he told it his car had a value of £80,000. But I dont agree that Mr M did do this. 
I say that because Ive looked at the question Mr M was asked by Skyfire, and I think 
he was asked for a statement of opinion here, rather than a statement of fact  What 
would you say the current value in the car would be? which means Mr M cant have 
made a misrepresentation as he was only giving his opinion on the value of the car, 
rather than stating it as a matter of fact.
But I still need to consider if the answer Mr M gave to the question, he was asked, 
was a reasonable one in the circumstances. And what the remedy should be either 
way. In cases where the answer isnt considered to be a reasonable one then our approach would be to put both parties back in the position they would have been in 
before the mistake occurred.
To decide if Mr Ms answer was reasonable in the circumstances Ive listened to the 
call where Mr M was asked the question about the value of his car. I have also 
considered what information Mr M had available to him to be able to answer the 
question, and what he has told us about why he gave the answer he did.
 
Ive also thought about Skyfires actions here too and whether it needed to do more 
when Mr M said his car was worth £80,000, when it knew this was the upper limit for 
cover.
Mr M does accept he had information available to him at the time showing the 
purchase price of the car. But he has explained there were a number of factors that 
informed his answer:
Its his understanding that a car depreciates as soon as its collected from a 
forecourt and so he thought £80,000 was about right to reflect this.
When he bought the car, he went through the calculations online with his focus 
being on what was an affordable monthly payment, rather than thinking about the 
total purchase price of the car.
There was also a balloon payment due at the end of the three year finance 
agreement of approximately £35,000 which he never intended to pay as he was 
planning to trade the car in at the end of the finance agreement.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr M gave what he thought to be a reasonable opinion 
based on his understanding of the question he was asked and the factors 
surrounding it. Im not concerned that he thought his car was worth £80,000 given his 
explanation of his thought process. It therefore follows that Im satisfied that Mr M 
gave a reasonable answer to the question he was asked. In addition, based on the 
question, I dont think Mr M made a statement that is capable of being described as a 
representation, as opposed to a statement of opinion.
Moving to Skyfires actions here, Mr M didnt call Skyfire to make a change on his 
existing policy he called to take out a new one, but the application declined when he 
told Skyfire his cars value, in his opinion, was £80,000. It was Skyfires telephony 
agent that suggested he switch this onto his existing policy as it was more likely to 
accept this way had they not done so, Mr M would have taken out a new policy with 
another insurer.
Skyfire was the expert in this transaction and knew there was an upper value limit to 
the risks that its willing to cover. So, I think it needed to make clear to Mr M the 
importance of being accurate when answering that question and it needed to do so 
before offering to get around the value issue by making the change to Mr Ms existing 
policy. It was in a position to do so as Mr M was open telling Skyfire he had 
purchased the car on the same day  so it could have probed him for the purchase 
price of the car on that day as this seems to be the answer it is suggesting Mr M 
should have provided.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Skyfire can rely on CIDRA here, as I 
dont think Mr M made a statement that is capable of being described as a 
representation, as opposed to a statement of opinion. And I dont think Skyfire did enough to make him aware of the importance of answering that question accurately 
or the possible consequences if he didnt. So, if I were to allow Skyfire to rely on 
CIDRA here it wouldnt produce a fair and reasonable outcome.
This means Skyfire will need to reinstate this policy, removing any record of the 
voidance from any internal or external databases, and consider Mr Ms claim in 
accordance with its terms. The terms say that the maximum amount payable in the 
event of a total loss claim is the market value of the insured vehicle at the time of the 
loss. There isnt a clause in the policy that limits the payment to the value shown in 
the schedule of insurance and so Skyfire shouldnt limit the claim here to £80,000 but 
should consider the claim at its full value at the time of the loss.
The policy says the settlement amount due on any finance agreement will be paid to 
the finance provider, with the balance being paid to Mr M. However, Skyfire is also 
entitled to deduct the excess from any claim it pays. As Skyfire refunded the policy 
premiums to Mr M it can deduct those from any claim settlement too.
Its not appropriate for me to award interest at this stage as I cant say what the 
outcome of the claim will be when Skyfire considers the claim in line with the policy 
terms. Although there is nothing from its file to suggest there is any reason it wont 
settle the claim, but I cannot be sure of this.
However, I do think that Mr M should receive something for the distress and 
inconvenience of having his policy incorrectly avoided. He has told us he hasnt been 
able to afford to replace his car, as much of his money was tied up in the insured 
vehicle. So, he has had to rely on public transport and using a push bike for getting 
around. This combined with the upset of having his policy avoided and his claim 
turned down would have caused significant upset, worry and inconvenience to him. 
He has also had to continue with the monthly finance payments on the car without 
actually having it to use, which would also have been very distressing for him.
As Ive said I cant be sure that Skyfire would have settled Mr Ms claim if it hadnt 
incorrectly avoided his policy, but what I can be sure of is that the avoidance meant 
Mr M couldnt take action to replace his car, whether this was by having his claim 
settled or by some other means. Therefore, while I dont think Skyfire should pay for 
loss of use of his car, I do think they need to pay a significant compensation payment 
for distress and inconvenience. And having considered the overall impact of the 
avoidance on Mr M Ive provisionally decided £650 is appropriate.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this
complain and will require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to:
Remove any record of the avoidance of Mr Ms policy from their records and 
any central databases it was placed on.
Reinstate Mr Ms policy and consider his claim for theft in accordance with the 
policy terms. The policy terms say that Skyfire will pay the market value of the 
car in the event of a total loss, minus any excess. And while I note that Skyfire 
doesnt normally insure cars with a value greater than £80,000 this should not 
have any impact on any settlement amount due to Mr M.
Pay Mr M £650 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Both parties responded to my provisional findings as follows:Mr M accepted the findings.
Skyfire said:
 We understand that when Mr M contacted us to insure his vehicle, we originally did 
this as a new quote, which declined because the value was more than £75k. This 
was communicated to Mr M during the call, and we then amended his existing policy 
as MTAs allow a vehicle value of up to £80k. The FOS decision states that we should 
have made it clear to Mr M that we dont insure/accept vehicles with a value over 
£80k, we believe this should be defended as a point of principle as we dont tell 
customers what our acceptance criteria is.
Whilst CIDRA sets out that we should ask clear questions. The customer also has a 
duty to answer them openly and honestly. From what was said on the call, we believe 
that Mr M would have had an understanding that the value of his car was either at the 
limit of what we accept, or beyond this. He said £80k, knowing that he had paid £86k 
earlier that day, and that if he had said anything over £80k, we would have declined 
cover.
We feel the FOS are setting this out as though we had asked a 
hypothetical/theoretical question, we asked what the value of the vehicle was, and 
this was set out in the customers lease agreement by the manufacturers finance 
arm.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given thought to Skyfires response and having done so; it hasnt changed my mind for 
reasons Ill explain below.
Skyfire are under the misconception that I had said it should have made it clear to Mr M that 
Skyfire doesnt insure/accept vehicles over the value of £80,000. But thats not what my 
provisional decision said or intended. It said Skyfire should have made it clear to Mr M the 
importance of answering the question correctly, as it was in a position to know that the value 
Mr M had given, as his opinion, was at its upper limit of acceptance. Skyfire were also aware 
of the possible consequences for Mr M if the car was valued at even £1 more.
I dont agree with Skyfires comment that when Mr M answered the question, he knew his 
car was either at the upper limit of acceptance or beyond it. Having listened to the call I cant 
say here is anything that supports this. Mr M answers the question he was asked and its 
only when the new cover quote declines, later in the call, and the agent suggests a mid-term 
adjustment on Mr Ms existing policy that a limit for new policies is discussed. 
Skyfire have argued that Mr M purchased the car on the same day, and so should have 
answered the question he was asked by giving the figure that he purchased the car for. This 
brings me back to Skyfire not asking a clear question at the outset. Mr M was asked:
What would you say the current value in the car would be?
Im satisfied the Mr M was asked for his opinion here and he gave what he thought - in his 
opinion  was a reasonable answer, which he has justified his thinking for. And as Ive already explained  his answer isnt capable of being described as a representation as its 
not a statement of fact  its a statement of opinion. If Skyfire wanted to know what Mr M 
purchased the car for on that day (which is what its argument seems to be here)  it should 
have specifically asked that.
Taking into account all of the above I remain satisfied that Skyfire didnt ask a clear question 
which required a statement of fact in answer, but asked Mr M his opinion about the value of 
his car. So, Mr M couldnt have made a misrepresentation when giving his answer. So, I 
dont think its fair to allow Skyfire to rely on CIDRA in this case as it would not result in a fair 
and reasonable outcome here. 
Putting things right
To put things right here for Mr M Skyfire should:
Remove any record of the avoidance of Mr Ms policy from their records and any central 
databases it was placed on.
Reinstate Mr Ms policy and consider his claim for theft in accordance with the policy 
terms. The policy terms say that Skyfire will pay the market value of the car in the event 
of a total loss, minus any excess. And while I note that Skyfire doesnt normally insure 
cars with a value greater than £80,000 this should not have any impact on any 
settlement amount due to Mr M.
Pay Mr M £650 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited and now require it to carry out the actions as set under 
the putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman