DRN-2635183
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about the service he has received from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. He 
says the payment date on his conditional sale agreement was changed causing him to go 
into arrears and that he hasnt received the information he has requested.
What happened
Mr K entered a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to acquire a car. He says that his 
payment date was changed without his consent which resulted in his account going into 
arrears. He says he contacted Moneybarn and raised a subject access request but the 
information he received didnt include copies of the calls. He says the issue with his payment 
date has affected his credit file and that Moneybarn has refused to come to an arrangement 
with him. 
Mr K wants his credit file amended and compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
has been caused by Moneybarn not responding within the required timeframes, calls being 
dropped and not then returned, and him not providing the information he requested.
Moneybarn says that Mr K complained in November 2019 about it not setting up a payment 
plan without completing an income and expenditure assessment. It says that Mr Ks account 
had fallen into arrears and that its agent explained why a review of Mr Ks finances was 
required. Moneybarn accepted that it issued its final response letter more than 56 days after 
Mr K raised his complaint and it apologised for this. It didnt think this had any impact on the 
outcome of the complaint as the information had already been provided to Mr K. 
Moneybarn says that a payment plan was agreed in December 2019. In its letter dated 30 
April 2020, Moneybarn explained that an income and expenditure assessment should have 
taken place before the arrangement was put in place in December and it credited Mr Ks 
account with £50 as a gesture of goodwill. It said information had been recorded accurately 
on Mr Ks credit file.
Moneybarn says it asked Mr K what information he thought was missing from his subject 
access request and didnt get a response to this. It says Mr K contacted it on 5 May 
complaining about his payment holiday request not being processed. Moneybarn says this 
was addressed and it paid Mr K £20 for the delay in responding to this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted the delay in the issuing of the final 
response letter dated 3 February 2020 but thought the apology provided by Moneybarn was 
enough to address this as she didnt think the delay caused Mr K any detriment. She thought 
Moneybarn had acted responsibly by asking Mr K to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment before a payment plan was set up and thought it reasonable that it credited his 
account with £50 due to the inconsistency in its approach by setting up a payment plan in 
December without a financial assessment.
Regarding the change in payment date our investigator said that the notes provided by 
Moneybarn showed that the dates had been changed in response to Mr Ks requests. She 
noted the comments Mr K had made about the information provided in response to his 
subject access request but also that Moneybarn, in its letter dated 30 April had asked what 
information was missing so this could be provided. She said as Mr K hadnt responded to 
Moneybarns question she didnt think Moneybarn had done anything wrong.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He said he hadnt consented to the date change 
and reiterated that he had requested copies of the calls in his subject access request which 
werent provided. He said that a late payment marker had been applied to his credit file even 
though he was on a payment holiday. He said the delays caused him emotional stress and 
anxiety.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has raised several concerns about how his account has been managed and the service 
he has received. I note he recently raised a complaint about a late payment marker being 
added recently and it has been explained that this issue will be dealt with separately. This 
decision relates to Mr Ks complaint about the process of setting up a payment plan, the 
change to his payment date, the delays in receiving responses to his requests and the 
information he received following his subject access request. I have dealt with each part of 
this complaint separately.
Payment plan
I have looked through Mr Ks statement of account and can see that he missed a payment in 
July 2018 and that following this several payments were missed resulting in arrears building 
on his account. An income and expenditure assessment was carried out in October 2018 
and a payment plan set up at that time. Following this I can see that further payment plan 
discussions took place and based on the evidence I have seen it appears that Moneybarn 
was trying to work with Mr K to resolve the issues on his account.
Mr K contacted Moneybarn in November 2019 to discuss his account. He explained he had 
previously lost his job but was working again and he wanted to make payments towards his 
arrears. While I appreciate Mr K didnt want to have a financial assessment carried out, I find 
that Moneybarn was acting responsibly by requesting this. In circumstances such as Mr Ks 
we would expect Moneybarn to carry out appropriate checks to ensure any proposed 
repayments were sustainably affordable. Therefore, I do not find that it did anything wrong 
by saying an income and expenditure assessment needed to be completed.
A payment plan was then set up in December 2019. An income and expenditure assessment 
wasnt carried out before this was put in place and Moneybarn has explained that this should 
have happened. It credited Mr Ks account with £50 due to the inconsistent approach it had 
taken, and I find this reasonable.
Overall, I find that Moneybarn did try to work with Mr K following his account going into 
arrears and I do not find he was treated unfairly at this.
I understand that Mr Ks credit file will have been affected by the missed payments and 
arrears. However, as he hadnt maintained the contractual payments it is right that this would 
be reflected on his credit file. 
Change to payment dateMr K says that his payment date was changed without his consent and this caused the 
arrears on his account. I have looked at the system notes provided and can see these record 
Mr K as requesting changes to his payment dates. In July 2018, Mr K asked about changing 
his payment date although a date change wasnt requested at that time. Mr K then cancelled 
his direct debit and payments were missed. On 18 October 2018, a payment plan was set up 
and Mr K asked for his payment date to be moved from 26 to 23 of each month. 
In January 2019, the notes provided show that Mr K asked for the payment date to change 
back to 26 of the month. I can see from the statement of account this happened.
While the calls regarding these changes havent been provided, I find I have enough to say 
that I find it more likely than not that that Mr K requested changes to his payment date, and 
these were actioned by Moneybarn. Therefore, I do not find that Moneybarn has done 
anything wrong regarding this issue.
Delays in responding to Mr K
Mr K raised a complaint about the call on 16 November 2019. A final response letter was 
issued dated 3 February 2020. There was a delay in this being issued and Moneybarn 
apologised for this. Mr K has said this caused him stress and anxiety, however I do not find 
that there is evidence that this delay caused Mr K any material distress or that the delay had 
any impact on the outcome of the complaint. Therefore, I think the apology was enough in 
this case.
Moneybarn has also explained that there was a delay in setting up Mr Ks payment holiday in 
April 2020. Mr K requested a payment holiday in mid-April, and he received a response 
dated 5 May. This confirmed that the payment holiday had been set up and payment hadnt 
been taken in April 2020. Moneybarn apologised for the delay in responding and said it paid 
Mr K £20. As the payment holiday was set up in a timely way I find the apology for the delay 
in the response was enough in this situation. 
Subject Access Request
Mr K made an application for a subject access request to be raised on the call in November 
2019. The notes record that Mr K was told that call recordings wouldnt be sent unless these 
were requested after the call notes had been received. I havent seen any evidence that 
Mr K requested any calls after he had received the response to his subject access request.
Mr K raised a complaint about the calls not being sent and I can see in the final response 
letter dated 30 April 2020 that Mr K is asked to provide details of the calls he wants so they 
can be sent. I have nothing to show that Mr K requested the calls and I find that Moneybarn 
has done enough by offering to send the information once Mr K confirms which calls he 
wants copies of.
Summary
I can see that Mr K has been upset by the experience he has had with Moneybarn. However, 
Moneybarn has tried to assist Mr K by setting up payment plans and amending his payment 
date on his request. I think it acted responsibly by requesting income and expenditure 
information and think it has been fair by providing a £50 credit in response to the 
inconsistent approach it took. I do not find the delays Mr K experienced in receiving a 
response have caused material distress for which compensation is warranted and find the 
apologies provided were reasonable. If there is further information Mr K wishes to receive in 
response to his subject access request he should contact Moneybarn about this this.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman