DRN-3933458
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In April 2014 Mr K applied for a credit card with Nationwide. Nationwide approved the 
application and gave Mr K a card with an initial credit limit of £1,100. The credit limit was 
later increased to £1,200 in August 2014, £1,500 in September 2015 and £1,700 in February 
2016.
Mr K struggled to make repayments on the card. He later complained to Nationwide and said 
it had failed to carry out adequate checks to ensure the lending was affordable for him, and 
that if they had done so, they would have realised that the lending wasnt affordable.
Nationwide issued its final response in March 2021. It said it thought the credit was 
affordable for Mr K following the two credit limit increases. It didnt comment on the initial 
lending other than to say that because the card had been taken out more than 6 years 
before Mr K complained to them, the complaint was out of time.
Unhappy with the response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service.
Initially, an ombudsman looked into whether Mr Ks complaint about the initial lending could 
be considered. He concluded that this service could consider the complaint because he 
didnt think Mr K ought reasonably to have been aware that he had cause to complaint about 
the sale of the card or the first credit limit increase at any stage more than 3 years before he 
complained.
Our investigator then looked into the merits of the complaint. She didnt think the initial 
application and credit limit increase in 2014 was unaffordable for Mr K. But she said that 
reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown that the credit limit increases in 2015 
and 2016 werent affordable.
Nationwide didnt respond ton the investigators view despite chasers from this service. The 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set out on our 
website. Ive had this approach in mind in considering Mr Ks complaint.
Account opening and credit limit increase 2014
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Nationwide had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr K could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of whats 
considered reasonable and proportionate will depend on various factors including the 
amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost of the credit 
and the customers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Nationwide hasnt provided details of the checks it carried out before approving the 
application or the first credit limit increase. Because of the lack of information, I havent been 
able to determine whether reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out.
Because of this, Ive looked at Mr Ks bank statements for the period immediately prior to the 
lending, to see what information would have been available had checks been carried out at 
the time. 
Having looked at the bank statements, theres nothing to suggest that the lending wasnt 
affordable, or that Mr K wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the credit. The bank 
statements show that Mr K had sufficient monthly disposable income to make the 
repayments. This is the case for both the initial lending and the first credit limit increase in 
2014. Therefore, had Nationwide looked at this information, I think it would have reached the 
same conclusion and found the lending to be affordable for Mr K.
Credit limit increases in 2015 and 2016
Nationwide hasnt provided details of the checks it carried out before approving the credit 
limit increases. It has detailed the different factors it considers when deciding whether to 
increase a credit limit, but the details of the information it gathered is limited, So again, 
because of the lack of information, I havent been able to determine whether reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out.
Because of this, Ive looked at Mr Ks bank statements to see what reasonable and 
proportionate checks wouldve shown. The statements show that Mr Ks monthly income 
prior to the 2015 credit limit increase was around £1,100, and that prior to the 2016 credit 
limit increase it was around £1,000. This is broadly the same as his income in 2014.
Mr Ks existing consumer credit commitments had increased from £127 (May 2014) to £4501 
(August 2015) to £6533 (January 2016). These commitments relate to active accounts but I 
cant tell what type of consumer credit agreement they relate to, nor can I see what credit 
limits Mr K had access to/how much of the credit limit he was utilising. Ive looked at Mr Ks 
credit report to see if I can locate this information but its no longer available.
Mr Ks bank statements show that he was making regular repayments to other credit cards in 
2015 and 2016. The information shows that Mr K was using more than 50% of his income to 
service his consumer credit commitments. I would regard this as significant and a clear 
indicator that further lending was likely to be unaffordable for Mr K.
Looking at the account history for Mr Ks credit card with Nationwide, I can see that he 
generally paid the monthly minimum payment. So, his balance wasnt reducing by very 
much. Mr Ks bank statements show that he was significantly overdrawn throughout 2015 
and that he regularly incurred unauthorised overdraft charges. I would regard this as an 
indicator that further credit was unlikely to be sustainable for Mr K.
If Nationwide had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think these wouldve 
have shown that Mr K was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the further credit limit 
increases in 2015 and 2016. Based on what Ive seen, I think the credit limit increases in 2015 and 2016 were lent to Mr K 
irresponsibly. 
Ive considered whether Mr K has lost out here. Hes had the benefit of the credit limit 
increases and has spent the money. However, the credit limit increases meant that his 
indebtedness increased at a time when he wasnt able to repay it. And this has contributed 
to his subsequent struggles to make repayments.
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should:
1.Rework the account, removing all interest, fees and charges applied to balances over 
£1500
2.If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr K along with 8% 
simple interest per year * calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Nationwide should also remove all adverse information relating to the account 
recorded after 1 September 2015 from Mr Ks credit file 
3.If after the rework the outstanding balance exceeds £1,100, Nationwide should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr K. Once the balance is cleared, any adverse information 
relating to the account after 1 September 2015 should be removed from the credit file.
*HMRC may require the business to take off tax from the interest. If it does, the business 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he askes for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Nationwide Building Society must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman