DRN-4106216
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to correctly update his phone number which 
led to private information being shared with a third party.
What happened
Mr R has an account with HSBC and was set up to receive account information, like weekly 
mini statements, via text messages. In May 2021 Mr R contacted HSBC and updated his 
phone number. But HSBC has since explained that due to human error not all its systems 
were updated which meant text messages, including weekly mini statements, was sent to 
Mr Rs old phone number.
In December 2021 Mr R contacted HSBC to notify it that the phone was now being used by 
a colleague and was continuing to receive his HSBC text messages. HSBC advised Mr R 
that the number on file was correct. 
In September 2022 Mr R contacted HSBC again as his colleague was continuing to receive 
its text messages and raised a complaint. HSBC issued a final response on 26 September 
2022 and apologised for what had happened. HSBC confirmed it had stopped the weekly 
mini statement text message it had been sending to Mr Rs old number and offered him £100 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint and asked HSBC to pay him an additional £150, taking 
the total award to £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. HSBC agreed but Mr R 
asked to appeal and said he didnt feel the increased settlement was a fair way to resolve his 
complaint. As Mr R asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
HSBC accepts that it made a number of mistakes in this case. When Mr R first updated his 
phone number it wasnt changed on all HSBCs systems. And when Mr R revisited the 
problem with HSBC in May 2022 it failed to take the necessary steps to ensure the phone 
number on file was correct. I can understand why Mr R is upset, especially as private 
information including his mini statements were sent via text message to a number that had 
been given to a colleague. Ive taken the impact on Mr R into account when deciding how to 
resolve his complaint. 
In its submissions to us, HSBC has confirmed it reported the data breach  in line with its 
obligations. And whilst I understand HSBC failed to initially correct its error, the correct 
number was ultimately added to Mr Rs profile in September 2022 which appears to have 
resolved the situation. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBCs existing offer of £100 fairly reflected the levels of 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R and increased the award by a further £150, 
taking the total settlement to £250. 
In his response to the investigator, Mr R explained that HSBC had assured him there was no 
way the third party would continue to receive its text messages. And I can understand why 
Mr R was annoyed to find the issue hadnt been fixed, despite HSBCs assurances. Ive 
taken Mr Rs comments into account when deciding how to fairly resolve his complaint. 
In my view, an increase in the total settlement to £250 is a fair reflection of the issues raised 
by Mr R and the levels of distress and inconvenience caused. I dont seek to minimise 
Mr Rs experiences, but my view is that the increased award is a fair way to resolve his 
complaint that recognises the trouble and upset caused. As Im satisfied £250 is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve Mr Rs case, Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay him a 
total of £250 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman