DRN-3974382
The complaint
Mr M says Fair for You Enterprise CIC irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Mr M took out five credit agreements with Fair for You. A summary of his borrowing follows, 
accounts 1 to 4 were loans for specific goods from a named supplier and the funds were 
paid directly to the supplier. Account 5 was an open-ended shopping card. 
account taken outvalue, 
£term in 
weeksweekly 
repayment, £
1 07/05/2017 199.99 104 2.71
2 11/12/2017 349.99 52 8.04
3 05/06/2018 139.99 30 5.19
4 22/08/2018 439.99 78 7.31
5 29/10/2020 350 n/a 8.45
Mr M says he was struggling financially at the time Fair for You lent to him. He was on 
benefits, looking after his disabled wife and just taking out credit to survive. Most of his other 
loans have ended up with debt collectors. This has detrimentally impacted his mental health. 
He wants all interest he paid refunding. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She said there was evidence from the time of loan 
1 that Mr M would struggle to repay the borrowing and his finances only deteriorated over 
the term of the lending relationship. So it was wrong for Fair for You to lend to Mr M.
Fair for You disagreed with this assessment. In summary, it said Mr M came to it with 
evidence of using high-cost lending and it gave him a loan for an essential item so he would 
not have to borrow from a more expensive lender. It lends to some of the most economically 
vulnerable in society. And during the lending relationship his overall indebtedness reduced 
and recent credit was well managed. It argues Mr Ms finances would have been worse had 
he continued to use high-cost short-term credit, rather than its loans. It set out how much 
cheaper it was than Mr Ms likely alternatives.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Fair for You lent to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Fair for You had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for   
Mr M. In other words, it wasnt enough for Fair for You to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Fair for You did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr M. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did Fair for You complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing     
Mr Ms applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did Fair for You make fair lending decisions?
did Fair for You act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Fair for You asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the credit. It 
asked for his income (£1,159.60) and the purpose of each loan (1 and 3 were for strollers, 2 
and 4 were for gaming systems). It also spoke to Mr M to confirm his income and that the 
repayments were affordable. It completed credit checks to understand his credit history and 
existing credit commitments. From these checks Fair for You conclude the loans were 
affordable for Mr M.
Im not wholly persuaded these checks were proportionate given Mr M was on a relatively 
low income and his outgoings were not in any way reviewed. But I wont comment further on 
this as even based on the data it gathered, I dont think Fair for You made fair lending 
decisions. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
Whilst Fair for You decided the loan would be affordable on a pounds and pence basis and the data to an extent supported that, I cant see it thought about whether Mr M would be able 
to sustainably repay the debt  so without having to borrow to repay or suffering other 
adverse financial consequences. And it was obliged to do this. 
The credit check showed Mr M was struggling financially, he was already in arrears on a 
home credit account, an expensive way of borrowing. And he had taken out that loan after 
falling behind on another loan. So despite missing payments Mr M continued to borrow  I 
think from this Fair for You ought to have concluded Mr M was under financial pressure and 
most likely in a cycle of borrowing to repay. Equally, this loan was not to repay any of his 
existing debt, rather it was for a specific item. 
Fair for You argues that by lending to Mr M it prevented him from taking out more expensive 
credit elsewhere, but that does not change my finding that it ought not have extended Mr Ms 
indebtedness given what the credit check showed. Fair for You had to consider if its lending 
was responsible, not to assume what might happen if it did not lend. Giving the loan in no 
way guaranteed that Mr M would not borrow again from high-cost lenders. Arguably it may 
have driven him to in order to be able to make his repayments. It was clear from Mr Ms 
recent management of his accounts that he was struggling, and more debt would most likely 
only exacerbate this.
It follows I think Fair for You was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr M.
Loans 2-4 and the shopping card  
I have reached the same conclusion about all subsequent lending decisions. There had 
been no change to Mr Ms income. The credit checks show Mr M continued to struggle 
financially. In December 2017 he was still failing to make his contractual repayments on the 
same account that was in arrears at the time of loan 1. By December 2017 he had an 
arrangement to pay in place on a priority bill. And by October 2020 four accounts had 
defaulted and a CCJ had been registered against Mr M in 2018. This was for £1,127 and 
remained unsettled two years later. In addition Fair for You knew loans 2 and 4 were for non-
essential items. 
It also has supplied the report it checked showing Mr Ms bank transactions from May to 
August 2018. These showed that Mr Ms regular income did not cover his outgoings once 
gambling winnings and a one-off payment from a solicitor was stripped out. So I think this 
should have also flagged to Fair to You that there was a high risk Mr M would be unable to 
sustainably repay any borrowing then. 
It follows I find Fair for You was wrong to give loans 2 to 4 and the shopping card to Mr M.
I have thought carefully about Fair for Yous comments on its purpose and ethos. But this 
does not change its obligation to lend responsibly and for the reasons set out above I dont 
find that it did in these instances. Fair for You also flagged that when it spoke to Mr M he 
confirmed the repayments would be affordable, but this does not change its obligation to 
reach a fair and independent conclusion on the affordability.
I have not seen any evidence Fair for You acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in 
some other way.
Putting things right
It is reasonable Mr M repaid the capital he borrowed as he had the benefit of the items, bit 
he has paid interest and charges on credit that should not have been given to him. So Fair for You should:
For loans 1-4
Add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been
given all the loans. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this
amount.
As this will result in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).* 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file.
For the shopping card
Refund all the interest and charges Mr M has paid to date.
As this will create a positive balance, it should be returned to Mr M and 8% simple 
interest* should be added to the surplus.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Fair for You to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Fair for You Enterprise CIC must put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman