DRN-3788739
The complaint
Mr B complains about the settlement offered by Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
when he claimed on a car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B insured a car with Watford Insurance. The car was damaged in an accident and, after 
being inspected by engineers appointed by Watford Insurance, declared a write off.
Watford Insurance offered £14,752.00 in settlement of the claim, less the policy excess. It 
said this represented the market value of Mr Bs car at the time of the accident. 
Mr B was unhappy with this offer as he said replacing the car would cost significantly more 
than was being offered. When Watford Insurance rejected his complaint, he referred it to our 
service. Our investigator considered the settlement offered was too low and should be 
increased. Watford Insurance didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to do here is establish whether Watford Insurance has made a fair offer in 
settlement of the claim, and if not, what a fair offer would be. The starting point for my 
considerations is what the terms and conditions say about how claim settlements are 
calculated.
The policy terms and conditions say that in the event of a claim, the most Watford Insurance 
will pay in settlement is the market value of the car. The market value is defined as the 
retail market value based on that listed in the current Glasses Guide for purchasing, or 
replacing, the insured vehicle with one of the same make, model, age, trim level, recorded 
mileage and being in a similar condition. Glasses Guide is a motor trade publication 
recognised and used extensively throughout the motor vehicle industry to value new/used 
vehicles. Where Glasses Guide is not available or there is a dispute over valuation with your 
insurer, we will consider alternative equivalent motor trade publications such as CAP (CAP 
Motor Research Ltd) or Parkers Guide.
Vehicle valuation isnt an exact science. The various valuation tools and guides available 
use different data and algorithms to give valuations, meaning there can be differences 
between the guides for the same vehicle.
In Mr Bs case, the Glasss guide gave a value for his car of £14,840. Watford Insurance also 
obtained values from two other guides, Cazoo (£16,190) and CAP (£11,100). It considered 
that both were unrepresentative of the true value of the car, with Cazoos being too high and 
CAPs being too low. 
Watford Insurance said it looked at other information and concluded that £14,752 was a fair 
offer for Mr Bs car.
When carrying out our investigation, we checked the Cazoo and CAP valuations and 
obtained different values for Mr Bs car. CAP gave a value of £13,350 and Cazoo gave a 
value of £15,411. 
Usually where an insurer has obtained a valuation using one of the recognised guides, we 
dont check the guide ourselves, if were satisfied that the correct information has been used 
to obtain the valuation. The reason we did so on this occasion is that in its submissions to 
our service, Watford Insurance didnt provide the evidence of the Cazoo and CAP valuations 
until after our investigator had given her opinion that it had made an inadequate settlement 
offer.
We also obtained a valuation for Mr Bs car from a fourth tool, Auto Trader, which gave a 
value of £15,236. Watford Insurance says its unfair for us to rely on this tool as it isnt one 
they use when valuing vehicles. 
I note the policy definition doesnt include reference to Auto Traders guide values, but it 
does refer to alternative equivalent motor trade publications such as CAP or Parkers 
Guide. Im satisfied the policy definition of the market value doesnt exclude the Auto Trader 
guide and also that its a recognised guide for valuing vehicles. I think its fair to use the 
valuation obtained from Auto Trader when assessing whether the settlement offer from 
Watford Insurance was reasonable.
Watford Insurance agrees the CAP value we obtained is correct, as the wrong figure had 
been used in their initial review. In any case, it isnt disputed that even the correct (higher) 
value should be discounted from the assessment of the cars market value as its 
significantly lower than other guides. 
Watford Insurance disputes whether its fair for us to rely on the Cazoo valuation our 
investigator obtained. It had already done so, and excluded this from its calculations. 
While Watford Insurance had obtained a valuation from Cazoo, based on accurate 
information, it didnt provide us with screenshots or other evidence to show this. In those 
circumstances, we will check the valuation tool. After we did so, and obtained a different 
value which was one of the reasons our investigator concluded the offer was unreasonable, 
we were provided with the screenshot of the valuation Watford Insurance obtained from 
Cazoo.
Our valuation was obtained after Watford Insurances, and I think its reasonable to use it in 
assessing whether a reasonable offer was made. I say this because the valuation given is 
significantly lower than it was when Watford Insurance checked Cazoo. This suggests to me 
that the data used by Cazoo has changed, or the algorithm used to calculate values altered. 
The more recent value is closer to the values from Glasss and Auto Trader so I think it 
would be reasonable to say its more accurate. Ive concluded its reasonable to consider the 
Cazoo valuation obtained by our service when looking at the settlement offered 
One other point Id make briefly is that we have used the lower Cazoo valuation. The higher 
valuation was previously excluded as an outlier compared to the Glasss valuation. I note 
this value is around £900 more than the Auto Trader valuation. Im not sure whether the 
argument that it should be excluded as excessive is as strong as it was without the Auto 
Trader valuation. As Im using the lower value from Cazoo, I dont intend to consider this 
further.
Im aware Mr B has sent us adverts which show similar vehicles to his have been for sale for more than £17,000. We dont usually consider adverts to be more persuasive than the trade 
guides. This is because the adverts dont reflect the actual, or likely selling price, just the 
advertised price. The guides use likely and actual selling prices in their calculations. I havent 
seen anything which persuades me I should prefer the advertised prices found by Mr B as 
indicative of the market value of his car over the valuations obtained from the three trade 
guides Ive referenced above.
Im therefore satisfied the three valuations I should consider here are Glasss (£14,840), 
Auto Trader (£15,236) and the more recent Cazoo valuation (£15,411). Our general 
approach is that if an insurer has made an offer which sits within the range of the trade guide 
valuations (after outliers are excluded) then wed normally say it was fair. That isnt the case 
here. The amount offered by Watford Insurance is less than the bottom of the range of 
values. 
I therefore conclude that Watford Insurance didnt make a reasonable settlement offer, and 
that an additional sum should be paid to Mr B so that hes been made a fair settlement, 
which reflects the market value of the car.
Putting things right
Having concluded that the offer made by Watford Insurance didnt properly recognise the 
market value of Mr Bs car, Ive considered what an appropriate settlement would be.
Ive outlined above which three guide prices should be used to calculate a fair offer. I think, 
in line with our approach to these types of complaint, that an average of the three guides 
should be considered to represent a fair settlement and indication of the market value. The 
average of the three values is £15,162.33. This is £410.33 more than originally offered. So 
Watford Insurance should increase the settlement by £410.33, to £15,162.33. The policy 
excess would be deducted from this amount.
Watford Insurance should also pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per year, from the date of 
its original settlement offer to the date of final settlement. This is in line with our standard 
approach where the original settlement offer is insufficient and recognises that a higher 
amount should have been paid, and been available to the consumer during that period.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited must:
Increase the settlement paid on the claim by £410.33, to £15,162.33 (less the policy 
excess).
Pay simple interest at a rate of 8% on the additional amount from the date of its 
original settlement offer to the date of final settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman