DRN-3797311
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about her home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in respect of a 
claim she made when there was a water leak at her home.
What happened
Mrs H found her laminate flooring was wet. A leak was found on the dishwasher, which had 
been allowing water into the void beneath the floor, ultimately damaging the flooring 
throughout a large part of the home. The kitchen units and floor joists were also affected. 
UKIs drying company attended the day after the leak was fixed and drying equipment was in 
place within the fortnight, with some laminate, but not the chipboard under layer, having 
been removed. The company said it would assess the joists once the kitchen had been 
removed. That was due to happen in June 2021 and Mrs H cleared the kitchen to allow for 
that to happen, storing her belongings in the rest of the home. But, following a series of 
concerns, Mrs H lost faith in UKIs repair contractor. A new company was appointed.
Mrs H was happier with the new company and it was due to start work in mid-August 2021. 
But its kitchen fitter left. Alternative arrangements had to be made and no fitters were 
available for work for around two months. And a delay in approving the new costings meant 
the work wasnt due to start until December. In November, Mrs H found out that the 
contractor had told UKI it wouldnt be completing the work as it was likely to go into the new 
year and it was ceasing its work with insurers at the end of December 2021. Mrs H called 
UKI.
UKI said it could only reappoint the initial contractor, or offer a cash settlement. By this time 
Mrs H had appointed a firm of loss assessors. They put costs forward and negotiations 
began to settle the claim. Mrs H wanted UKI to pay the loss assessors direct but it refused to 
do so. Contractors arranged by the loss assessors began the reinstatement work on 
21 February 2022 and completed it on 4 April 2022. Payment was made to Mrs H, in the 
end, in May 2022.
In the meantime, UKIs second contractor wrote to Mrs H, on three occasions, demanding 
she pay it money which, it said, UKIs agent (which had sub-contracted it) had refused to 
pay. Its letters threatened court action. UKI told the contractor to only deal with it and 
apologised to Mrs H. UKI ultimately reached a settlement with the contractor for the sums in 
question and Mrs H received no further contact from it. 
Mrs H had been unhappy about a number of things throughout the course of the claim. UKI 
accepted that it had failed her in some respects and offered some compensation, with one 
proffered sum of £150 being paid into her bank account. But it didnt accept it had been 
responsible for everything Mrs H was unhappy about, or that it had been entirely responsible 
for the claim being so delayed. 
Our Investigator felt that UKI hadnt offered Mrs H enough compensation. He said a total of 
£900 was fair and reasonable. He said it should consider a disturbance allowance payment 
of £15 a day (a rate UKI had agreed during the course of the claim) for the period of 
reinstatement works. He said UKI should check that Mrs H had paid her policy excess only 
once, and if it had been duplicated, provide a refund. 
UKI said it wanted to be sure our investigator had taken into account the previous 
compensation sums offered, and he confirmed he had. UKI said that whilst it had given 
some agreement for the on-going claim concerns to be considered as part of this complaint, 
it hadnt intended for us to look at the situation surrounding the demand for money from its 
second contractor. Our Investigator said he felt its consent was sufficient. And he noted that, 
in any event, it had known Mrs H had been very unhappy with what had happened and, over 
a number of months, had been responding to her concerns. So he felt it had been aware of, 
and responded to, her complaint and consequently this was something we could consider as 
part of this complaint. 
Mrs H said she didnt think that everything which had happened, and which shed had 
concerns about, had been fully taken into account. She particularly identified a fall shed had 
when the chipboard left in the kitchen gave way, and that shed suffered panic attacks when 
receiving the letters from the second contractor. She felt UKI should have done more to 
prevent the letters being sent.
The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt a total of £2,500 
compensation was fairly and reasonably due. And that some disturbance allowance should 
also be paid. So I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
 
I expect that Mrs H, having read my background above, will think it is light on detail and 
doesnt, from her perspective, truly reflect what she has been through. But I can assure both 
parties that I have read and understood everything that has gone on. My background, by its 
nature, is a summary of key events rather than a record of every issue in question. Ill set out 
further relevant detail in my findings here. But, with everything that has gone on, I may not 
refer specifically to every cause for concern. My focus will be on what I see as the key claim 
activity and any failings of UKI. 
Payments to Mrs H
I can understand that Mrs H wanted to have control about monies being paid into her 
account. But I also understand UKIs position that it had a duty to pay Mrs H monies it 
accepted were due in relation to the claim and or complaint. And it paying those funds 
wouldnt affect Mrs Hs ability to complain further. In some cases though Id expect an 
insurer to listen to its policyholders concerns and either not make payments into an account, 
or make arrangements to pay others where requested. And a payment arrangement like 
that, by itself, wouldnt necessarily hold the insurer liable for related work that was 
completed. But here I can see that UKI had reasonable concerns about whether industry 
regulations, despite the mandate Mrs H had signed, precluded it from paying the loss 
assessor. I dont think UKI did anything wrong in this respect. 
Whilst I know Mrs H thinks UKI then caused further delay by needlessly asking for her bank 
details (when it already had them), I dont think that is what happened. Mrs Hs loss assessor 
asked for her details to pass on to UKI. But UKI pointed out to the assessor that it had not 
asked for them, that it already had them. I think the assessor had, not unreasonably, 
assumed this was data UKI would need. I dont think UKI instigated this request. It follows 
that I dont think it caused a delay in payment or was responsible for any frustration Mrs H 
felt at this time.
Living at the propertyMrs H chose to stay in her home. But when a policyholder does so an insurer will often pay a 
disturbance allowance. Not always just for the period of works, but whilst the home is 
disrupted too. This is separate to any compensation paid for living with the inconvenience. It 
is paid in respect of extra costs that likely arise on account of the disruption. 
Here UKI agreed to pay Mrs H £15 a day for the period the works were being undertaken. At 
one stage it reduced that to £10 but then revised it upwards, noting its initially agreed rate. 
However, UKI never did pay anything to Mrs H. Seemingly another handler took over who 
hadnt been aware of the initial agreement and didnt think UKI should pay any allowance for 
the period works were being done because it was not undertaking those works. Although the 
handler did later say that an allowance could be considered. 
I, however, dont think there is anything left to consider about the allowance. The fact that it 
was not UKIs contractor completing the work makes no difference. The contractor 
completed work that UKI accepted under the claim and which it had already previously 
accepted would create a situation where it reasonably needed to pay Mrs H a disturbance 
allowance. And it is known that works began on 21 February and ended on 4 April  roughly 
in-line with the period UKIs second contractor expected the work would take. An allowance 
at UKIs agreed rate of £15 a day for that period would equate to £645.00. And this is a sum 
I think UKI could, and given its previous agreement should, have paid to Mrs H before works 
began. So Im going to award interest* on it as well from 21 February 2022 until UKI pays it. 
But I also think that there were times when Mrs H was having to use the kitchen with limited 
equipment and in an inconvenient and unsatisfactory way. Strictly speaking she did have 
access to her cooker and other kitchen equipment other than whilst the works were being 
done. But, certainly in summer 2021, she had entirely packed the kitchen up ready for works 
to start in June and then August  but that didnt happen. And certainly, by the end of 
August, the flooring in the kitchen had become treacherous, meaning Mrs Hs access of it 
was even more limited which was resolved with temporary flooring being laid in early 
September. So I think its fair to say she likely had extra costs at this time due to having to 
use her home in this way, although not as much as she likely had during the period of works. 
But also that, if she had asked to be moved into alternative accommodation, I think UKI 
would have agreed to that. In the circumstances I think its only fair that an allowance is 
given to reflect that Mrs H likely incurred extra costs. I think £300 is a fair and reasonable 
sum in this respect for UKI to pay.     
Progress of the claim
I think the claim went on for longer than it should have done. And that this was largely due to 
UKI. I think Mrs H had good cause for concern with its first contractor. The straw that ended 
things was a slightly delayed arrival time for an appointment in June. But there had been 
issues preceding that, which Mrs H has clearly explained and detailed in her complaint 
letters to UKI and submissions to this service. Ive seen nothing from UKIs project 
management company in defence of any of that. 
Mrs H, quite reasonably in my view, asked for another contractor and UKI agreed. That 
naturally led to a delay of around two months. But that delay would have been avoided if the 
claim had been managed better, such as to avoid the loss of faith which occurred with the 
first contractor. 
The start date in August being set back wasnt, in my view, the fault of either party. 
Seemingly a key tradesman left at short notice and it was difficult to find a replacement. This 
caused the need for further quotes to be obtained and costs for the work to be resubmitted. 
There was a substantial lead time now necessary too. But, as I understand it, if costs had 
been agreed quickly at the end of August, work could have started in late October. As it was an error in the costings caused a delay and the start date was put back to December, with 
work scheduled to break for Christmas and complete in the new year. Of course that work 
then didnt take place at all. 
It was UKIs project management company which had put forward the new costings for 
approval. But, seemingly, the old cost for work wasnt removed before the new cost was 
added. This meant it looked like the cost for work had increased by around £8,000. It took a 
little while for the error to be noted, and amendments then had to be made and resubmitted 
for approval. A simple but avoidable error which, I think, had very substantial consequences. 
But for the error with the costings the work could have been done by the second contractors 
as it would have been due to complete before the end of the year. And it was only work 
which it had not started or which wouldnt complete before the end of the year, which it 
chose to withdraw from. Mrs Hs claim did not then complete until April 2022. With all of the 
stress and worry which went with a pronged claim; not least the wait whilst new costs were 
approved. I think this error also created the circumstances which led to the situation where 
UKIs contractor demanded monies from Mrs H. If that contractor had completed the works, 
which but for the costing error it most likely would have done, then no dispute over payment 
would have arisen. 
Communication
I can see that Mrs H has become very frustrated during the course of the claim with what 
she perceives as a lack of communication from UKI and its agents. UKI acknowledges that 
there were multiple people involved in the claim, which slowed communication somewhat, 
but thinks it was generally good. Im not persuaded that was the case. Mrs H has detailed 
times when promised call backs werent observed, and Ive seen at least one email where 
the claim handler acknowledges that he didnt call as promised. I also note that weekly 
update calls were agreed at one stage, but this didnt seem to happen. 
Furthermore, when a key incident occurred  the second contractor withdrawing from the 
work  UKI didnt contact Mrs H to tell her and given her options for the claim moving 
forwards. Rather it completely failed to manage this incident and Mrs H only found out that 
work wouldnt be going ahead when she called the second contractor about an appointment 
(which had also, unbeknown to Mrs H, been cancelled). I understand that the poor 
communication was, in general, frustrating for Mrs H and that UKIs failure to communicate 
this key claim development, meaning Mrs H found out about it in an entirely uncontrolled and 
unexpected way, was very upsetting for her.
I also think that the way in which UKI approached some key issues within the claim was 
somewhat misguided. For example, Mrs H wanted to stay living at home. But in one letter to 
her UKI said we may need to make alternative [accommodation] arrangements for you. 
From my removed perspective I can understand why UKI said this and even understand 
what it was trying to achieve  it was trying to fulfil its obligations as an insurer which involve 
caring for its policyholder. But from Mrs Hs perspective this, reasonably in my view, came 
over as pushy and overbearing. Mrs H wasnt left feeling as though UKI was caring for her. 
I think UKI got the balance and tone of its correspondence wrong at times during this claim, 
as highlighted by this example. I accept Mrs H was caused upset as a result.
I dont though think UKI was biased against Mrs H. I know she feels she was treated 
differently, that UKI would have acted differently if she was male and/or younger. But Im not 
persuaded that is necessarily the case. Nevertheless, it did get things wrong, which caused 
Mrs H upset. And it is the upset that is caused for which I award compensation.
Compensation for non-financial lossSo, as can be seen from the details Ive set out above, I think UKI, and its agents for whom it 
is liable, did fail Mrs H during this claim; both by handling it badly and communicating with 
her poorly. The various problems UKI caused, or failed to avoid, resulted not only in Mrs H 
being distressed and inconvenience, but also in her falling in the kitchen and suffering panic 
attacks when letters demanding money were received. And whilst Ive seen no medical 
evidence in these respects, I dont doubt what she has said. I also bear in mind that one 
attack began whilst Mrs H was on the phone to our investigator not long having received the 
first letter. 
Mrs H also had to live in her disrupted and damaged home for far longer than she should 
have done. I think it was prolonged by around eight months. And that meant Mrs H couldnt 
live in and use her home as she otherwise did for that extended period. For a lot of the time, 
to one extent or another, she had items stored and stacked where they shouldnt be, which 
also meant that her spare room often couldnt be used to accommodate guests. She had to 
live with no proper flooring during that time and the kitchen in its emptied/partially emptied 
state, sometimes with the microwave and kettle in the front room. 
I think this has been a very distressing time for Mrs H, to the point where panic attacks were 
suffered, and that she has been caused significant inconvenience over an unreasonably 
prolonged period. As I note she also suffered a fall which I accept caused her some 
short-term discomfort. Overall I think compensation totalling £2,500 is fairly and reasonably 
due to Mrs H.
However, I must bear in mind that UKI has paid Mrs H £150 compensation already (other 
sums offered by it and its agent werent paid and didnt total the amount Ive found is fairly 
and reasonably due). The sum of £150 can reasonably be off-set against my total award.
And Im also going to off-set the excess amount against the total award. Mrs Hs policy 
requires her to pay the first £450 of any claim. And Mrs H did initially pay this to UKIs 
second contractor. However, the second contractor later refunded this to Mrs H. When UKI 
then paid for the reinstatement work undertaken by Mrs Hs loss assessor, no deduction was 
made for the excess amount. So Mrs Hs obligation in this respect still remains., Of course, 
that doesnt diminish or detract from the fact that UKI has failed her during this claim, but 
those failures also dont mean that Mrs Hs obligation to pay the excess is removed. As she 
has had the benefit of the policy  in that her home was restored  she fairly has to pay the 
excess the policy requires in that respect. Unless the parties can show me the excess was 
accounted for elsewhere in the claim, Im going to allow it to be taken into account against 
the compensation sum Im awarding. 
I intend to award a total of £2,500 compensation. From that £600 can be deducted  the 
£150 compensation already paid, plus the £450 excess sum. Meaning UKI will now have to 
pay Mrs H, if my final decision remains the same and she accepts it within the deadline 
given, £1,900 compensation.    
Mrs H said she had not realised that the excess was still outstanding. And she wanted to be 
clear that she had not tried to avoid paying this sum.
UKI said the issue and upset caused by the letters from the second contractor should not be 
considered as part of this complaint. It said it would have liked the opportunity to resolve this 
matter directly with Mrs H. Otherwise regarding the compensation award it felt it was unfair 
for me to not deduct the other compensation amounts (totalling £600) it had offered but 
Mrs H had not accepted, from my award. It said that could mean Mrs H could approach it 
separately for this amount to also be paid. And it also said it did not think any increase beyond the compensation it had already offered (for upset caused by issues other than the 
letters) was warranted. UKI said it otherwise largely agreed with my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any objection to my awards and comments made regarding the 
disturbance allowance. So I wont say anything more about that here.
I understand that Mrs H did not realise the excess sum was outstanding. I certainly hadnt 
meant to suggest that she had tried to avoid paying it. Rather, having spotted in my review 
that it had not been accounted for, I was explaining how that had come about and why I had 
to account for it now. 
I appreciate that UKI thinks I should not be including the upset in respect of the letters Mrs H 
received from its contractor within this decision. But I am satisfied that this complaint aspect 
correctly and clearly falls within my scope of consideration. Im satisfied that UKI knew  via 
us and through the contact of others, that Mrs H had a cause for complaint from shortly after 
she received the first letter on 11 February 2022. Mrs H was extremely upset and facing a 
potential financial loss because she was being asked for payment. And UKI did act to 
mitigate the potential for financial loss and further upset being caused by making direct 
contact with the contractor to resolve its payment demand. And I certainly commend it for 
that. But what UKI did not do then  even though it had been made clear to it that Mrs H had 
been caused upset by this matter  was to offer her any compensation for that. It took a 
couple of months for the situation to be resolved, and it was then another couple of months 
before our Investigator issued his view which took into account the upset caused by this 
event. That was more than ample time for UKI to look into how this had affected Mrs H 
and/or make an offer of compensation to her, if it had wanted to. As such it was appropriate 
for me to take this issue into consideration as part of my provisional decision, and my 
findings in respect of it, including my additional comments here, now form part of this my 
final decision. 
I am not deducting the £600 previously offered by UKI from my compensation award 
because it has not been paid. And I dont think for a minute that Mrs H would accept my 
decision and then try and get this other sum from UKI. Further, UKI should have noted from 
my provisional decision that I talked about the total compensation due for all of the upset 
UKI had caused. So Im really unsure why UKI would think that Mrs H, if she were minded to 
which I am satisfied she is not, could reasonably seek to ask it for additional but previously 
offered sums to be paid. 
Ive reviewed UKIs reasons for thinking its originally offered compensation was fair and 
reasonable. But those were its views as initially stated and considered by me when I made 
my provisional decision. UKI will not be surprised to hear that its reiteration of these points 
has not given me cause to change my mind on the fair and reasonable compensation due to 
Mrs H, as stated and explained in my provisional findings. 
Ive considered the replies made to my provisional decision. But my views on the fair and 
reasonable outcome for this complaint havent changed. As such my provisional findings, 
along with those set out here, are the findings of this, my final decision.  
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Mrs H:£645 as a disturbance allowance, plus interest* from 21 February 2022 until settlement is 
made.
£300 as a disturbance allowance (for a different period).
£1,900 compensation, where my total award is £2,500 but £600 of that is accounted for 
by a previous payment and the excess sum.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before .
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman