DRN-2551721
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to refund only half of £65,000 she lost 
to an investment scam.
  
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to both parties. And so I wont set them out in great 
detail here. All accept Miss V was the unfortunate victim of an investment scam, where 
fraudsters posed as a legitimate firm.
The fraudsters operated what is known as a cloned firm. That is they copied the genuine 
branding, information and paperwork of a legitimate firm, and posed as employees, but 
changed contact details in an attempt to trick victims.
Miss V was given the details of the cloned investment firm by her mother, who has also 
fallen victim but is not a party to this complaint. Miss Vs mother had already invested, 
received her paperwork, and could check on her investment using an online portal. Miss V 
used the link her mother provided and was directed to a website that bore all the branding of 
a well-known, legitimate business that does provide investment opportunities. She 
completed an online form and was contacted by someone claiming to work for the legitimate 
firm.
Miss V has described how the person was very professional, knowledgeable about the 
investment opportunities and was able to answer all of her questions. She searched the 
persons name and found he did work for the firm he claimed to. Shes described how she 
subsequently spoke with several other people, claiming to work across different 
departments, whom also came across as very genuine and professional.
Miss V was sent paperwork which appeared entirely legitimate. And so she decided to invest 
£65,000. She made six different payments, across eight days, through her online banking.
The scam was revealed when Miss Vs mother lost access to an online portal that the 
scammers had set up. That prompted enquiries from Miss V and her mother. Contact with 
the firm that had been cloned uncovered the true nature of what theyd been involved in.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. It says Miss V didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing she was engaged in a legitimate investment.
It recognised that it had not done enough to try and prevent the scam as it hadnt given 
effective warnings at the time Miss V was making the payments to the scammer. And so it 
agreed to refund 50% off Miss Vs loss. 
Miss V was unhappy with HSBCs position and asked us to consider her complaint. One of 
our investigators looked into what had happened and thought HSBC should refund Miss V in 
full. He was satisfied Miss V did have a reasonable basis for belief. He highlighted, among 
other things, the sophistication of the scam in that a legitimate firm had been cloned and 
what was otherwise genuine paperwork had been sent to Miss V.
Our investigator also recommended a payment of £200 for distress and inconvenience 
caused by HSBC as it hadnt treated Miss V well, with promised calls not being made and 
difficulties in speaking with the fraud department.
HSBC disagreed and said that if Miss V had carried out suitable checks the scam would 
have been revealed. It suggested she could have checked the website of the FCA, or the 
genuine firm, and she would have found warnings about the specific scam she fell victim to. 
It also said she could have checked the contact details she had been given and these would 
also have been revealed as false. It was silent on the issue of compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld and for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Miss V 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances, HSBC should now, fairly and reasonably, compensate Miss V 
for her loss by paying her the remaining 50%.
The money originated from Miss Vs savings. Miss V might have gone on to invest 
the money elsewhere, had it not been lost. But its not possible to say exactly what 
she would have done with the money or what rate of return she might have earned. 
And so the most appropriate rate of interest for the bank to pay is that of the savings 
account from which the funds came. The evidence provided by Miss V shows that as 
being 0.1% per year. 
The spending on Miss Vs account was very much out of character for her, to the 
extent that HSBC ought to have contacted her about the payments or suspended her 
account until it had spoken to her about the purpose for the payments. Had it done 
so, the scam would likely have been revealed. And so the interest payment awarded 
to Miss V should be calculated from the date the funds left her account to the date of 
settlement.
I dont intend to comment on whether the bank provided effective warnings or not. Its 
already said it didnt do enough here. And the evidence shows no direct contact from the 
bank when it ought to have been questioning the payments with Miss V directly. 
The outstanding issue in dispute is whether Miss V had a reasonable basis for belief. Im 
satisfied she did. HSBCs position is that its identified a number of checks Miss V might 
have carried out and which it says ought to have revealed the scam. Its quite possible that 
such checks would have stopped her from falling victim. But the question to answer is 
whether Miss V had a reasonable basis for believing that she was making a payment for 
legitimate purposes. And I find that the paperwork she was sent, having been stolen and 
copied from a genuine firm, is highly persuasive. And it followed Miss V visiting a genuine 
looking website and talking with several people that sounded professional and convincing. 
Miss V was in a position where she had no reason to suspect she wasnt engaged in 
something completely above board- particularly in the absence of an effective warning from 
HSBC about cloned investment scams and how to avoid them. She wasnt an experienced 
investor and I cant see there were any red flags to suggest that all might not be as it 
seemed. Contact was not out of blue, given she initiated it. And she knew her mother had 
already successfully invested and was able to access her own account through an online 
portal.  I know HSBC has pointed to a number of checks that Miss V might have carried out, and 
small details within the correspondence that might have alerted her to something not being 
right. But Im not persuaded the points raised  separately or collectively  are sufficient to 
have caused Miss V concerns that she wasnt dealing with a legitimate investment firm or 
demonstrate that Miss V , in the particular circumstances of this case, lacked a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payments. 
HSBC didnt respond to the investigators recommendation for £200 compensation and so I 
see no reason to depart from it. Its clear Miss V has felt frustrated by the process of 
reporting the scam and throughout the handling of her claim and I think HSBC couldve done 
better here  so I think £200 is fair compensation in the circumstances  
Putting things right
HSBC ought to have refunded Miss V in full under the CRM Code and so its fair and 
reasonably that it pays fair compensation to that effect now. It should:
refund the remaining £32,500 Miss V lost to the scam;
pay interest on the total loss at 0.1% per year from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement;
pay Miss V £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBCUK Bank Plc.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman