DRN-3567666
The complaint
Mrs U complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited unfairly cancelled 
her direct debit, didnt reinstate her Over 50s policy and then unfairly kept the premiums 
shed paid.  
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said she couldnt be certain 
who cancelled the direct debit in August 2020, but that Royal London fairly wrote to Mrs U 
with two missed premium letters and a cancellation notice. And when Mrs U did contact 
Royal London to reinstate the policy, it fairly offered to allow her to repay the outstanding 
amount over three months outside of the terms and conditions, but this was refused by 
Mrs U. As a result, she didnt think it would be fair to ask Royal London to reinstate or refund 
the premiums it had taken. 
Mrs U disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she didnt cancel the 
direct debit and Royal London had unfairly said it wouldnt return the premiums it has already 
taken. She doesnt think Royal London wouldve ever accepted a claim under this policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs U. Ive looked at and considered all the evidence she and Royal 
London have provided  and Id like to assure her that if I dont mention a particular point, its 
not because I havent considered it, but to focus instead on whats important to the outcome. 
In order to ask Royal London to reinstate the policy or refund Mrs Us premiums, Id need to 
be satisfied it made a mistake when administering this policy. 
Mrs U has provided information from her bank that says the direct debit was cancelled by the 
originator i.e. Royal London. 
Royal London has said it didnt cancel Mrs Us direct debit and when a payment is missed a 
letter is automated on its systems. And if three payments in a row are missed the policy 
lapses. It said it would only not take a payment if the direct debit was cancelled with Mrs Us 
bank by Mrs U or she contacted Royal London to confirm she no longer wanted the policy. It 
added that a conversation took place with Mrs U a few months later where she explained her 
circumstances. But when it said that it was in the process of reinstating the policy Mrs U 
refused to continue because she didnt want to catch up on the payments. 
Ive considered the evidence from Mrs Us bank and Royal London in relation to how the 
direct debit system works for Mrs Us policy. Royal London says its direct debit system 
automatically generates a request to take a direct debit every month and this can only be 
stopped if there is customer contact requesting this or the direct debit is cancelled by Mrs U 
with her bank. Mrs U didnt speak to Royal London until November 2020, so it says it had no 
reason to cancel the direct debit in August 2020. And the banks screenshots confirm the 
direct debit wasnt confirmed as cancelled until January 2022. 
Here, Im not satisfied Royal London did cancel the direct debit that shouldve been taken in 
August 2020. From the screenshots of Royal Londons systems, it appears the direct debit 
request wasnt automatically loaded for the next month. And there is nothing on its systems 
which suggests it cancelled the request to receive the direct debit. Additionally, it had no 
reason not to request the money. I dont think it wouldnt be in its interest to cancel direct 
debits for its customers considering the administration it would take to resolve such a 
situation and the consequences for customers not having cover in place. It would also be a 
reputational risk to suddenly cancel customer direct debits without notice. 
Mrs Us bank says the direct debit was re-established in September 2020 following a 
conversation with Mrs U. But Mrs U didnt contact Royal London until November 2020. 
Im not persuaded from the banks screenshots that the system confirms Royal London 
cancelled the direct debit on 29 July 2020 (the day after the last successful payment was 
taken). It just confirms the originator of the direct debit is Royal London. Like it does on the 
banks system in September 2020 when Mrs U tried to reinstate the direct debit. However, 
another screenshot from the bank does confirm that the direct debit was cancelled by Royal 
London (after the policy had lapsed), but not until January 2022  not July or August 2020. 
Ive also considered whether Royal London failed to let Mrs U know about the missed 
payments. After reviewing the correspondence provided by Royal London, Im satisfied it 
correctly wrote out to Mrs U to let her know she was in arrears on her policy. It also made 
her aware the policies would be cancelled if no further payment was made. And because no 
further payment was made it fairly cancelled the policy and sent confirmation this had been 
done. I note Mrs U says the letter about the direct debits werent received but they were 
correctly addressed so Im not satisfied Royal London made an error in relation to notifying 
her of the issue with her direct debit. 
Because Mrs U was so far behind her monthly payment, Royal London decided that she 
needed to pay it the outstanding premiums in order to catch up on what was outstanding. 
And because the policy has a moratorium period which customers have to be up to date on 
their premiums in order to be fully covered, Mrs U would have an unfair advantage to other 
customers if she had to make a claim but wasnt fully up to date with her premiums. I dont 
think thats unreasonable. And neither would it be reasonable to ask Royal London to refund 
Mrs U with the premiums for a policy it was on risk for whilst the premiums were being taken. 
So, I cant be certain who cancelled the direct debit, but Im not satisfied it was Royal London 
who did so. Mrs U appears to have wanted the policy to continue in September 2020 and 
then November 2020  but she wasnt willing to catch up on the premiums within three 
months as she said she couldnt afford it. So, Im not satisfied Royal London made a mistake 
here with the direct debit and subsequently the cancellation of the policy. 
As a result, I cant fairly ask Royal London to refund the premiums Mrs U paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman