DRN-1682097
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2002. Ms M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Barclays made it clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Ms M 
has said that she didnt need the cover and wasnt aware it had been applied to the 
account. Although I appreciate what Ms M says about the incentives to sell PPI due 
to commission, I note  that this PPI appears to have been sold during a postal sale 
without any involvement of a representative. Ive seen a copy of the application form. 
This shows that Ms M was given a choice about whether to take PPI and that she 
chose to take it out by ticking the box specifically to take it. The box to take PPI was 
headed payment protection.
 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. So for example, it didnt need to take into account what Ms M has told us 
about her existing repayment provisions or her other circumstances at the time of the 
sale. But it did have to make sure Ms M got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Although I note what Ms M 
says about her financial situation, I havent seen sufficient evidence to suggest that 
the cost of the PPI itself was unaffordable for her at the time of the sale. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms M about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Ms M, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said - including what she has about her existing 
repayment provisions. But these points dont change my decision. It wouldnt have been 
Barclays responsibility to take into account Ms Ms existing repayment provisions as this was 
a postal sale without any involvement from a representative.
As already mentioned, it appears Ms M wanted PPI despite her existing repayment 
provisions and the PPI policy would have paid out in addition to Ms Ms sick pay and would 
also have paid out if she lost her job  for up to 12 months per claim. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman