DRN-4490589
The complaint
Mr R has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined a claim on his pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 22 July 2022 Mr R took out a pet insurance policy with HDI for his dog. The policy 
doesnt cover illnesses where the signs or symptoms are noticed within the first 14 days of 
the policy (the waiting period).
Mr R says on 24 September 2022 the dog injured his left hind leg whilst playing with a ball. 
On 27 September he took the dog to the vet because of lameness. The vet diagnosed partial 
crucial ligament damage. In January 2023 the dog was operated on for a cruciate repair. 
When Mr R made a claim for the cost of the treatment, HDI declined the claim on the basis 
that the symptoms had been noticed in the waiting period as Mr Rs vet had recorded at the 
time of the September visit that the dog had been lame on and off for a few months. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said the dog had been injured while turning quickly and falling on his 
left side. He thought the vets notes were incorrect.
As HDI didnt change its decision, Mr R brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He didnt think HDI had 
treated Mr R unfairly in relying on the vets evidence to decline the claim.
As Mr R didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I do understand how strongly Mr R feels that his claim should be accepted. I also appreciate 
that the treatment claimed for was expensive.
However, Mr Rs policy in common with most other policies has various limitations on cover. 
In particular the policy states that it doesnt cover The recurrence or continuation of illness 
or disease from which your pet previously suffered arising prior to or within 14 days of the 
start of this insurance.
The policy defines illness as Changes in your pets state of health that are not caused by 
an accident, or any which may be resulting from gradual biological cause. Recurring and/or 
ongoing illnesses shall be considered as one loss.
This is a common exclusion in pet insurance policies and I dont think its unreasonable. That 
means Mr R wouldnt be covered for an illness that occurred or showed symptoms before 4 
August 2022.
HDI says that the treatment costs Mr R is claiming for are most likely for an illness that 
showed symptoms in the first 14 days of the policy, namely cruciate ligament damage. 
The issue for me to decide is whether HDI treated Mr R fairly and reasonably in coming to 
that conclusion.
In order to reach a decision Ive considered the vets evidence carefully. The vets notes for 
27 September 2022 state:
lameness on and off left hind for a few months
Did react to stifle manipulation, partial CCL damage, no swelling of joint effusion
Rest and nsaids, c in 3-4 weeks, if no better then xray
Because these notes were made at the time, I think its more likely they reflect what was said 
than an individuals recollection some time after the event. Vets have a professional duty to 
make accurate records of consultations that have taken place. The reference to the dog 
being lame on and off for a few months suggests that the dog had been lame for at least 
two months even though he hadnt been seen by the vet during that time. HDI queried with 
the vet when the lameness had first been noticed. The vet said they didnt know and had 
only noted what the owner had told them. That indicates to me that the lameness had 
probably started during or before the first 14 days of the policy.
In addition, the vets notes make no reference to the dog falling and/or suffering from sudden 
trauma. Id have expected the vet to have noted this important detail if Mr R had mentioned it 
as it would have helped the vet understand how the lameness had occurred.
Ive considered Mr Rs submissions carefully. I understand he doesnt think the vets notes 
accurately reflect the consultation. But taking into account all the evidence, on balance I 
think it was fair for HDI to base its decision to decline the claim on these notes and so I dont 
think HDI treated Mr R unfairly in relying on this exclusion to decline his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman