DRN-3190513
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Standard Life Savings Limited (SL), his investment provider for his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and his ISA, provided a poor service which led to a 
financial loss. He would like his investments to be reinstated.
Mr Y has a separate complaint about his financial adviser which I wont discuss in detail 
here.  
What happened
Mr Ys pension was invested in a SIPP with SL. He also held an ISA with them. Under the 
terms of his arrangement with SL, the investments were only available to Mr Y if he had a 
financial adviser assigned to his account at all times. Effectively, his financial adviser 
enabled his access to the SL arrangement.
I understand that in early 2013 Mr Y gained online access to his SL investments. This gave 
him direct access to the investments he held with them.
In 2018 Mr Y became unhappy with his financial advisers plans for their business. And was 
also unhappy that his long-standing adviser had left the business. So in July 2018, Mr Y 
wrote to his financial adviser to express his concern. This led to a series of correspondence. 
And ultimately led to Mr Ys financial adviser terminating their agreement to provide financial 
advice to Mr Y.  
On 11 October 2018, SL told Mr Ys financial adviser that by removing them as agents on Mr 
Ys account  and because they hadnt been replaced  his investment portfolio would be 
sold to cash. Mr Ys adviser asked SL not to proceed with the removal of the agency so that 
the investments wouldnt be sold. SL told them the process would be stopped. But this 
wasnt the case.
On 12 October 2018, SL wrote to Mr Y, using the email address they held for him, to tell him 
that as his financial adviser had asked them to remove them as his agent, his investments 
couldnt remain in the managed portfolio they were in. Instead, they would sell all the 
investments held in the managed portfolio within 10 business days. 
On 30 October 2018, SL wrote to Mr Y - using the same email address  to tell him his 
financial adviser had been removed from his account. They said theyd stopped the payment 
of any adviser charges or commission that he was paying to his advisers as they no longer 
acted for him. And gave him information on how to appoint a new financial adviser, or how to 
deal directly with them. The email noted that Mr Y could view his account through his online 
access. 
Mr Y said he didnt receive the 12 October 2018 email. Or the 30 October 2018 email. He 
said that he no longer used or had access to the email address SL had used.
On 2 November 2018, SL confirmed to Mr Ys adviser that theyd been removed as agent on 
Mr Ys investments. SL told the adviser that Mr Ys investments wouldnt be encashed. They 
said theyd remove his adviser as agent on his account. 
In January 2019, Mr Y received a statement which showed that his ISA investments were 
mainly held in cash. He didnt at that stage know what had happened to his SIPP 
investments. He discovered later that the encashment had happened as SL required him to 
have a financial adviser assigned to his account at all times. And that as hed not had a 
financial adviser at that time his funds were moved into cash. 
Unhappy, Mr Y complained to both SL and his financial adviser. He said he hadnt been 
warned about the encashment. He was also unhappy that SL had failed to stop his monthly 
withdrawals, as he had requested.
Mr Ys financial adviser raised a complaint with SL. In their 5 July 2019 final response letter 
to Mr Ys financial adviser, SL didnt agree that they shouldnt have encashed Mr Ys 
investments. But acknowledged that they had incorrectly told Mr Ys adviser that he would 
remain invested despite having no financial adviser linked to his account. They apologised 
for their error and offered to pay Mr Y £200 for the trouble theyd caused. SL said that when 
theyd received the request to remove Mr Ys adviser from his account, theyd emailed him 
on 12 October 2018 to explain their process. And had explained that they intended to sell his 
investments if he didnt appoint a new adviser. They felt theyd given Mr Y the opportunity to 
take action before theyd sold his investments. And said that as they didnt receive a 
response theyd processed the sale to cash in line with their process. 
Mr Y didnt think this was fair. So he complained directly to SL. 
In their final response letter of 13 August 2019, SL apologised for failing to cancel Mr Ys 
rnonthly withdrawal request. They said theyd arranged for this to be cancelled with 
immediate effect. And offered a compensation payment of £300 for their error. SL said they 
werent able to reinstate his investments. They acknowledged that theyd provided incorrect 
information to Mr Ys adviser, as theyd explained in their 5 July 2019 final response letter. 
They said that the £200 theyd offered as compensation for their mistake had never been 
paid to Mr Y. But that they would arrange for this to be paid to him shortly. They 
acknowledged that Mr Y hadnt wanted his investments to be sold in October 2018. But said 
that the sale had been necessary as Mr Y no longer had an adviser acting on his behalf. SL 
said that theyd sent an email on 12 October 2018 before the sale had taken place. And that 
theyd emailed him again on 30 October 2018 after his investments had been sold. They 
acknowledged that these emails had been sent to Mr Ys old email address. But said theyd 
had no way of knowing the email address was out of date. They also said that contract notes 
relating to the sales had been shared with Mr Y. SL confirmed later on that the contract 
notes were uploaded to the online platform for Mr Y to view. They said he wouldve received 
an email notification to tell him that something had been added to his document library.
Mr Y was unhappy with this response. So brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ys complaint should be upheld. She felt that SL had acted 
fairly. She felt theyd followed their terms and conditions and notified him, using the 
information they held for him, that they were going to move his funds into cash. 
Mr Y didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that there were three parties in his complaint: 
himself, SL and his financial adviser. He acknowledged that this service needed to consider 
his complaint with each of the businesses separately. But felt that in doing that wed failed to 
give a true picture. He didnt think it was right that our investigator didnt consider that either 
of the businesses had done anything wrong. He felt that SL shouldnt be allowed to rely on 
their terms and conditions to avoid liability. And asked this service to consider whether theyd 
been professional in their communications. Mr Y felt that if either company had told him: that he had to have a discretionary investment manager to manage my WRAP platform then 
I would have sought one but both companies failed to give this advice. He said SL had used 
a long out-of-date email address which he had no way of receiving. And that theyd failed to 
write or telephone him to find out what he wanted to do after he didnt reply to their 12 
October 2018 email. He felt that SLs failure to communicate properly had led to his portfolio 
being sold without his consent. And that this had led to a financial loss. 
From what I understand, Mr Y first found out his investments had been in cashed in January 
2019, although at that time he was unsure whether just his ISA had been affected. I 
understand that Mr Y reinvested those funds in November 2019.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be very disappointing to 
Mr Y. But Im satisfied that although SL did make mistakes, this didnt directly lead to the 
encashment of Mr Ys investment. I also consider that SL have made reasonable 
compensation offers in respect of their mistakes. 
Ill first consider SLs compensation offer in respect of the missed request from Mr Y to 
cancel his monthly withdrawal request.
Was SLs compensation offer for the missed withdrawal request fair?
Mr Y said that SL ignored his April 2019 request to change his monthly withdrawals with 
effect from 1 May 2019. 
He also said that on 2 May 2019 he asked to make a change to his withdrawal plan due to 
SLs failure to respond to his request to change his monthly withdrawals. He said that SL 
had sent him a trivial amount of compensation but hadnt been professional enough to ask 
him what future withdrawals hed like to make in future due to SLs failure to action his 
requests.
In their final response letter, SL offered Mr Y £300 for their failure to process his request 
regarding his monthly withdrawals. They arranged for the withdrawals to be cancelled and 
apologised for their error. And asked Mr Y to contact them to discuss his additional issues.
Mr Y also told this service that hed recently experienced another administration problem 
with SL. 
From what Ive seen, it was clearly frustrating that SL didnt action Mr Ys request at the time 
he made it. And it became even more so when SL didnt quickly respond to Mr Ys formal 
complaint. But I consider that SL did eventually take steps to address Mr Ys request and to 
put things right. Therefore Im satisfied that their offer of £300 compensation in respect of 
this issue was reasonable under the circumstances. So I wont be asking SL to do any more 
in respect of this part of Mr Ys complaint. 
Ill now consider Mr Ys complaint that SL didnt inform him that they would encash his 
investments without his instruction. And whether that means SL should be asked to reinstate 
his investments as if the encashment hadnt happened.Did SL follow the correct process after Mr Ys adviser told them they would no longer be his 
agent?
SL said that they acted within the remit of their terms and conditions. They said that when Mr 
Ys adviser was removed as his agent the permissions to hold the investment with the 
Discretionary Investment Manager (DIM) were no longer in place. They said they emailed Mr 
Y, using the email address that had been added to the platform, to explain what would 
happen. They said that the e-mail wasnt returned as undeliverable, so they assumed the 
address was correct. And that if the email had been returned, they wouldve tried to call Mr Y 
for a correct e-mail address. And then wouldve sent the communication again.
They also followed up with a second email confirming that Mr Ys financial adviser had been 
removed from his account. And made the contract notes relating to the sales of Mr Ys 
investments available on his online platform. SL noted that Mr Y wouldve received an email 
notification to tell him something had been added to his document library. I acknowledge 
that Mr Y wouldnt have received this notification. As it wouldve been sent to the incorrect 
email address SL held on their records. 
SL also said that Mr Y had confirmed that he noticed his holdings were in cash in January 
2019. But that Mr Y hadnt reinvested until November 2019. They said that Mr Y knew he 
remained in cash but took no action to mitigate any perceived loss he feels may have 
occurred.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the arrangement through which Mr Y invested with 
SL. The terms and conditions for the Wrap SIPP state the following: 
5.4 We may instruct the trustee to sell an investment without your agreement 
And under the Discretionary investment manager section: 
5.19 Wrap SIPP members who do not wish to take their own investment decisions may use 
the services of a discretionary investment manager to take day-to-day investment decisions 
for them in one of two ways  ...
In either case, an appropriate agreement dealing with investment arrangements will need to 
be entered into with any discretionary investment manager (this may be with us or your 
financial adviser) (and where managing assets on the wrap platform, the discretionary 
investment manager will need to enter into a discretionary investment manager agreement) 
before that discretionary investment manager begins to manage assets on or off the wrap 
platform. 
The terms and conditions for Wrap clients explain under 11.6 that: 
An appropriate agreement dealing with investment arrangements will need to be entered into 
with any discretionary investment manager (this may be with you, your financial adviser 
and/or the relevant wrap product provider) before the discretionary investment manager 
begins to manage assets on or off the wrap platform. 
And explain under 11.12 that if the financial adviser has stopped providing the required 
services: 
we will within 10 business days move all the investments held in that managed portfolio or 
advised portfolio to the relevant wrap product on the wrap platform, unless we notify you that 
we will sell all the investments and pay the proceeds into the cash account for the relevant 
wrap product. .. Where an investment is not available on the wrap platform, we will sell the investment and pay the proceeds into the cash account for the relevant wrap product.
Section 18 of these terms and conditions covers how SL will communicate with their 
customers. 18.1 states that SL will contact customers: in accordance with the contact 
details you and your financial adviser provided on your latest application or if you have 
notified us of updated contact information we will use the updated information. 
And 18.3 states that SL can: serve notices on you by email to an email address which you 
or your financial adviser have provided to us in relation to your wrap account. You will be 
deemed to have consented to receiving notices by email if you or your financial adviser has 
provided us with an email address in relation to your wrap account. 
The terms and conditions for the DIM echo the terms under the Wrap SIPP in respect of 
what will happen if the financial adviser stops providing a service to the customer: 
5.18 When we become aware you cant continue in role (for whatever reason) 
We will (i) within 10 business days sell all the relevant wrap customer(s) investments held in 
that managed portfolio(s) and pay the proceeds into the relevant wrap product cash account 
and (ii) cease facilitating the payment of the portfolio manager fee (other than any portfolio 
manager fee accrued to the date of such event) in respect of those investments. You must 
notify us immediately if you become aware that any of the above events have happened or 
are going to happen.
Having carefully reviewed the relevant terms and conditions, I note the following:
A financial adviser must be linked to the account
If that stops, the investments will be encashed within 10 business days
SL can communicate with their customers by email where they, or their adviser, have 
provided an email address.
Mr Y said that he and SL exchanged emails using a different email address from the one 
they used to give him the important information in October 2018. He felt that this showed 
that SL had his current email address. And that they shouldve used it when advising him of 
the pending sale of his portfolio. 
Ive carefully considered what both Mr Y and SL have said. SL used the email address that 
Mr Y had added to the platform. This is in line with their terms and conditions. And Ive no 
evidence that Mr Y ever asked SL to add the newer email address he refers to here to their 
records. So Im satisfied that SL only held one email address on their records. And that Mr Y 
had provided this when he signed up for online access. Ive seen no evidence that Mr Y ever 
told SL  or his adviser - that he no longer used that email address.  
I acknowledge that Mr Y doesnt agree that SL should be able to use their terms and 
conditions to reject his complaint, but it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold his 
complaint unless SL failed to follow their terms and conditions. Or made an error. Having 
reviewed the relevant terms and conditions, Im satisfied that SL correctly followed their 
terms and conditions when they encashed Mr Ys investments after his adviser was removed 
from his account. However, I acknowledge that SL did make a mistake. They told Mr Ys 
adviser, who told Mr Y, that his investments with them wouldnt be encashed once his 
adviser was removed as his agent. SL have acknowledged that this wasnt correct. And have 
paid Mr Y £200 compensation for their error. But I need to consider if the error led to the 
unwanted encashment of Mr Ys investments. If I consider that it did, Id then uphold this part of Mr Ys complaint.
SL received a number of requests from Mr Ys adviser to be removed from his account. 
These were dated 13 September 2018, 27 September 2018 and 10 October 2018. But the 
adviser was effectively removed as Mr Ys agent on 11 October 2018. 
From what I understand, on 11 October 2018, SL confirmed to Mr Ys adviser that the 
normal procedure was for them to disinvest the money after 10 days had passed. So Mr Ys 
adviser asked SL not to proceed with their removal as agents as they didnt want this to 
happen. But SL did remove Mr Ys adviser from his account. They were required to under 
the terms and conditions of the arrangement. And wrote to Mr Y the following day (12 
October 2018) to tell him what would happen to his investments. 
Mr Ys adviser said that SL told them on 2 November 2018 that Mr Ys investments wouldnt 
be sold after theyd been removed as his agent. Instead, they would just be taken out of the 
model. But this wasnt correct. The account had in fact already been sold to cash, in line with 
the terms and conditions.
Its clear that SL made a mistake when they told Mr Ys adviser that his investments wouldnt 
be encashed. But Im satisfied that mistake didnt directly lead to the financial loss Mr Y said 
hes suffered. I say this because as soon as SL removed Mr Ys agent from his account, they 
were required to encash his investments. Mr Ys agent shouldve been removed from his 
account with effect from 5 September 2018. But wasnt removed until 11 October 2018. So 
Mr Y had an extended period of time to get a new financial adviser. SL notified Mr Y of their 
intention to encash his account on 12 October 2018, using a method of communication that 
was permitted under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
I acknowledge that Mr Y didnt receive any of the emails SL sent him in October 2018. Nor 
did he access the contract notes that had been added to his online account. But it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to hold SL responsible for that. I say this because Ive seen no 
evidence that SL couldve or shouldve known they held an inaccessible email address for 
Mr Y on their records. They sent Mr Y advance warning that they would have to sell his 
investments and therefore gave him the opportunity to take action to prevent this if he 
wanted. The emails they sent didnt bounce back. And Mr Y hadnt told them not to use that 
address. 
I know Mr Y holds SL responsible for not calling him, or writing to his postal address, before 
encashing his investments. He said that SL didn't even send him statements after the 
encashment. And that he only realised what had happened after seeing a statement for his 
ISA account in January 2018. He said his new financial adviser told him that his SIPP had 
also been encashed. But from what Ive seen, SL had no reason to follow up after they sent 
their emails. They didnt know Mr Y hadnt received them. And they made the contract notes 
related to the encashments available to Mr Y through the online portal they thought he had 
access to. 
Mr Y may well disagree with my conclusion here. I acknowledge that he might take the view 
that if either SL or his adviser had ensured that he knew his investments would be 
encashed, he wouldve taken mitigating action to prevent this. But Im not persuaded by this 
argument. I say this because, from what Ive seen, Mr Y didnt reinvest his cash until 
November 2019, 10 months after he first realised what had happened. He could have taken 
steps to have the cash reinvested after two months. But Ive no evidence that Mr Y tried to 
take mitigating steps to reinvest earlier. Therefore Im not persuaded that SLs error led to a 
financial loss for Mr Y. 
I also consider that Mr Y is a relatively knowledgeable investor. While I acknowledge that he relied to some extent on his financial adviser, he disagreed with the direction that business 
was taking. This was one of the reasons that his adviser decided to stop working with him. 
Mr Ys adviser had confirmed that he had access to SLs online platform. And Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr Y ever complained to either his adviser, or to SL, that he could no longer 
access information about his investments online. So I consider that it would be reasonable to 
assume that Mr Y could still access information that SL added to his online account. If hed 
been able to do that, he would have received the notification email SL sent him in October 
2018. And he wouldve been able to take steps to prevent the encashments of his 
investments. 
Looking at the compensation SL has paid Mr Y in respect of the incorrect information they 
gave his adviser, which was passed on to him, I consider that £200 is fair and reasonable 
under the circumstances of the complaint. 
Im sorry Mr Y considers that hes suffered a loss. I dont know if hes suffered a loss or not, 
as I dont know how the value of his investments if hed reinvested as soon as he found out 
about the unwanted encashment wouldve have compared with the value if theyd never 
been disinvested. Ive considered whether SL should take further steps to correct their 
mistake. And Ive concluded that they took reasonable steps to put things right. Therefore I 
wont be asking them to take any further action. And I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman