DRN-4195413
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) converted the basis of his mortgage from 
interest only to repayment; that it has increased the contractual monthly payment (CMP); 
and that he is not receiving the benefit of his Offset facility.
What happened
Mr B took out an offset mortgage with Lloyds in 2008 over 20 years. He had four current 
accounts linked to it, meaning that the credit balances would be used to reduce the amount 
of interest charged to his mortgage balance. 
Lloyds say the way it works is that Mr B didnt receive interest on the credit balances in the 
linked accounts, because interest was then not paid on the portion of his mortgage covered 
by the linked account balances.
Mr B made some large payments to his account but when his monthly payments didnt 
reduce he complained to Lloyds as he thought that there may be an error on their part. 
Lloyds investigated but said that his account had been managed in accordance with the 
terms and conditions and didnt accept it had made any errors or mistakes.
Mr B was unhappy with Lloyds final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr B didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal first with the Mr Bs complaint that our investigator hasnt addressed his 
complaint that it is difficult to move money around easily between his accounts, and that this 
is contrary to the agreement he had with Lloyds. This isnt a complaint Mr B has raised with 
Lloyds and as such Lloyds have not had the opportunity to respond to it. I am therefore 
unable to deal it, although I do note, and repeat, the comments our investigator made 
regarding the remit of this service. Its not our role to recommend how financial businesses 
should conduct or arrange their commercial operations and processes  thats for them to 
determine. We dont have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check they followed their rules and procedures 
and have applied them fairly.
Secondly I must also confirm that there are limitations to my role, in that I am unable to audit 
Mr Bs accounts. I take account of both sides views, consider the available evidence, and 
give an informal opinion on whether Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably. This reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to proceeding through the courts.
Mr Bs mortgage offer shows that his mortgage is on an interest only basis. His annual 
mortgage statement also confirms that. I can see no evidence which would show that without 
Mr Bs consent Lloyds unilaterally changed his mortgage to that of repayment rather than 
interest only. I can accept that Mr B may perceive or interpret it to be that way, but legally, 
from my reading of the documentation provided, it remains an interest only mortgage. 
In my view, I think Mr B has probably misunderstood how the offset mortgage works. The 
terms and conditions of the mortgage account provide that the CMP is calculated on the full 
balance of the mortgage and does not take into account the balances on any linked 
accounts. That is what he is contracted to pay every month, albeit it may change if the 
overall balance reduced. 
However, what is actually charged to Mr Bs mortgage account in interest each month, does 
take into account his linked account balances. This means if his CMP payment is higher than 
the interest added to the mortgage account, the amount of the CMP payment which exceeds 
that added monthly interest, is used to reduce the mortgage account balance. Lloyds have 
supplied an extract from the terms and conditions for the mortgage (paragraph 5.2) and I am 
satisfied this explanation is correct. 
As I have said I have not carried out an audit since that is beyond my remit, but from the 
account documentation provided by Lloyds, I cant agree that Lloyds have mismanaged Mr 
Bs account, and in fact they have operated it in accordance with the terms and conditions. 
The interest rate did of course increase when the Bank of England Base rate went up, which 
had an impact on the calculation of the CMP. I therefore do not agree that Mr B has not 
received the benefit of the offset facility as his overall balance has reduced.
So, although Mr B will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman