DRN-2709769
The complaint
Miss R complains that Fowlers Finance failed to pay off her previous finance when she 
entered into a new agreement. 
What happened
In January 2020 Miss R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Fowlers. Miss R part exchanged her old car as part of the transaction, and Fowlers 
agreed to settle the outstanding finance on her old car.
Miss R says that Fowlers has since sold her old car, but it hasnt cleared the outstanding 
finance. As a result, Miss R has had late payment markers recorded on her credit file.
Miss R complained to Fowlers but wasnt happy with the response, so she complained to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there was no dispute that the outstanding 
finance should have been settled by Fowlers and that although Fowlers said it was waiting 
for an up to date settlement figure, this had already been provided at the time of the 
transaction. The investigator said Fowlers should settle the finance and pay compensation to 
Miss R. 
Fowlers didnt response so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement dated January 2020. Ive also looked at an 
invoice which Miss R says was given to her by Fowlers, also dated January 2020. The 
invoice shows that Miss R part exchanged her old car and that as part of the transaction, 
there was an outstanding balance of £1,652.52 on the previous finance agreement.
This service asked Fowlers to comment on the invoice. It said there was no disagreement 
that it should settle the previous finance agreement but that it was waiting for an updated 
settlement figure.
Looking at the available information, its not clear why Fowlers are waiting for an up to date 
settlement figure. The settlement figure is clearly shown on the invoice. Fowlers havent 
provided a plausible explanation for why the outstanding finance hasnt been settled yet. 
Even if Fowlers thought the settlement figure might have changed, it couldve contacted the 
finance provider to obtain this information.  
Putting things right
Fowlers should take steps to settle the finance without further delay.  As a result of Fowlers 
failure to settle the outstanding finance, Miss Rs credit file has been impacted. Shes 
explained that shes made repeated attempts to try and resolve the matter but couldnt get a  
response from Fowlers, which caused her frustration and upset. 
Because of this, Im of the view that Fowlers should take steps to make sure that Miss Rs 
credit file is corrected. It should also pay compensation for trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Fowlers Finance Limited must: 
Settle the outstanding finance
Pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset
Contact the previous finance provider and ensure that any adverse information recorded on 
Miss Rs credit file is removed
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman