DRN-3571683
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with how A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP (ASG) carried out its obligations 
to maintain a boiler it supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In 2014, Mrs K entered into a regulated conditional sale agreement with ASG for the supply, 
installation and maintenance of a domestic boiler. The agreement was for 14 years and 
covered both the original cost of the boiler and the maintenance and servicing costs. The 
agreement was originally taken out by Mrs K and her husband, who sadly passed away. For 
simplicity, I will refer just to Mrs K throughout.
 
Mrs K told us she had problems with the boiler from the start. She said these included issues 
with the circuit board in 2015 and the expansion vessel, pressure relief valve, plate heat 
exchanger filling loop and pump motor the following year. Mrs K also said that in April 2020 
she had to pay for the plate heat exchanger to be replaced again.
 
Mrs K complained to ASG saying that it hadnt carried out a proper power flush of the central 
heating system when the boiler was installed. She said this was a breach of contract which 
had caused irreparable damage to the boiler. Mrs K demanded that ASG fit a new boiler.
 
ASG replied stating the boiler had been flushed when the boiler was fitted. It went on to say 
that the maintenance of the central heating system was Mrs Ks responsibility, not ASGs, 
and it wasnt liable for problems with the boiler caused by debris from that system. ASG 
gave Mrs K the cost of either buying out the remainder of her agreement or terminating it 
early and returning the boiler.
 
Mrs K wasnt happy with ASGs response to her complaint. So, she brought it to our service. 
During this time, Mrs K went abroad for an extended period. While she was away, the 
boilers annual service became due. When this wasnt carried out, ASG told Mrs K she was 
in breach of contract and it was no longer liable for the servicing part of the agreement. It 
also asked her to repay the remaining balance of her agreement in full. Mrs K then paid ASG 
£2,214 to buy the boiler and settle her agreement. She said she then replaced the boiler. 
Mrs K told us she wanted a refund of the amount shed paid to end her agreement.
 
One of our investigators looked into this matter. Briefly, she didnt think the issues Mrs K had 
with the boiler justified her being able to end the agreement early without charge. But our 
investigator also thought the terms and conditions of the agreement didnt allow ASG to 
charge Mrs K a non-warranty call out fee when the plate heat exchanger was replaced in 
2020, so this should be refunded.
 
ASG said it accepted our investigators view as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs K didnt agree with 
our investigator. In summary, she said she had to pay £2,214 to end the agreement as the 
boiler was beyond repair, and this was due to ASGs failure to carry out a basic power flush 
when the boiler was fitted.
 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why. First, Im aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is at 
the heart of the matter here: should ASG refund the cost of settling the agreement early to 
Mrs K?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
 
I can see that ASG serviced the boiler each year from 2015 to 2020 inclusive. I can also see 
that while Mrs K reported various issues during the first few years, these were sorted out in 
line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. So, I dont think ASG acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in relation to these issues.
 
Mrs Ks position is that the boiler wouldnt have needed replacing if ASG had carried out a 
power flush when the boiler was fitted. In turn, this means she wouldnt have had to pay 
£2,214 to end the agreement early. I dont accept this. Ive looked at the flushing certificate 
that was completed when the boiler was fitted. This shows that a manual flush with both a 
cleaner and inhibitor was carried out at that time. So, while this wasnt a power flush, it was a 
flush, and an anti-corrosion inhibitor was used.
 
I can also see from ASGs records that Mrs K had another flush carried out some five years 
later in September 2019. This was a power flush, and again a cleaner and inhibitor were 
used. But by April 2020, Mrs K was still having problems with debris from her central heating 
system entering the boilers plate heat exchanger. So, Im satisfied this later flush didnt stop 
the issues she was having. In turn, as this flush didnt stop the problem, Im not satisfied 
ASGs failure to carry out a power flush in 2014 meant the boiler needed replacing. So, 
theres no basis for me to direct ASG to refund the £2,214 Mrs K paid to end the agreement 
early.
 
Ill now turn to the non-warranty call out in 2020. I can see Mrs K reported an issue with the 
boiler in April 2020. ASGs records show an engineer visited the next month and replaced 
the plate heat exchanger as it was blocked with debris from Mrs Ks central heating system. 
ASG told us this was classed as a non-warranty call out and Mrs K paid £232.80 for this.
 
Ive looked at Mrs Ks agreement with ASG. Having done so, Im not satisfied theres any 
contractual basis for ASG to charge either for a non-warranty call out or to replace the plate 
heat exchanger. I can see why it may want to charge for these. But if thats the case, there 
was nothing stopping ASG from detailing this when the contracts were drawn up. But it 
didnt. Instead, Mrs K contracted with ASG on the terms set out in the agreement.
 
Whether ASG intended to include a charge for non-warranty call outs in the agreement, it 
didnt do so. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for it to attempt to introduce a new 
clause into the contract to cover this. In any event, ASG has agreed to refund this amount to 
Mrs K. We would typically also award 8% annual simple interest on these types of refunds.
 When the investigator asked ASG, on my behalf, if it would agree to pay this,  it said it didnt 
believe its fair for interest to be awarded as its accruing each day and it will have to pay 
more unnecessarily when its already agreed to the refund. I dont agree.
 
Mrs K should never have been charged the non-warranty call out fee in the first place. Shes 
been without this money since June 2020. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for her to be 
compensated for this loss. I accept ASG has agreed to give Mrs K a refund. But as a 
business authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), its subject to the complaint 
handling rules set out in the FCAs handbook. Im also satisfied that once Mrs K made her 
complaint, its fair and reasonable for her to be able to pursue it as far as those rules allow.
Putting things right
In summary, for the reasons set out above, ASG should refund £232.80 to Mrs K. It should 
add 8% annual simple interest to this amount, calculated from the date the payment was 
made to the date of the refund. If ASG thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the simple interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP should now 
compensate Mrs K as set out above. 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this 
complaint. This means we are unable to consider the merits of it any further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman