DRN-3829618
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance trading as More Th>n (RSA) made an 
unfair claim decision on her home insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs S contacted RSA in February to notify it of water entering her property from one of the 
upstairs bedrooms as a result of storm damage. She believed this was coming from the roof 
with water dripping from the ceiling. She said this has also caused damaged to other areas 
of the property with water damage to the kitchen too.
RSA instructed its loss adjuster to assess the damage and sent its home emergency 
contractor to make any temporary repairs that were needed to make the kitchen safe. Once 
its loss adjuster attended, RSA declined the claim.
RSA said its loss adjuster didnt identify any water entering the property through the ceiling 
and it felt the main cause of the ingress was the result of existing damage to the windowsill. 
It said the window frames were rotten and daylight could be seen through holes within these. 
This was allowing water into the property and was the cause of the damage. It didnt 
highlight any concerns with the flat roof on the property but thought there was signs of 
existing damage to the ceiling with bowing noted in the report.
Unhappy with the response to her claim, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said that he felt RSA had made a fair claim 
decision. He thought there was signs of a storm at the time the claim was raised but he 
didnt think the damage claimed for was consistent with a storm or that it was most likely 
caused by these conditions. Instead he felt it highlighted underlying issues with the general 
condition of the property and wear and tear that had been caused gradually overtime. 
Mrs S disagreed with the outcome. She said the report provided by RSA and what our 
investigator had considered had missed the point or cause of the damage. She disagreed 
water was entering the property through the windowsill but said it was the roof in the 
bedroom where this was entering. She said this was caused by the storm as it had been 
repaired previously in recent years and she felt it was fair that RSA repair the damage 
caused by the storm now.
Our investigator asked for evidence of the roof repair but this hasnt been able to be 
provided. In the absence of this, he said he wasnt persuaded that the damage to the 
property was the result of storm damage. And because of this, he maintained that RSA 
acted fairly when considering the claim.
Because Mrs S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing to Mrs S, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
This service has an established approach for considering storm damage and our investigator 
set out this and the questions we ask within his view. Wed likely say a business needs to do 
more if the answer to the following three questions is yes:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to any is no, its likely the business has acted fairly.
It isnt disputed that at the time of the claim there was storm conditions. So it is the answer to 
questions 2&3 which determines whether it would be fair to ask RSA to do anything else with 
this claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
There is a detailed assessment of the damage to the property provided by RSAs loss 
adjuster. Our investigator shared a lot of information from this report in his view and I dont 
think I need to set it all out again for Mrs S or RSA. But the report highlighted two areas of 
concern, the damage to the ceiling in the bedroom, referring to this as pre-existing and not a 
one-off event. And the damage to the windowsill, detailing that this has rotted to the point of 
a visible hole that can be seen to the plasterboard. There is also a large number of photos 
provided, including images of the flat roof. 
Mrs S has said the water was entering her property through the ceiling in the bedroom and it 
was coming through at quite a rate. But Im not persuaded the evidence provided supports 
this, nor does it support that the damage to the property is consistent with storm damage. 
The loss adjuster said they believe the roof is not the problem and I think if water was 
entering from here, it would have been noted during the inspection. I say this as the 
evidence of water sitting on the roof in different puddles shows there was recent rainfall even 
after the claim date and Id have expected an issue with the roof to be highlighted during the 
survey.
The survey has also highlighted that the damage internally is not consistent with storm 
damage. Although consistent with the ingress of water, theyve said This is wear and tear 
issues (decayed timber) and this will not be covered under the terms of the policy.  Like 
most insurance policies, Mrs Ss doesnt provide cover for wear and tear and while it is likely 
the damage is the result of water ingress over a period of time, it is consistent with wear and 
tear and not storm damage. 
I appreciate Mrs S feels strongly that the survey and our investigator has missed that the 
roof is the cause of the water ingress and this was damaged by the storm. She has said the 
roof was repaired in recent years but is unable to demonstrate this or what repair was 
carried out. But she has provided little else beyond her testimony to demonstrate the 
damage here or that this is the result of storm damage. Photos she has provided broadly, 
show the same things highlighted in the survey report and Ive not seen anything which 
indicates this report shouldnt be relied on.In the absence of anything else, Im satisfied that RSA has made a fair claim decision when 
declining the claim. The information provided doesnt demonstrate that the damage caused 
is consistent with storm damage. Instead I think the storm has simply highlighted pre-existing 
issues with the property and its general state of wear and tear.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman