DRN-1747588
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the settlement offer U K Insurance Limited made on his car when it 
was written off. 
What happened
Mr Os car was written off following floods. UKI initially valued it at £34,000 but later 
increased its valuation to £38,350. Mr O thinks the valuation should be higher.
The investigator who looked at Mr Os complaint didnt uphold it. She thought UKIs offer was 
fair. Mr O disagrees and so his complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My starting point is Mr Os car insurance policy. This says UKI wont pay more than the 
market value of his car at the time of the loss (less any excess that applies). The policy goes 
on to say market value means the cost of replacing Mr Os car with another of the same 
make and model and a similar age and condition at the time of the loss.
I should say my role here isnt to place a value on Mr Os car. Instead, its to decide if UKIs 
settlement offer is within a fair and reasonable range. We think the fairest way for an insurer 
to decide the market value for a car is to look at the main motor industry guides (Glasss, 
CAP, Parkers and Cazana). We think these are persuasive, largely because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides dont have access to 
actual retail selling prices but use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely 
selling prices wouldve been.  But we also accept there are fluctuations in the valuations 
these guides give, because placing a value on a car isnt an exact science.
The UKI engineer who assessed Mr Os car says CAP didnt list a value on Mr Os model, 
while Parkers valued it at £30,830.  He says the original Glasss valuation was £34,410 but 
this included a reduction of £13,590 for the high mileage on Mr Os car. The engineer says 
he thought this reduction was excessive, so he sent a request to Glasss with the exact car 
details and queried the mileage deduction. He says Glasss came back with a value of 
£38,350. This is what UKI has subsequently offered Mr O in settlement of his claim.
Our investigator also got valuations from these guides (and she added in the extras Mr O 
says his car had (like metallic paint) where she could). The valuations she got were:
Parkers  £38,050  £40,075
Cazana  £33,442  £34,332
Glasss  £34,410 (but UKIs bespoke value was £38,350)
CAP  unknown due to Mr Os cars high mileage.
Mr O got his own valuation from Parkers. This gave a range of £40,075 (adjusted for the 
cars high mileage) and £42,100 (based on a lower mileage but with no fitted extras (which 
Mr O says his car had)). And Mr O also says the nearest and lowest cost potential 
replacement car hes found costs £44,700.
Mr O says the amount UKI has offered him isnt enough for him to buy an equivalent
car to the one he lost. And he says his understanding is that the purpose of insurance is he 
shouldnt be in a worse position in the event of an incident occurring that causes the 
insurance to be invoked. 
But the settlement figure of £38,350 that UKI has offered Mr O is within the range of 
valuations given by three of the main motor industry guides (and its at the higher  although 
not the top  end of that range). So, for the reasons Ive given, I think UKI has acted fairly 
and reasonably and in line with the terms of Mr Os car insurance policy in making the offer it 
has. 
I understand UKI has paid Mr O its settlement amount (minus his policy excess). It follows 
that I dont think UKI needs to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman