DRN-3485994
The complaint
Mr P complains about the manner in which ReAssure Limited have handled his personal 
pension policy (PPP) since it was transferred into its control. In particular, Mr P complains 
that ReAssure Limited refused to allow him to make single contributions into his plan which 
was contrary to the terms and conditions (T&C) of the policy.
What happened
Mr P had a PPP, a Legal & General (L&G) Self Employment Plan, into which he made 
regular pension contributions. This plan was due to mature in September 2020, so prior to 
this, in July 2020, Mr P wrote to L&G to ask if he was able to make single contributions into 
the plan once it had matured. L&G wrote back and confirmed this was possible, and 
informed Mr P of the ways in which this could be done.
Parts of L&Gs business were transferred over to ReAssure, and this included the handling 
of Mr Ps PPP.  The proposal had been underway for a few years before being finalised in 
the High Court with an effective legal transfer date of 7 September 2020. The agreement 
reached wouldve required due diligence, one aspect of which wouldve been to ensure no 
harm to customers. 
So following the transfer and his policy maturing, Mr P rang ReAssure on 23 November 2020 
to ask about how he could start paying single contributions. He was told verbally that this 
was possible, and ReAssure said it would send him the information he needed to set this up. 
He didnt get any information so called ReAssure again on 18 December 2020 and was 
again told the information would be sent to him.
ReAssure wrote to Mr P on 30 December 2020 saying that following a review of the policy 
T&C, it did not allow single premiums to be added to the policy.
On 5 January 2021 Mr P called ReAssure as hed not heard back. He was told the letter had 
been sent on 30 December, and the contents were read to him. Mr P told him that hed been 
informed in writing by L&G that single premiums were possible, and he made a formal 
complaint as the T&C of his plan allowed this.
On 1 March 2021 ReAssure wrote to Mr P apologising that it was unable to conclude its 
investigation into his complaint within the required eight-week timeframe, so Mr P referred 
his complaint to our Service. He said, in summary:
ReAssure should allow him to make one-off payments into his plan, and in refusing 
this ReAssure was changing the T&C of the plan.
His pension fund with ReAssure didnt match what was shown on the transfer 
document.
Hed not been sent the original T&C from L&G.
He thought he would lose a third of his pension if he transferred out.
On 21 March 2021 ReAssure sent Mr P its final response to his complaint. It explained that 
despite L&G stating in its letter of 31 July 2020 that he could contribute single premiums to 
his existing plan, this was not possible with ReAssure. It went on to explain that it would 
provide Mr P an additional ReAssure PPP into which he would be able to make regular or 
single contributions. It said it needed to conduct its business in this way to ensure any new 
business was written in terms consistent with current legislation and industry best practice.
The letter went on to apologise that this wasnt communicated more clearly in its previous 
letters, and this was a mistake and shouldnt have happened. It offered Mr P £200 
compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr P didnt agree with this outcome so asked our Investigator to consider what had 
happened. And having done so, our Investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. 
He thought, in summary:
The T&C of Mr Ps plan stipulated those one-off payments into his plan could only be 
made with ReAssures consent and were subject to any consequential terms and 
conditions imposed by ReAssure, and that these T&C hadnt changed from when his 
PPP had been held by L&C.
He was able to make one-off payments into a ReAssure top up plan which would run 
alongside his existing pension.
His fund hadnt been changed as a result of the transfer from L&G to ReAssure.
The value of his fund was dependent on the size of the final bonus payable, and this 
varied with market fluctuations. This was why the apparent value of his pension had 
significantly reduced in one statement.
The £200 compensation from ReAssure was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Our Investigator also sent Mr P details of the fund his pension was held in, and forwarded 
him a copy of the T&C applicable to his policy which hed been sent by ReAssure.
Mr P didnt accept our Investigators view. He thought, in summary:
The T&C relied upon by the Investigator didnt relate to his PPP. The copy hed been 
sent was for the L&G Personal Investment Pension Plan, which differed to his policy, 
The Self-Employed Plan. The investigator was looking at the wrong T&C and as such 
this could not be relied upon.
ReAssure, in saying that it would not allow payments to be made into his plan, were 
unfairly changing the T&C, and this was contrary to what was in the High Court Order 
of 2020.
Hed received a letter from ReAssure dated 10 June 2021 telling him that its New 
Business specialist team had confirmed single premiums can be made into this 
policy, and apologised for the conflicting information issued in the past, thereby 
reversing its unfair position and allowing single premium contributions.
ReAssure, in preventing him from making single premium contributions, had caused 
him financial harm and this needed to be considered.
Our Investigator should consider the comments hed made about the time, effort, 
stress and anxiety hed been caused, and the Investigators interpretation of the facts 
had added to this.Our Investigator wrote to ReAssure regarding the letter it had sent to Mr P on 10 June 2021, 
asking for clarification as to whether this meant Mr P was able to make contributions into his 
existing plan. ReAssure replied that because the information had come from the New 
Business team, this meant that any single premium payments would only be accepted by 
way of a new ReAssure top up plan.
Our Investigator considered this and everything that Mr P had said, and it didnt change his 
mind. He agreed that the T&C hed relied upon in his initial view werent the same as Mr Ps 
policy, but they were very similar, and single premium contributions still required the consent 
of ReAssure. And ReAssure had never stopped Mr P from making single premium 
contributions, just they required them to be made into a new top up plan. 
But Mr P didnt agree. He thought, in summary:
The Investigators acceptance of an obviously incorrect set of T&C for his policy was 
unfair.
ReAssure had prevented him making contributions into his plan.
Consent to make single contributions had been given by L&G. ReAssure was not 
able to reverse this consent under the terms of the High Court order.
Being forced to make his contributions into a new plan was not the same as making 
them into his existing plan. L&G had never stipulated that any further contributions 
would need to be made into a new plan, so under the terms of the transfer, it was 
wrong for ReAssure to require this.
The letter sent by ReAssure on 10 June 2021 clearly referred to his existing policy 
and told him that single premium payments could be made. 
Because of ReAssures position hed been unable to make any contributions or 
withdrawals from his pension, and hed had to transfer his pension to a new provider 
who would allow this to happen.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made a number of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence, and I have 
looked at it all. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to 
the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter, rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to 
Mr P, rather it reflects the informal nature of our Service, its remit and my role in it.
And having considered everything, I agree with the view reached by the Investigator, for 
broadly the same reasons. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, as the 
circumstances surrounding this complaint are clearly a matter of importance and principle to 
him. But whilst I agree that ReAssure have provided a confusing and poor service to Mr P, I 
dont think it needs to do anything more than it has done already. Ill explain.
Mr P had been a longstanding customer of L&G, who managed his personal pension. As he 
approached the date when his PPP was due to mature, I can see Mr P contacted L&G and 
received written confirmation that he would be able to make single premium contributions 
into his PPP once it had reached its maturity date.Once his plan had been transferred to ReAssure, I can see Mr P made a similar request to 
ReAssure in November 2020 and received verbal confirmation that single premium 
contributions would be possible. Now I dont know exactly what was said here, and I have 
only seen the notes made by the call handler, but I can certainly see that Mr P was left with 
the impression from this conversation that he would be able to make the contributions into 
his existing plan. 
Having not received the written confirmation and instructions as to how these contributions 
could be made, Mr P called ReAssure in early January 2021, which is when he was first told 
that he would be unable to make single contributions into his plan. Again, I cant say exactly 
what was said during this call, but from the call notes and Mr Ps recollection it seems the 
content of a letter sent by ReAssure on 30 December 2020 was read out. This letter, which I 
have seen, simply states the terms and conditions of his plan do not allow single 
contributions to be made. 
I can understand why Mr P was frustrated by this. Hed been given confirmation by L&G, 
prior to ReAssures take-over of the business, that hed be able to make single contributions. 
And now, only a few months later, he was being given contrary information by ReAssure, 
with no explanation. And I can see the lack of explanation is most likely to have exacerbated 
the frustration Mr P felt. Had Mr P been given a proper explanation at that point, or even 
some reassurance that the matter would be looked into, it may well have resolved the issue.  
But I cant see this happened, and Mr P had to make a complaint.
I can see ReAssure again wrote to Mr P on 10 February 2021 in answer to his request to 
make single contributions. But this letter again simply told him that it wasnt possible as this 
wasnt a permitted option on his policy. But ReAssure didnt offer any explanation or 
alternative solution. 
In its final response letter to Mr P on 21 March 2021, ReAssure confirmed that it wasnt 
possible for Mr P to make single contributions into his plan due to the new business matrix. 
It did however provide Mr P with an alternative solution, which was to make contributions 
into a new top-up policy which would run in parallel to his existing plan. It apologised that its 
communication hadnt been clearer in its previous letters, and paid him £200 compensation 
for his inconvenience.
Having looked at the T&C of his original L&G plan, I can see it makes reference to him being 
able to make single premium contributions into his plan. And I think having received written 
confirmation from L&G that it was possible, then to be told by ReAssure that this wasnt 
possible caused Mr P understandable frustration. For clarity, the relevant T&C (under the 
heading Premiums) state:
(a) 
(b)  the annuitant may, by giving written notice to Legal & General, elect to vary 
the amount of the Recurrent Premiums payable and/or to pay a Single Premium 
under this policy provided that:
(i) The amount of any Single Premium shall not be less that the minimum 
acceptable to Legal & General at the time
(ii) 
Exercise of this option is subject to the consent of Legal & General and to any 
consequential terms and conditions () which Legal & General may require to apply.
So, from the T&C above, it does appear that single premium contributions were allowed to 
be made into his policy, and as Ive said above, Mr P received written confirmation from L&G that this could be done. However, it should be noted that this particular term relates to plans 
which havent yet reached maturity, so were already set up to receive premiums until a set 
maturity date. So it isnt clear whether this term relates to plans which have reached 
maturity, and arent receiving contributions already.
But there is still confusion as to whether Mr P shouldve been able to make the contributions 
he wanted to, and this wasnt helped by the letter that ReAssure sent him on 10 June 2021. 
This said, amongst other things:
(6) After contacting the New Business specialist team, they have confirmed that 
single premiums can be made into this policy. We apologise for conflicting 
information issued in the past.
If you would like to make a single premium please contact us again, specifying the 
amount you wish to contribute
When our Investigator asked ReAssure for its comment on this letter, ReAssure said it 
understood this to mean Mr P was able to make contributions into the new top-up plan, and 
not the original plan. But I dont agree with this assessment. I cannot know for certain what 
the author of this letter meant, but on balance I think it more likely than not that the specialist 
team, having assessed Mr Ps existing plan, agreed that he was able to make single 
contributions into it. I think the wording used seems clear  the emphasis placed on the word 
can would suggest this was not what had been said before. And it says this policy. I can only 
take this to mean that having reassessed it, the specialist team thought single premium 
contributions could be made into his existing plan.
So this letter, and ReAssures explanation of it, only caused more confusion and frustration 
for Mr P. 
But, bearing in mind this Services remit, and my role in it, I dont consider I need to make a 
finding as to whether or not I think Mr P shouldve been able to make the contributions he 
wished to into his existing plan. I need to decide if I think ReAssure treated him fairly. And 
although I can see its customer service fell short, and this in itself caused problems, Im 
satisfied ultimately that it offered Mr P a viable alternative to making his contributions into his 
own plan. It offered to open a new top-up plan for him, and for this to run in parallel to his 
existing plan. And other than it not being his existing plan, which Mr P felt strongly about, I 
cant see that the new plan wouldve offered Mr P any lesser facilities or returns on his 
contributions.
So I dont agree that Mr P has lost out financially by not being able to make his contributions 
in the way he wished to. Although I think it likely that he wouldve made the contributions into 
his existing plan had he been able, he did have the option of investing into an equivalent 
plan set up for him by ReAssure, and he chose not to.
Mr P has emphasised how much stress and anxiety this matter has caused him, and I can 
see from his calls and letters to ReAssure that he was likely caused frustration, and this was 
exacerbated by the mixed and confusing responses he received. This Service can require 
businesses to pay compensation when we think they have caused consumers distress, 
inconvenience or financial loss. But such compensation payments are not a penalty or 
punishment for the business concerned  that is the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Instead, they are intended to be a fair and reasonable way to put the 
consumer into the position they should have been in if not for a business error.
Having considered everything that has happened, I think the £200 compensation that 
ReAssure has already paid Mr P is fair and reasonable, and broadly in line with our Services approach to compensation. I have considered whether any further compensation is due 
following the letter ReAssure sent in June 2021, but I dont think it is. I say this because I can 
see Mr P was already considering transferring his policy to another provider at this point, 
with whom he was able to make the contributions he wished. So other than adding weight to 
his already poor opinion of ReAssure, and bearing in mind he wasnt aware of ReAssures 
contrary explanation of the letter which was sent to our Service, I dont think it caused Mr P 
any additional distress or inconvenience. 
My final decision
As a result of all the above, I do not require ReAssure Limited to do anything more in relation 
to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman