DRN-3019017
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled her motor 
insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Miss Ms been helped by her Dad. But for ease of reading I'll refer 
to his comments as being Miss Ms.
Reference to Ageas includes its agents.
What happened
Miss M bought a telematics (black box) motor insurance policy branded in the name of a 
well-known motoring organisation. The policy is administered by an insurance intermediary 
but is underwritten by Ageas. So, as Ageas would ultimately remain responsible for the 
policy cancellation I will refer to it throughout this decision, although the actions I refer to 
were taken by the policy administrator.  
Ageas wrote to Miss M to tell her it intended to cancel her policy in seven days. This was 
because it said Miss M had exceeded the speed limit and had committed what her policy 
calls a black event, which entitles it to cancel the policy in seven days. Miss M disputed 
that shed been speeding at the time in question.
Miss M brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Ageas had done anything wrong. Miss M didn't agree so her complaint's been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Miss Ms policy sets out what is a black event that will trigger a policy cancellation. And that 
includes driving at 85 mph or more in a 60 mph speed limit. Ageas said that Miss Ms black 
box had recorded her travelling at speeds of up to 95 mph on a 60 mph speed limit road.  
Miss M believes that the black box in her car must have developed a fault, as she says that 
she wasn't travelling at the speeds the black box recorded. But Ageas has shown us the 
black box data relevant to this event. That shows the car accelerating (to speeds that would 
trigger the black events), the direction of travel, the GPS coordinates and the number of 
satellites capturing the data over a period spanning two minutes. Further, Ageas asked its 
technical support team to check and verify the data. The technical team was satisfied that 
the data was accurate. 
Miss Ms pointed us to some other data which showed that the car hadn't travelled any miles 
in a specific period when Miss M said she was using the car, so she thinks that 
demonstrates that the black box was faulty. Ageas told us that the data Miss M is referring to 
was only in reference to the cars health check. And, owing to the passage of time, it no 
longer holds the source data so can't examine it. But it said that information from the cars 
health check didn't influence the driving behaviour score. So, I dont think its likely that any 
anomaly with the car health check data could have affected the speed the satellites recorded 
the car driving at during the black event.
I'm aware Miss M feels that we cant fairly come to any decision without visiting the road 
Ageas said the speeding event happened on. But I'm satisfied that Ageas has taken 
reasonable steps to verify its data and found it to be accurate. And in those circumstances 
I think it cancelled Miss Ms policy fairly. So I don't need to visit the road in question to arrive 
at that decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman