DRN-3357829
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy Society of Lloyd's trading as Lloyd's of London (Lloyds) havent assessed 
her unemployment claim. 
What happened
Ms K took out an unemployment only insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds in October 
2019. The policy was sold via a broker and provided a monthly benefit in the event Ms K was 
made unemployed due to circumstances beyond her control.
At the time of sale Ms K was off work on sick leave. And she continued to stay on long term 
sick leave until 31 March 2021, when her position was made redundant following a 
restructuring at work. 
As shed been made redundant, Ms K contacted Lloyds to make an unemployment claim on 
her policy. Lloyds said Ms K wasnt eligible to claim on the policy because shed been absent 
from work when the policy was taken out. They said the policy would never have been set up 
if theyd known Ms K was on sick leave at the time of sale. So Lloyds declined to cover on 
Ms Ks claim on that basis. 
Ms K had informed the broker during the sale that she was on sick leave, but the broker had 
answered this question incorrectly during the application. This fact isnt in dispute and the 
broker has accepted liability for this error. A complaint has been raised to the broker that is 
being dealt with separately. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened with Lloyds and their decision to not 
consider the claim. Based on the policy terms, he thought Ms K did satisfy the eligibility 
criteria.  So he didnt think Lloyds decision to refuse to consider her claim was fair. He 
recommended Lloyds should consider the claim, and if the claim is successful, then Lloyds 
should add 8% simple interest to the claim figure from the point the claim was made until the 
date of settlement. 
Lloyds didnt agree. In summary they said they hadnt based their decision on the policy 
terms, but rather that the sale should never have gone ahead in the first place
So it has now been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Lloyds said they dont believe they should be liable for the payment of this claim when the 
error was made by the broker, so if anyone should pay this claim it should be the broker. 
However, thats not the issue were investigating here. This complaint has been made in 
relation to Lloyds decision to refuse to consider Ms Ks claim. My role is to decide if that 
refusal was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
The policy terms say:
Are you eligible for cover?
On the policy start date you:
Must have been continuously employed for at least 6 months prior to the policy start 
date
Must be working at least 16 hours per week. 
The following policy definitions are relevant: 
Employed: You are contracted to work for at least 16 hours a week on a permanent
basis, or you are a contract worker, in exchange for a salary or wage from which your
employer is deducting P.A.Y.E tax and National Insurance Contributions at the
appropriate rate applicable to employees, on your behalf. Your employer must be
declaring any such deductions to the relevant tax authorities in the UK.
Working: You are in permanent employment or are self-employed or a company
director. This includes if you are on maternity, paternity or adoption leave as agreed
with your employer as long as you are still classed as being their employee for that
period of time.
Lloyds said they based their decision on the fact the policy shouldnt have been sold, rather 
than the eligibility terms listed in the policy. But I think that is unreasonable as the policy 
document specifically sets out the criteria needed to be eligible for cover. So, this is what 
should be taken account of when deciding if Ms K is able to make a claim. 
At the time the policy was arranged Ms K had been in employed at her work for more than 
six months. She was contracted to work in excess of 16 hours per week. And she was 
receiving a wage at the time of sale (in line with her employers sickness policy) through the 
PAYE system. So I think she satisfies the definition of employed. 
The definition of working set out within the policy literature requires a member to be in 
permanent employment  which Ms K was. So I think she also satisfies the definition of 
working at the time the policy was taken out. 
I think its also important to note, I havent seen anything in the policy literature at all relating 
to sickness absence.
Lloyds have said the sale of the policy would have been declined if theyd known Ms K was 
on sick leave. They argue the system would have blocked the policy going on cover. 
However, despite our requests, they have been unable to evidence this.
Taking all the above into account, I think Lloyds have been unreasonable in refusing to 
consider this claim. I havent seen anything in the eligibility criteria that supports Ms K isnt 
able to claim because she was absent from work when the policy was taken out. And Lloyds 
have been unable to demonstrate the policy wouldnt have gone on cover. Putting things right
Lloyds needs to put things right by:
Considering Ms Ks claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
and
if the claim is successful, add 8% simple interest to the claim figure from the point the 
claim was made until the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds to assess Ms Ks claim for unemployment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman