DRN-4149498
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the way AXA Insurance Plc (AXA) handled their claim on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 13 June 2022 for them and 
their two children. The policy covered their trip from 3 August 2022 to 19 August 2022 and 
was underwritten by AXA. Their trip involved travelling to different destinations within the 
same country.
While on their trip, on 8 August 2022, their young daughter was bitten by a stray cat. Mr K 
contacted AXA who confirmed that their daughter should get her first dose of the rabies 
vaccine at a government hospital as only they would be able to provide this rather than a 
private hospital. So, they visited the government hospital, and the first vaccination dose was 
provided. They experienced a big language barrier and lack of understanding and care at 
this hospital. 
On 10 August 2022, Mr and Mrs K received a call from AXA and there was a 
misunderstanding on the advisors part that Mr and Mrs K and their family were due to return 
to the UK on that same day. However, Mr K had already explained to the previous advisor 
that they were due to fly to another destination within the same country and not return home 
until 19 August 2022. Mr K explained what had happened again and said they would like to 
return home early because they were worried about the health and safety of their daughter. 
He explained their daughter had already had one vaccination in the government hospital and 
their experience had been concerning. He said the rest were due on 12 August, 16 August, 
and 23 August - the last one would be in the UK as they will have returned by this point. The 
advisor said someone would get in touch with them. 
On 10 August 2022, the advisor asked its in-house doctor for advice whether it would be 
medically necessary for Mr and Mrs K and their family to curtail their trip. The doctor advised 
it wouldnt be medically necessary. He also said the vaccinations proposed were appropriate 
based on what happened, and no further action was required. 
Mr K sent details requested by AXA by email on 11 August 2022.
No further communication was received from AXA until 15 August which confirmed receipt of 
documents sent by Mr K to it and asked how their daughter was and asked for a medical 
report and if their daughter had taken the vaccination.
On 18 August, Mr K received another email asking how their daughter was and if she had 
received the prescribed vaccinations.
Mr K hadnt replied to either of the emails AXA sent to him on 15 August or 18 August. 
On 19 August, Mr and Mrs K and their family returned to the UK as planned.
They made a complaint to AXA on their return. AXA responded and apologised for the poor 
service they had received and the lack of communication. It offered Mr and Mrs K £200 in 
recognition of this.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and agreed that AXAs service was poor, but she concluded that 
£200 was fair compensation for what had happened and how theyd been treated. 
Mr and Mrs K disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. In 
summary, they say:
Their holiday was ruined. They were waiting in anticipation of AXA informing them 
whether a flight home could be arranged. But they received no such communication. 
Had AXA informed them that it couldnt arrange a flight home, they would have done 
so themselves at their own cost as the health and safety of their daughter was more 
important to them.
The situation was stressful and unsafe for them and could have been avoided had 
AXA communicated better with them.
They would have been better off without the travel policy as the entire situation has 
caused them stress and worry for their daughters health but also because of the lack 
of service provided by AXA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with how AXA dealt with their claim. Although it offered £200 
compensation for the overall service it provided, Mr and Mrs K believe this isnt sufficient 
based on what happened. 
So, the key issue I need to decide is whether the level of compensation AXA has offered is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of what happened. 
I want to be clear that while Mr and Mrs K experienced a language barrier and a complete 
lack of care at the government hospital where their daughter had her first dose of the 
vaccination, this isnt an issue that I can look at within my role. So, I wont be commenting on 
the experience they had at this hospital or the service it provided.
Additionally, Im not a medical professional and I therefore will only be looking at whether 
AXA dealt with Mr and Mrs K fairly and reasonably. I wont be commenting on the 
vaccination itself or whether any other type of treatment would have been more valid. 
Ive carefully considered all of the information provided, which includes listening to all of the 
telephone calls AXA had at the time with Mr K. Mr K did the right thing by calling AXA to inform it of what happened. He was clearly worried 
about the effect of the bite to his young daughter and asked AXA if they could return home 
earlier than theyd planned. AXA said it would get back to him. I cant see that AXA gave him 
an answer on this at all. 
AXA did make some enquiries about the vaccination, and I understand there was some 
confusion as to when Mr and Mrs K and their family were returning to the UK. But again, this 
was clarified to AXA in another call by Mr K. 
Following the initial calls, I can see AXA sent two emails to Mr K asking how their daughter 
was and confirmed receipt of the documents sent by Mr K. Neither of these emails confirmed 
what the doctor had advised on 10 August to the advisor. And I cant see that any further 
telephone calls took place between AXA and Mr K since 10 August 2022. The next 
telephone call was on 19 August from Mr K to AXA to make a complaint about how their 
claim had been handled. 
Having looked at what happened, I agree that the service AXA provided could have been 
better. There was some confusion initially about when Mr and Mrs K would be returning to 
the UK. That was clarified early on by Mr K to AXA. The main issue here is that AXA didnt 
let Mr K know what the doctor had said and following the call it had with Mr K on 
10 August 2022, there were two general emails sent to him but again no communication 
about whether they could return home earlier than planned. 
At the same time, after Mr K sent AXA the information it asked for on 11 August 2022 by 
email, he made no further contact with AXA to chase for a response about returning home 
earlier. I cant see that he replied to the emails of 15 August or 18 August. I appreciate these 
emails were sent to him nearer the time that they were due to return home. But 
nevertheless, he didnt respond. 
With the above actions that took place (or didnt take place) in mind, I agree with the 
investigator that £200 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this 
because while I dont doubt the service AXA provided could have been better  especially as 
it involved a young childs health and well-being, there was also a lack of communication 
following the email sent to AXA on 11 August by Mr K. I dont think AXA took into account 
the concerns Mr K had communicated to it and it didnt let Mr K know what the doctor had 
said.
I do acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ks comments that they were concerned for the health and 
safety of their daughter, and they were worried about this during their trip. They say they 
were waiting for AXA to contact them, and it was its responsibility to do so. I dont dispute 
this. Equally though, I would also have expected Mr and Mrs K to prompt a reply from AXA 
about returning home early had they been so concerned about their daughter. They didnt 
reply to either of AXAs emails. Mr and Mrs K say they would have returned home early had 
they known AXA wouldnt agree to doing this. However, again, had they been so concerned 
about their daughter and the impact of the bite, I would have expected them to make 
immediate arrangements and chase AXA for a response. I cant see that this happened. 
I understand Mr and Mrs will be disappointed and I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K and their 
family experienced a stressful and worrying time on their trip. Overall, however, I do agree 
the service provided by AXA could have been better and based on everything that 
happened, I think £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for this. If Mr and Mrs K wish to 
accept this, they should contact AXA directly for the payment to be made to them, if it hasnt 
already done so. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about 
AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman