DRN-3373571
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the works carried out by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) as 
part of a home insurance claim.
Mr P is represented in this case but, for ease, I will only refer to Mr P.
What happened
Mr P contacted Ageas to make a claim when his water company told him he was likely to 
have a water leak. Trace and access was carried out and water damage was also found. 
Ageas repaired the damage. However, Mr P then complained because there were a number 
of issues, including that the underfloor heating wasnt working in places.
When Ageas replied to the complaint, it accepted there had been 14 months of delays in 
repairing the underfloor heating, along with other snagging issues and that there had been 
delays in following up on problems. It said it wanted to offer compensation but wanted to 
consider the amount payable, so didnt provide a figure for the amount it thought it should 
pay in compensation.
Mr P complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said there were 
a number of avoidable delays and that issues kept reoccurring. While the complaint was with 
this service, our investigator asked Ageas how much it intended to offer Mr P as 
compensation. Ageas said a figure in the region of £500. Our investigator said £1,500 would 
be a more appropriate amount, including because of Mr Ps health issues and how long it 
took to try and resolve the problems with the works carried out to the property. She also said 
Ageas should pay for the underfloor heating and thermostat to be fixed, as well as chipped 
tiles, damaged drawers and the washing machine popping out, based on three quotes 
provided by Mr P.
As Ageas didnt reply, the complaint was referred to me. Ageas then reviewed our 
investigators view and said it would pay a total of £1,500 as a final settlement. Our 
investigator asked Mr P if he wanted to accept Ageass offer, but Mr P was unsure whether 
this was a fair amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ageas should have carried out a lasting and effective repair and restored Mr P to the 
position he was in immediately before the claim. However, when repairs were carried out to 
the floor, the underfloor heating didnt seem to be fitted in the same way as before the claim 
and it also kept stopping working, despite Ageas attempting repairs on it. This had been 
ongoing for 14 months at the time of the complaint and I understand it still remains an issue.
Mr P lost confidence in Ageass ability to properly fix the floor. There also seemed to be 
outstanding issues with chipped tiles needing to be replaced and some grouting to complete, 
drawers falling apart and the washing machine popping out of a unit. Mr P has said he would 
now prefer to repair these issues himself. In the circumstances, I think that is reasonable. 
So, I think Ageas should pay Mr Ps costs for arranging to carry out these repairs himself. 
This should be based on three quotes obtained by Mr P and Ageas should pay Mr P a cash 
settlement based on the middle quote. If different companies have to carry out some of the 
works, the same principle applies.
Ive also thought about compensation. I think the issues with the floor and other items 
caused Mr P upset and inconvenience. When he raised the issues with Ageas, repairs were 
unsuccessful or remained outstanding. Ageas accepted it had provided poor service, but this 
still didnt lead to Mr Ps issues being resolved. So, I think this will have added to Mr Ps 
distress. 
Im also aware that Mr P had an ongoing health condition that limited his movement. While 
the issues remained outstanding, Mr Ps health deteriorated so he had to live downstairs. Mr 
P said he was reliant on the underfloor heating to keep him warm while living downstairs and 
that the lack of warmth made him uncomfortable. Due to Mr Ps circumstances, I think the 
lack of underfloor heating will have had a particular impact on him and will have affected his 
daily life over a sustained period of time. The delays also covered more than one winter, so 
the lack of reliable heating will have been particularly noticeable at those times. 
Ageas was also aware of Mr Ps health condition when it received the complaint. Because of 
the particular impact on Mr P and his potential vulnerability, Ageas tried to escalate it 
internally to get the issues fixed. However, this still didnt lead to the issues being resolved or 
Mr P receiving any compensation. I think Ageass seeming inability to resolve the issues will 
also have added to, and prolonged, Mr Ps suffering.
So, thinking about everything that happened and the impact on Mr P, I think Ageas should 
pay Mr P a total of £1,500 compensation because of the distress and upset caused to him.
Putting things right
Based on a quote provided by Mr P, Ageas should pay to repair the underfloor heating, 
thermostats, chipped tiles, grout and drawers and stop the washing machine popping out. It 
should also pay Mr P £1,500 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay the middle of three quotes obtained by Mr P to:
oRepair the underfloor heating
oRepair or replace the thermostats for the underfloor heating if these still havent 
been fitted properly
oReplace the chipped tiles and complete the grouting
oRepair any drawers that are falling apart that were fitted as part of the claim
oStop the washing machine from popping out of the unit.
Pay Mr P a total of £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman