DRN-1930289
 
The complaint
Mr M says Ferratum UK Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four high-cost short-term credit loans Ferratum provided to Mr M 
between March and August 2019. The first loan was repayable in three monthly instalments, 
the following three were repayable in one instalment. This is a summary of Mr Ms lending 
history from Ferratum. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£Monthly repayment, £
1 07/03/2019 21/05/2019 400 203
2 21/05/2019 27/06/2019 300 389
3 02/07/2019 08/07/2019 300 355
4 06/08/2019 27/08/2019 300 350
In its final response letter Ferratum made Mr M an offer as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M 
rejected it and brought his complaint to this service. Ferratum has since withdrawn the offer. 
The adjudicator didnt think Ferratum was wrong to give Mr M any of the loans. Mr M 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. 
Ferratum has explained the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend. It asked for Mr Ms 
income and expenditure. And it carried out a credit check for each loan. It says these checks 
showed each loan to be affordable for Mr M. 
Mr M argues the checks were inadequate. But I think Ferratum completed proportionate 
checks before giving Mr M loans 1 to 3. And I dont think there was anything in the 
information it gathered, that it has shared, that should have led it to make a different lending 
decision. 
At the time he applied he told Ferratum that his monthly income was £4251, and his monthly 
expenditure was £2000. When he brought his complaint to us, via his representative, he said 
that his income at the time was £4000 and his monthly expenditure was £2930. So whilst it 
may have been that the monthly costs were understated, given the early stage of the lending 
relationship and the size of his monthly repayments relative to his income, I dont think that it 
would have been proportionate for Ferratum to independently verify what Mr M had 
declared. And having considered Mr Ms stated disposable income and the repayments he 
was committing to, I dont think Ferratum was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr M. 
By loan 4 I think that Ferratum should have checked if Mr M had any other short-term 
financial commitments. I note that Ferratum obtained information on the number of other 
active short term loans Mr M held from its credit checks, but it has provided the results for 
just two of his loans (one lists one active short term loan, one shows none) so I cant be sure 
it checked his other short term financial commitments when he applied for loan 4.
 
Mr M has said he was repaying a number of other short-term loans around this time. We 
asked Mr M for copies of his bank statements and full credit file to see what Ferratum might 
have seen had it completed better checks, but he didnt provide this information. So from the available evidence, I cant fairly conclude that better checks would have led 
Ferratum to decide not to lend to Mr M. 
And I cant see there was anything in the pattern of lending that should, by loan 4, have 
suggested to Ferratum that Mr Ms borrowing was unsustainable. The time between loans 
was increasing and he wasnt asking for more money - loan 4 was for less than loan 1.  
It follows I dont think Ferratum was wrong to give loan 4, in addition to loans 1 to 3, to Mr M.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman