DRN-1957896
The complaint
Mr and Ms D complain that TSB Bank plc has asked them to repay the balance of their 
mortgage when it had previously told them that their mortgage had been repaid and released 
the charge on their property.
What happened
Mr and Ms D took out an interest only mortgage in May 1994 (Mortgage A) for around 
£56,000 for a term of 25 years. The mortgage was due to mature in May 2019.
In February 2000, Mr and Ms D took out further borrowing of £5,000 on a repayment basis 
for a term of 19 years (sub-account 1), which was due to expire in February 2019. And in 
2003 they took out a further loan for around £19,000 (sub-account 2) also on a repayment 
basis and over a 15 year term. Sub-account 2 was due to expire in November 2018. These 
sub-accounts were set up under a different mortgage number, which I will refer to as 
Mortgage B.
In October 2003 Mr and Ms D paid off sub account 1 of Mortgage B. And in October 2018 
sub account 2 was also cleared. 
Mr and Ms D received a number of letters from TSB in October 2018 confirming that they 
had made the final payment to their mortgage and confirming that TSB would let the Land 
Registry know. 
TSB wrote to Mr and Ms D in November 2018 and March 2019 to let them know that their 
interest only mortgage was due to mature in May 2019. 
Mr D complained to TSB in April 2019. He said that he had received correspondence from 
TSB in October 2018 confirming that the mortgage account was closed, and he had office 
copy entries from HM Land Registry verifying that there was no outstanding charge against 
his property. So he said that the more recent correspondence asking for repayment of the 
mortgage couldnt be correct, and he asked for a full explanation. And he said that he had 
made use of the money set aside to repay Mortgage A.
Mr D also asked TSB to waive the daily interest charge while he waited for a response and 
took legal advice. 
TSB responded to the complaint. It said, in summary, that it agreed that the correspondence 
sent to Mr and Ms D was misleading and it apologised for the confusion caused. It also paid 
Mr and Ms D £100 compensation.
Mr and Ms D werent happy with the response they received. And they complained again to 
TSB. They said in particular that theyd received correspondence from a third party which 
said it wished to help them re-establish contact with TSB when they hadnt lost contact, it 
was TSB that had failed to respond to them.
TSB re-considered their complaint and issued a second final response letter which it said 
superseded its previous letter. It said, in summary:
When Mr and Ms D took out further lending in February 2000 the process was for a 
new mortgage account to be opened with a new account number.
The letters sent in October 2018 had wrongly referred to the charge being removed 
from the Land Registry because they were standard letters. The fact that Mr and Ms 
D had a remaining balance on their other mortgage account had not been noticed 
due to human error.
When Mr D had called on 29 October 2018 the agent had confirmed that the 
mortgage account had been paid off. This was correct based on the mortgage 
account number Mr D provided, but it was incorrect of it to remove the charge as the 
interest only mortgage was still outstanding.
Mr and Ms D had continued to make payments to their interest only mortgage 
account until May 2019, and TSB had not received any queries from Mr and Ms D 
about their concerns until May 2019.
It apologised for the wrong information that had been provided. But it said that the 
mortgage was provided on the agreement that it would be repaid in full. It had 
therefore instructed its solicitors to re-register the charge. And it explained that, in the 
meantime, the mortgage account was in arrears by around £350 and, as this was 
more than the monthly mortgage payments, this had been reported to the credit 
reference agencies.
It was sorry to hear that Mr and Ms D had been unhappy with the tone and content of 
its previous letter;
It explained that its solicitors had been in contact with Mr and Ms D as it required the 
mortgage to be repaid in full. But it understood why Mr and Ms D felt that they did not 
need to re-establish contact as they had been consistently writing to TSB. It agreed 
with Mr and Ms Ds comments and apologised.
To apologise further for the confusion and the time taken to respond it paid an 
additional £150 to their account. 
Mr and Ms D were still not happy with TSBs response and referred their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. She 
said, in summary, that while she agreed TSB had given Mr and Ms D wrong information, she 
felt that Mr and Ms D had some responsibility to seek clarifications regarding their ongoing 
mortgage balance. So she didnt think it was appropriate to ask TSB to waive the 
outstanding balance of the mortgage, or the interest applied from April 2019 onwards. But 
she did ask TSB to remove any arrears related charges from the time the complaint was with 
this service. And she recommended that Mr and Ms D should engage with TSB to discuss 
their options for repaying the balance.
Mr and Ms D do not agree with our investigators conclusions. Mr D says in particular:
He did everything a reasonable person would do to ensure that the information 
provided by TSB was correct by calling to confirm in October 2018, and he had relied 
on the information he was given;
TSB didnt tell them that there had been an error until May 2019 and he didnt receive 
any letters or statements from TSB in November 2018;
The compensation TSB has paid them is insufficient.TSB had upheld their request to waive the interest in the first final response letter it 
sent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has raised a large number of issues. Ive carefully considered everything he has to say 
but have concentrated my decision on those issues which I find to be central to Mr and 
Ms Ds complaint.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I agree with our investigator 
that Mr and Ms Ds complaint should not be upheld. I realise that this will come as a 
disappointment to them  Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr D says that he thought that his interest only mortgage must have been converted to a 
repayment mortgage. But Ive seen a declaration of intent completed by Mr and Ms D in 
February 2017. This states that they intended to repay the mortgage from the proceeds of an 
endowment policy and from personal savings. So Im satisfied that they were aware at that 
date that the mortgage was interest only. And Im also satisfied that they would have 
received annual statements setting out the amount owing. So, on balance, Im persuaded 
that they should have been aware that the balance of Mortgage A was due to be repaid 
when it matured in May 2019. 
I do agree that the correspondence that Mr and Ms D received in October 2018 regarding 
the redemption of sub-account 2 was misleading. TSB has explained that these were 
standard letters. It says, and I accept, that the fact that Mr and Ms D had another mortgage 
account had been overlooked due to human error. But, although I note that Mr D telephoned 
TSB around this time to clarify the situation, Im persuaded that it should have been 
reasonably obvious to him that the agent he spoke to was looking only at Mortgage B and 
hadnt noticed that Mortgage A was still in existence. 
TSB wrote to Mr and Ms D about their interest only mortgage in November 2018. This letter 
explained that the term on that mortgage was due to end at the end of April 2019. And, 
although I note that Mr D says he has no record of receiving this letter, I see that it was sent 
to the correct address. So Im persuaded, on balance, that it would have been received. And, 
while it didnt expressly say that TSB had made an error in the earlier correspondence, Im 
persuaded that the letter should have also put Mr and Ms D on notice that Mortgage A was 
still due to be repaid in May 2019.
Overall, Im satisfied that TSB removed its charge on Mr and Ms Ds property by mistake, 
due to human error. But this does not mean that the balance due on Mortgage A does not 
need to be repaid.
Mr D wants TSB to waive interest on his account while he has been pursuing his complaint. 
And he says that TSB agreed to do this in its first final response letter. But, although I agree 
that its first final response letter was unclear on this issue, that letter was expressly 
superseded by the second final response letter. And the second final response letter made it 
clear that arrears had accrued on the account due to interest being added. So Im not 
persuaded that TSB has agreed to waive the interest. And, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not persuaded that it is fair to ask it to do so.Our investigator asked TSB to remove any arrears related charges that were applied to Mr 
and Ms Ds account. But TSB has confirmed that no arrears related charges, cost or any 
other charges have been applied to the mortgage account. 
TSB has paid Mr and Ms D a total of £250 compensation. I note that Mr and Ms D do not 
feel that this is sufficient. But, having carefully considered all the circumstances I find it to be 
fair and reasonable.
I recommend that Mr and Ms D should now engage with TSB to discuss the options 
available to them for repaying the balance outstanding on Mortgage A. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman