DRN-4401927
The complaint
Miss F complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds refusal to cover all of her treatment
costs under a private medical insurance claim.
What happened
Miss F has private medical insurance cover with AXA. After Miss F made a claim, AXA
agreed to cover the cost of treatment with Dr A as she was recognised by it. But it refused to
cover the cost of Miss Fs treatment with Miss A (one of Dr As employees) as it said she
wasnt recognised. Unhappy with this, Miss F brought a complaint to this Service, via her
representative.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AXAs refusal to
cover Miss As fees had been in line with the policy terms.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 October 2023. Heres what I said:
As Miss F has only complained about AXAs refusal to cover Miss As fees, this is the only
point I have considered within this decision.
The policy explains that AXA will cover the costs of fee-approved specialists, and some of
the costs of fee-limited specialists. It says that if a specialist isnt fee-approved or fee-
limited then AXA will not pay any of their fees, or any fees for treatment under their
direction.
Miss A wasnt a fee-approved specialist or fee-limited specialist. Therefore, according to
the above, AXA didnt need to cover Miss As fees.
Ive considered the rest of the policy to see if Miss As fees could be covered elsewhere. I
note that Miss F held the mental health option on her cover. The policy says that if this is
held, AXA will cover out-patient treatment (treatment that takes place in a hospital,
consulting room, or out-patient clinic) by any of the following:
a mental health specialist
a cognitive behavioural therapist, so long as a specialist in our fee-approved
category oversees your treatment
a psychologist, so long as a specialist in our fee-approved category oversees
your treatment.
Words in bold are specifically defined within the policy.
A specialist is defined as:
A medical practitioner who meets all of the following conditions:
has specialist training in an area of medicine, such as training as a consultant
surgeon, consultant anaesthetist, consultant physician or consultant psychiatrist
is fully registered under the Medical Acts
is recognised by us as a specialist.
The definition of a specialist who we recognise for out-patient treatment only is widened to
include those who meet all of the following conditions:
specialise in musculoskeletal medicine, sports medicine, psychosexual medicine
podiatric surgery.
is fully registered under the Medical Acts
is recognised by us as a specialist.
The full criteria we use when recognising specialists are available on request.
A psychologist is defined as:
a medical practitioner who meets all of the following conditions:
practises psychology
is recognised by us as a psychologist
.
The full criteria we use when recognising psychologists are available on request
So if Miss A were a mental health specialist or a psychologist (the treatment was overseen
by Dr A, who is in AXAs fee-approved category), then her fees for out-patient treatment
could potentially be covered.
I understand that Miss A worked as a Senior Assistant Clinical Psychologist at the time. We
asked AXA for more information about this. It said that an assistant psychologist is not a
professionally qualified psychologist and doesnt meet its criteria for recognising
psychologists. It has set out the steps to become a qualified psychologist. Im satisfied from
this information that Miss A wouldnt be considered a mental health specialist or
psychologist.
I therefore find that it was reasonable for AXA to refuse to cover Miss As fees, as these
werent covered under the mental health option either.
Miss Fs representative has made the point that Dr As Practice Manager had confirmed that
AXA had previously covered the cost of treatment carried out by Dr As employees, as the
work was overseen by Dr A.
AXA says that if it has previously paid for Miss As fees for other members, this would have
either been at its clients request through a large corporate scheme, or possibly in error.
Regardless of this, Miss As fees arent covered under Miss Fs policy, and so I dont require
AXA to cover these.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision.
AXA responded to confirm it had nothing further to add. 
Miss F didnt provide any further comments for me to consider by the deadline given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider, I remain of the view 
that it was reasonable for AXA to refuse to cover Miss As fees, and for the same reasons as 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman