DRN-3867559
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a fee-paying 
Club Lloyds Silver account in May 2016.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were not given the option of any other account and were led to 
believe that the fee-paying packaged account was their only option.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with this, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the account was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs R say that they were not presented with the option of a fee-free account. 
Whereas Lloyds has provided copies of documents that were generated at the time of the 
sale. And these strongly indicate that fee-free accounts were discussed with Mr and Mrs R.
The detailed notes that were made during the sale explain what was discussed with Mr and 
Mrs R. They specifically say that Mr and Mrs R already held a packaged account with 
another bank. The notes explain that Mr and Mrs R were planning on closing their existing 
packaged account with the other bank and wanted to replicate the existing insurance 
benefits on their new account with Lloyds. And looking at Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances, it 
looks like they were able to benefit from the account features  for example, they travelled 
abroad shortly after the sale, so couldve made use of the travel insurance, and they claimed 
on the breakdown cover in the following year as well. So the account seemed reasonably 
suitable for their circumstances at the time.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I think it was much more likely that Mr and Mrs 
R agreed to account because they were interested in the benefits it provided, rather than 
because they were mis-led into thinking it was their only option. 
I have considered everything else that has been provided but Ive not seen anything else 
that indicates that the account was mis-sold. For example, I can see it was identified during 
the sale that either Mr or Mrs R had an existing medical condition, and it was pointed out that 
Mr and Mrs R would need to check that the condition would be covered by the travel insurer 
first. I can also see that Mr and Mrs R spoke to the membership helpline on the day of the 
sale  presumably to check the level of cover was right for their circumstances. And the 
notes say that Mr and Mrs R were happy to proceed with the Club Lloyds Silver account, 
after their conversation with the membership helpline. 
So overall I think that Mr and Mrs R had a good appreciation of what it was they were 
agreeing to and that they were aware they didnt have to have the Club Lloyds Silver 
account if they didnt want it. I therefore dont think it would be appropriate to ask Lloyds to 
refund the account fees, as Mr and Mrs R have requested.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman