DRN-4336100
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wouldnt refund money he lost 
after he gave someone else access to his account.
What happened
Mr H had an account with Nationwide. He says someone offered to pay him to access this 
account, and an account he had with another bank. But the third party instead stole £1,845 
of Mr Hs own money. Mr H thinks he should get this money back.
Mr H contacted Nationwide. He didnt tell Nationwide about the third party  he instead said 
hed lost his phone and didnt know anything about these payments. Following an 
investigation, Nationwide thought it most likely that Mr H had authorised these payments. 
Mr H then told Nationwide about the third party. But Nationwide said it wouldnt change its 
decision. Dissatisfied, Mr H referred the complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked at everything and thought what Nationwide had done was fair.
Mr H didnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
In this case the relevant regulations are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Generally 
speaking, Mr H can be held responsible for payments he has authorised. This can include 
payments made by third parties where they have Mr Hs permission to use the account  
even if Mr H didnt know about, or ask the third party to make, those specific payments.
The regulations also mean Mr H can be held responsible for unauthorised payments where 
he either deliberately (with intent) or very carelessly (with gross negligence) failed to keep 
his personal security credentials secure.
Here, Mr H says he gave someone else access to his accounts. He says the third party 
wanted to pay £5,000 into his account and told Mr H that he could keep £2,000. But the third 
party in fact transferred £1,845 from Mr Hs account with another bank to Mr Hs account 
with Nationwide  and then transferred these funds to an account belonging to someone 
else. And it appears Mr H helped that person do this by giving them the security information 
they needed to set up the account on a second device.
While I accept this will be disappointing to Mr H, I find Nationwide acted fairly in holding Mr H 
responsible for these payments. Mr H admits he let someone else use his account. In doing 
so, Mr H had allowed the third party to appear to have his authority to make these payment 
transactions.
In any case, Mr H gave third party the details they needed to log onto his mobile banking. 
And the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Hs account said 
It is important that you take all reasonable precautions to take care of your [] 
security details to help prevent fraud and protect your account.
It went on to say Mr H should 
keep your PIN, password, security codes (passcodes generated by your card reader 
and One Time Passcodes (OTPs) sent to you) and other security information secret 
at all times.
As Ive said, the relevant regulations said that Mr H would be liable for all losses incurred if 
hed deliberately failed to comply with his obligations in relation to his personalised security 
credentials. By giving a third party access to his security credentials, I find that Mr H did do 
so deliberately. It follows that Nationwide could in any event fairly hold Mr H responsible for 
them.
Ive considered Mr Hs further comments. He says hes unable to provide further details of 
the arrangement with the third party because it was made using an instant messaging 
service that deletes chats after a short period. He also thinks Nationwide could have done 
more to protect him, for instance by calling him to check hed made these payments. But this 
doesnt change my conclusion. Regardless of what Mr H was told over the messaging 
service, its plain that he gave someone else permission to use his account. Nationwide 
couldnt have known that Mr H would give a third party access to his mobile banking. And so 
I remain satisfied that its fair for Nationwide to have held Mr H responsible for the payments.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman