DRN-3875138
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the settlement paid by Vitality Health Limited for her private medical 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs M has a private medical insurance policy with Vitality, with the Countrywide hospital list.
Mrs M called Vitality to obtain authorisation for treatment. Authorisation was given, and 
Vitality confirmed that the specialist and hospital named by Mrs M were fully covered. 
However, Mrs M then had the investigations at different hospitals.
Vitality said those hospitals werent on the Countrywide list, which meant it would only 
contribute 60% towards the costs. Unhappy with this, Mrs M brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Vitality had made 
Mrs M aware that if she changed hospital or specialist, she should tell Vitality so it could 
confirm they would be covered. As Mrs M hadnt done so, he found that Vitality hadnt done 
anything wrong. 
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
Using a hospital not on your plan

If you have added a hospital list to your plan, you must use a hospital eligible on your plan. If 
you use a hospital that is not eligible on your plan, you will have to pay 40% of the costs of 
the treatment (excluding consultants fees) yourself. Even if you do decide to use a hospital 
not eligible on your plan, you must still ensure the hospital or facility you choose, and the 
consultant that treats you, is recognised by us. We will not make any payment if the 
treatment takes place in a hospital or facility not recognised by us, or under the care of a 
consultant not recognised by us.
To avoid any doubt about whether your treatment will be covered, you should always have 
your treatment authorised by us in advance.
Ive listened to the authorisation call. Vitality authorised the treatment at the hospital named 
by Mrs M. Vitalitys adviser then made it clear that the hospital was on the Countrywide list, 
but said that if this changed for any reason, Mrs M should call back so Vitality could make 
sure she was fully covered. 
Unfortunately, Mrs M didnt call Vitality back to let it know that she would be going to different 
hospitals to the one she named during the authorisation call. However, Im satisfied that 
Vitality made her aware that she needed to do so and didnt lead her to believe that she 
would be covered at any hospital. 
I therefore find that Vitality was entitled to deal with the claim in line with the policy terms, 
and limit the payment to 60% of the cost. 
Mrs M also says that it took from March 2022 to August 2022 for Vitality to confirm that it had 
paid 60% of the invoices. 
I see that in March 2022 Mrs M complained to Vitality that it wouldnt cover the invoices in 
full. Mrs M later said in July 2022 that Vitalitys staff member had confirmed in March 2022 
that Vitality would be paying 60% of the invoices. 
Vitality did issue a statement which said that Mrs M was liable for the full cost of the 
treatment at one of the hospitals. However, it did then put this right. And Mrs M was already 
aware that Vitality would be paying 60% of the invoice. Whilst there were some delays in 
Vitality making this payment to the hospital, it appears this was because Vitality was 
investigating Mrs Ms complaint that she thought Vitality were liable for the full cost. Though 
Mrs M had already been reassured by Vitality that it would cover 60% of the cost. Im 
satisfied Vitality didnt act unreasonably here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman