DRN-3994491
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) closed her account without giving her a reason.
She says Lloyds gave her bad service throughout and made it difficult for her to get an
account elsewhere.
What happened
Lloyds sent Miss S a letter on 1 September 2020 explaining her account would be closed in
60 days time. The letter also explained the account would be blocked during this time and
she would need to attend branch to access her money.
Initially Lloyds allowed Miss S to complete transfers over the phone to existing payees, but
then stopped allowing this on 19 October 2020. She says she received bad service when on
the phone, with the advisor being rude and unhelpful. She also says there was a delay with
her Universal Credit payment.
Miss S has explained this was her main account which all her benefits were paid into. She is
a full-time carer for her daughter, whilst also dealing with her own physical and mental health
conditions. This made getting to branch each time very difficult and expensive.
Lloyds addressed Miss Ss complaint about the incorrect information she was given around
being able to transfer money on the phone and the service she received on the phone call. It
apologised and paid her £250 for the inconvenience caused and £166 for her travel costs. It
also addressed her complaint about the Universal Credit payment and paid her £70 for the
inconvenience caused.
Miss S remained unhappy. Shes explained she has found it difficult to get an account
elsewhere and believes Lloyds is responsible for that.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. She concluded that Lloyds took the
commercial decision to close her account and followed the terms and conditions in doing so,
giving 60 days notice. She was satisfied the compensation already paid was enough for the 
service issues Miss S faced. She advised Miss S to contact CIFAS if she was still having
trouble opening a new account.
Miss S disagreed, saying Lloyds has not acted fairly in closing her account or making it
impossible for her to get another one elsewhere. Because Miss S remained unhappy, the
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I provisionally decided - and why
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 
February 2023. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Firstly, I can understand why Miss S is so frustrated with the account closure and not being
able to open an account elsewhere. I appreciate she feels she has been treated unfairly. Id
like to assure her I have thoroughly looked into why her account was closed to check
Lloyds did this correctly and fairly.
Lloyds has commercial discretion and can choose who it does business with, just as
Miss S can choose who to bank with. Of course, we expect Lloyds to use its
commercial discretion to make decisions free of prejudice and discrimination. And having
reviewed the reasons for the closure, Im satisfied in Miss Ss case it did this. So, despite
the way it feels to Miss S, Ive seen nothing to suggest Lloyds treated Miss S unfairly when
deciding to close her account.
However, unlike the investigator, Im not satisfied it gave Miss S the required notice under
the terms and conditions. On the surface Lloyds gave Miss S 60 days notice of her account
closure. However, during this time the account was blocked, and the only way Miss S could
access her money was to go into branch. This is therefore akin more to an immediate
closure as Miss S could not use her account as usual during the notice period.
Given this, Ive considered whether I think Lloyds was able to close the account immediately
under the terms and conditions and Im not satisfied it was. Whilst I understand Lloyds
reasons for closing Miss Ss account, Im not persuaded the situation warranted the account
to be blocked during the notice period.
Had the account not been blocked during the notice period, Miss S would have been able to
continue using it as normal during this time. Importantly, Miss S wouldnt have needed to
attend branch as many times as she did, if at all. This is something that has caused her a
great deal of inconvenience and upset, especially when taking into account her personal
circumstances.
I can see Miss S has already been paid £320 compensation for the service issues that
occurred following the closure, namely being given incorrect information about being able to
make transfers over the phone, the customer service she received on a phone call and also
the issue with her Universal Credit. Miss S also received £166 for the travel costs she
incurred in attending branch.
Ive considered whether I think the £320 is fair for these issues and I think it is  in fact, it is
likely more than I would have recommended for these issues alone. However, I dont think
this amount is fair for the complaint as a whole, given my conclusions around the block being
in place during the notice period.
Miss Ss personal circumstances, including her health and the fact she is a full-time carer for
her daughter, made attending branch extremely difficult and inconvenient. Something she
made Lloyds aware of. Its also clear the money in the account was benefits and essential to 
her day to day living and caring responsibilities, so she didnt have any other option but to
get herself to branch when this money was paid in. Because of the frequency of these
payments and her need to pay bills and use the money for essentials, she had to attend
branch over 15 times during the notice period and this understandably took its toll on Miss S
given her situation. Miss S shouldnt have needed to attend branch at all, as she should
have had full access and use of her account during the notice period. This would have
prevented the inconvenience she faced in having to do so and some of the stress she faced
in having to sort everything out so quickly. Given this, I think an additional £100 would be
fair. This would take the total compensation for distress and inconvenience to £420.
When reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account that Miss S has had trouble opening
an account elsewhere, as well has having other accounts in her name closed. While she
believes Lloyds is responsible for this, I must stress that Ive seen nothing to suggest this is
the case. So, while I do think Lloyds should have allowed Miss S to use her account during
the notice period, Im conscious she would have always suffered a level of inconvenienceand frustration during this time in trying to arrange new banking facilities. And had she not
had these issues, would have been able to transfer her payments to a new account sooner.
This is not something I can hold Lloyds responsible for though, as Im satisfied it was entitled
to close her account and isnt responsible for the issues Miss S is having in opening another
account elsewhere or having other existing accounts closed down.
I do think Miss Ss full travel costs should be covered, but she isnt able to evidence what
this totalled, so unless she has anything further, Im satisfied the £166 Lloyds has already
paid is fair. Having reviewed the complaint notes Lloyds provided, I can see it did ask for this
evidence in November 2020. So, while I appreciate Miss Ss comments about not having this
evidence anymore, she did have the opportunity to provide it at the time.
Lloyds responded to the provisional decision and agreed. 
Miss S responded explaining that her travel costs would have exceeded £500 as each taxi 
trip to branch was £15 there and £15 back, with a £5 waiting fee. She also said her phone 
bill was over £100 due to all the calls she had to make to Lloyds. 
Miss S also explained the severe impact continually travelling to branch and having difficulty 
getting her money had on her mental health. So overall, she didnt think the compensation 
was sufficient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the impact having to attend branch so many times had on Miss S and Im truly 
sorry to hear how difficult this was for her. However, Im satisfied a total award of £420 is a 
fair reflection of this in the circumstances. As I said in my provisional decision, I do have to 
take into account Miss S was struggling to open an account elsewhere at the time and this 
isnt something I can hold Lloyds responsible for. So, I think some of the stress Miss S was 
under would have been down to this and her inability to move her regular payments 
elsewhere smoothly.  
In relation to the costs, as I explained in my provisional decision, I do think Lloyds should 
cover these as Miss S shouldnt have had to attend branch. But I think what it has already 
paid is fair without any further evidence of this. Lloyds explained to Miss S at the time of her 
complaint that it would cover additional costs if she could evidence these as she had given 
different examples of what the taxis were costing her. I can see it specifically asked for a 
copy of her phone bill and taxi receipts at the time. Miss S had the opportunity to provide 
these at that point and have her expenses covered, so it wouldnt therefore be fair for me to 
now direct Lloyds to pay Miss S an unknown amount of money.
So, whilst I fully appreciate Miss Ss strength of feeling about how she was treated, Im not 
minded to direct Lloyds to pay anything additional to the £100 set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Miss S an additional £100 for the trouble and upset caused, taking the 
total award for this to £420.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and direct it to 
pay her £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman