DRN-3306845
The complaint
Ms R complains about Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) who declined her claim under her 
gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms R had a device that was insured with Amtrust. She reported it stolen and Amtrust opened 
a claim. During the claims process, it requested further information from her. In particularly, it 
asked Ms R about the circumstances of the loss especially how and where the device had 
been. 
Amtrust considered the information it was given from Ms R and declined her claim. Ms R 
raised a complaint with Amtrust as Ms R believed that her device had been stolen and so 
was covered under the policy. 
In its final response, Amtrust said that the policy covered Ms Rs devices for accidental 
damage and theft. It said that following an assessment of Ms Rs claim it was unable to 
proceed as no insured peril had occurred, given that Ms R was unable to say what had 
happened to the device.  
Ms R was given her referral rights and as she remained unhappy, she referred a complaint 
to our service.  One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should 
be upheld. Her view was that Amtrust had fairly applied the policy terms and conditions. And 
as Ms R was unable to provide any supporting evidence that her device had been stolen, 
she concluded that there was nothing further that she could reasonably ask Amtrust to do. 
Amtrust accepted the claim. Ms R did not. She said that she felt that it should be sufficient 
for her to say that a theft had occurred. She said that she had told Amtrust the areas that 
she had been in and where the device couldve been taken from. She explained that she had 
obtained a crime reference number and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Ms R, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Ms R held a gadget insurance policy with Amtrust that covered devices for accidental 
damage and theft. Ms R contacted Amtrust to report the theft of her device. She explained 
the circumstances of the loss, in that she had left her home with the device in a bag, as she 
had intended to use the device whilst out. She visited two businesses and on return to her 
home, she noticed that the device was missing.  
Amtrust asked Ms R how she thought the device had been stolen, to which Ms R said that 
she didnt know. Ms R explained that the device had been in one of a few bags that she had 
been carrying and she assumed that that bag had been left at one of the businesses, but 
she couldnt be sure. 
She also said that she had returned to one of the businesses to see if there had been CCTV 
of what happened to her device. That business told Ms R that there was no footage that 
could show what had happened to Ms Rs device. Following on from this information, 
Amtrust declined Ms Rs claim. 
I have considered the information provided by Ms R, the policy schedule and terms and 
conditions. As well as Amtrusts claim notes. Amtrust confirmed that because Ms R was 
unable to provide any additional evidence that a theft had occurred, it declined her claim. 
I should point out that in cases like this, the onus to prove that an insured peril has taken 
place is on customers before a claim is successful. In other words, Ms R would need to 
provide evidence that proves a theft has occurred. 
The policy terms and conditions, defines theft as: the dishonest removal of the Equipment 
from You by a third party. So, Im satisfied that Ms R wouldve been reasonably aware of 
her obligations under the policy. 
Although I can see that Ms R took steps to try and obtain additional evidence, in the form of 
CCTV, the recording was obscured as the location of the camera was in a blind spot. So, Ms 
R was unable to provide the additional evidence required and Amtrust was unable to validate 
her claim.  
Amtrust asked for further evidence from Ms R, but all that was provided was a photograph of 
a bike and some bags. Amtrust said that this did not prove that a theft had occurred, and I 
agree, as this doesnt show what happened to the device. So, I cant agree that Amtrust was 
unreasonable or unfair in declining the claim, as Ms R has been unable to prove that a theft 
had occurred. 
Whilst I appreciate that this would not have been the outcome that Ms R was looking for and 
I understand how disheartening it would have been to have had the claim rejected, I am 
unable to recommend that Amtrust re-consider the claim, for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman