DRN-3454621
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited has made an unfair claim decision on his claims made 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr M and his wife purchased a timeshare with a timeshare supplier, Company A in 2014. 
Theyd had a number of timeshares with Company A, first purchasing a timeshare in 2001 
with it. Between 2001 and 2014, they purchased a number of upgrades/additions to their 
timeshare.
In 2014, when using the timeshare, Mr M and his wife wanted to speak to Company A about 
selling it. They said they were unhappy with the previous timeshare and wanted to talk about 
what could be done to improve the situation. They did this when attending what they 
believed was an update meeting. It was during this meeting that Mr M and his wife 
purchased the upgrade, resulting in the product they now have.
The sale in 2014 was part funded by Mr Ms MBNA credit card and the trade in of their 
previous points. In 2019, with the assistance of a professional representative, Mr and Mrs M 
complained about the sale of their timeshare in 2014. They felt the benefits of the timeshare 
had been misrepresented at the point of sale and they asked that Company A refund what 
theyd paid for it. They also made a like claim under the CCA to MBNA.
MBNA said it didnt believe there was anything to support that the benefits of the timeshare 
had been misrepresented, or that the contract had been breached. In the absence of this, it 
said it couldnt agree they had a successful claim under s.75 of the CCA.
Mr M brought a complaint to this service (as the purchase was made on his MBNA card) and 
asked that we consider if MBNA had acted fairly. At this point MBNA said it hadnt 
considered the issue as a complaint and asked that we allow it time to do so and provide its 
final response on the matter. In May 2020, it issued a final response that followed its initial 
letter on the claim decision and said it couldnt agree there was anything which would 
indicate a claim under s.75 CCA would be successful. So it thought it had acted fairly when 
the claim was turned down.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think MBNA had acted unfairly when 
it declined the s.75 CCA claim. She agreed that it wasnt clear there had been a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract and because of this, she didnt think MBNA 
needed to do anything else in relation to the claim. 
Mr M and his representative also talked about the contract being unfair. They felt the sales 
process and misrepresentations made by Company A during the sales process could have  
given rise to an unfair debtor creditor relationship. Our investigator considered this under 
s.140A CCA  she explained that only a court can decide whether an unfair relationship 
existed, but as this is a relevant consideration to whether MBNA acted fairly, she felt it was 
right to consider whether it was likely a court would decide there was anything that might 
give rise to an unfair relationship. 
Our investigator didnt think it was likely a court would determine there was anything that 
would suggest the relationship between MBNA and Mr M was unfair. So she didnt think 
MBNA needed to do anything else when considering this too.
Mr M and his representative disagreed. They reiterated what they believed to have been 
misrepresented at the point of sale and highlighted again why they felt the relationship 
between MBNA and Mr M was unfair as a result of this. 
Because Mr M disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.   
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 31 August 2022. Ive copied what I set out 
below:
When information isnt complete, inconclusive, unclear, or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened based on the available evidence. I 
appreciate that Mr M and his representative has provided a large amount of information in 
support of this complaint. It is important I set out that I will not cover off every point thats 
been raised in detail  this is not my role as an ombudsman  but I will instead focus on what 
I consider to be relevant to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Based on this, Im not planning on upholding Mr Ms complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for him, but Ill explain why Im planning on reaching this outcome.
For clarity, although Mr M and his wife have purchased a number of timeshares from 
Company A over the years, Ive considered only the sale in 2014. This sale was part funded 
by Mr Ms credit card and this means he has the ability to make a like claim under the CCA 
for misrepresentation or breach of contract. Ive considered whether MBNA has acted fairly 
when declining this claim.
Mr M has alleged that a number of things were misrepresented at the point of sale in 2014. 
Based on what hes said, I believe the crux of his complaint to be the following:
The timeshare would provide the access to additional benefits from those they had 
available previously  including access to free golf and childrens activities.
The product was high in demand with Company As affiliated brand and would 
increase in value. And the purchase was deeded and would be linked to the local 
property market.
It would be a valuable asset that could be passed on to Mr Ms children. But if they 
decided they no longer wanted the timeshare; Company A would purchase the 
timeshare back from them.
Were the benefits of the timeshare misrepresented?
In support of the allegations, Mr M has provided a detailed witness statement setting out his 
experience with Company A and the timeline of events and his purchases with it.
He hasnt provided within this a great deal of information around what was said in relation to 
the benefits of the timeshare, beyond that he was told it was high in demand, and exclusive. He later talks about some benefits that he believed to have been included when the 
timeshare was purchased being removed. 
Although Mr M recalls the timeshare providing the benefit of free golf, the paperwork 
supplied at the point of sale and signed by Mr M and his wife  shows this benefit to be 
different  it provided a 50% discount on green fees and doesnt say these were free. But it 
did explain that access to other services like River Island Rings and mini golf on the site of 
their accommodation booked, would be free of charge. 
Mr M may recall what was said at the point of sale differently, bearing in mind it was some 
time ago I think this is understandable. I think it is likely the benefits of the timeshare were 
discussed and the benefits that appealed to Mr M and his family may have been focused on. 
But based on what has been provided, Im not persuaded that Company A misrepresented 
these too Mr M at the point of sale. 
Was the timeshare misrepresented as being linked to a property and an investment? 
Mr M has explained that he believed the timeshare purchase was akin to him purchasing an 
interest in freehold property. And that this was portrayed as a good investment option with it 
likely the cost of the local property market would increase. Together with this, the sales 
agent said the timeshare was high in demand because it was affiliated with another brand 
and the value had increased. As an American purchase, the timeshare was deeded and 
Mr M was told this means it was linked to the Florida property market  he believed this 
meant he was purchasing the interest in the freehold and not just accommodation rights. He 
says he was also told it would be extremely valuable on the second-hand market and 
Company A would purchase it back without question.
All of the above indicates that Mr M bought the timeshare with the belief that it would have a 
future value. So while Mr Ms representative has argued it wasnt sold as an investment but 
as an asset of value, that can go up or down, I dont think the word investment is an unfair 
description. But they feel the timeshare has no value, so the description provided at the point 
of sale was untrue.
A number of documents were provided at the sale to Mr M and his wife and these included 
mortgage documentation and information which related to property tax and real estate 
notices. A mortgage, by definition is a legal agreement where a lender, lends money in 
exchange for taking title of the debtors property. This gives the lender the right to take the 
property if the borrower fails to repay the borrowing. With this being in place, I think it 
indicates Mr M had a beneficial interest in something that the mortgage could be lent 
against. So I dont think describing the timeshare as having a beneficial interest in a property 
is untrue.  
The paperwork provided at the point of sale  explains that a deed doesnt make any promise 
about the value of the timeshare or its future resale value. The sales agent said the product 
was high in demand and increasing in value, but I think this is nothing more than an opinion 
rather than a statement of fact. And while an opinion can amount to a misrepresentation, it 
can only do so if, having amounted to a false statement of existing fact, it is apparent it 
wasnt an opinion held by the supplier or that it lacked any reasonable basis. Ive not been 
provided with anything from Company A to show that at the time of the sale, the agent knew 
or ought to reasonably have known that the representation in question was untrue. And in 
the absence of this, Im not persuaded that it was anything more than an honestly held 
opinion. 
Did Company A misrepresent that it would buy back the timeshare? Mr M also says that Company A said it would definitely buy back his timeshare if he ever 
wanted to sell it. 
He also explains, when detailing why he purchased the new timeshare, the following was 
said:
At our update meeting we raised the point of not being happy and that we felt wed rather 
sell the unit. They then proceeded to explain that they do not buy back units at all. 
This contradicts what Mr M says he was later told in the meeting in relation to his new 
timeshare.
The paperwork included with the sale sets out that Company A requires first refusal of any 
resales, but it doesnt confirm that it will definitely buy back the timeshare. And with Mr M 
recalling two contradicting pieces of information in relation to the resale and buy back of his 
timeshare in the same meeting, Im not persuaded that Company A did misrepresent that it 
would buy back the timeshare.
Overall, although I understand that Mr M is no longer happy with the timeshare he has, Ive 
not been provided with anything to demonstrate to me that Company A did misrepresent it at 
the point of sale. In the absence of this, I dont think MBNA has acted unfairly when its said 
it doesnt believe there is a valid claim under s.75 CCA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Our investigator explained that she felt s.140A of the CCA is relevant to Mr Ms complaint. 
Throughout his complaint and submission to us, he and his representative have made 
reference to the relationship being unfair. 
Ive reviewed the file and while I agree there has been reference to this within the 
submissions, Ive not seen that a specific claim under s.140A has been made by Mr M. Nor 
have I seen that MBNA has had the opportunity to address and answer this claim. In the 
absence of this, I asked MBNA if it would consent to this service considering this as part of 
Mr Ms complaint and whether, based on this wed think it needs to do anything else. MBNA 
has said it is happy for us to give an answer on this, so Ive set out my thoughts below. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether there is an unfair relationship between Mr M 
and MBNA for the purpose of s.140A. But, as its relevant law, when deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is in this complaint, given its particular circumstances, I still have to 
consider it along with what I think a court is likely to conclude. Having done that, Im not 
persuaded a court would likely reach the conclusion that the relationship is unfair. 
The crux of Mr Ms argument is the combined effect of a number of clauses within the 
timeshare agreement were not explained clearly and key information, including warnings of 
the risks associated with the purchase, the difficult resale market and the impact of the 
foreclosure clause within the agreement created an unfair relationship. Mr Ms representative 
has referenced the case of Link Financial v Wilson [2014] EWHC 252 which they say shows 
a court agreed that a similar foreclosure clause gave rise to an unfair relationship.
I understand why Mr M thinks the case referenced might be relevant as it does point to a 
similar clause. But, I think there is a number of things which mean this cant be taken as a 
likely indication of what a court might conclude when considering the agreement he has with 
MBNA. I say this because the judgement makes reference to EU/English statute and 
regulations, including the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).The agreement between Mr M and Company A isnt subject to the same statute and or 
regulations. This is instead governed by Florida State law. There is nothing to suggest that 
the agreement between Mr M and Company A is governed by UK law and I think its unlikely 
that it would be, based on what is set out within the sales documentation. So I dont think the 
case referenced above can be taken as an indication of what a court would likely say when 
considering the foreclosure clause in the agreement between Mr M and Company A.
Mr M also argues that a number of misrepresentations can give rise to an unfair relationship. 
But as Ive explained above, Im not persuaded that the timeshare or its benefits were 
misrepresented to Mr M when Company A sold it. 
Mr M has also referenced pressure and that the sale was conducted in a way which meant 
he and his wife felt they had to purchase the timeshare. Ive thought about this, we know it is 
common that these sales often lasted for a number of hours and a focus is placed on the 
benefits of the timeshare. But Mr M was not a new customer, hed had a number of 
timeshares sold through Company A before and I think with this in mind, it is likely he knew 
that he didnt need to say yes. And that he would be aware of the sales tactics likely 
employed by Company A when describing and selling the timeshare. 
Overall, I dont think a court would likely conclude that the relationship between Mr M and 
MBNA was unfair based on the information provided. So for that reason, I dont think MBNA 
has to do anything further in relation to Mr Ms claim under s.140A CCA.
Based on everything Ive seen; I currently dont believe there is anything which indicates 
MBNA has acted unfairly with how it has handled the claims made under the CCA. I see no 
reason why it needs to take further action in relation to these.
MBNA had nothing further to add in response to the provisional decision. 
Mr Ms representative responded to say they disagreed. No comment was made on my 
proposed decision in relation to the s.75 claim and my proposed outcome to this. But they 
disagreed with my proposed outcome in response the s.140A claim. 
They didnt think it was fair to say that simply because the agreement between Company A 
and Mr M is subject to Florida State law, that the case referenced is not relevant when 
thinking about whether it is likely a court would agree there is an unfair relationship between 
Mr M and MBNA. It said this is because the agreement between Mr M and MBNA is 
regulated by UK law and the CCA established an independent statutory regime which 
governs the relationship between UK financial institutions and consumers. It said the 
application of protection extends to foreign transactions and a court could give consideration 
to the foreclosure clause set out in the agreement between Mr M and Company A and 
whether this gave rise to an unfair relationship under s140A (1) (a) CCA. 
Because Mr M didnt agree, Ive reconsidered the evidence provided and his new 
arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the evidence on this complaint as well as the new information provided 
by Mr M and his representative, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I 
know Mr M will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why this is the case.Mr M provided no response to most of my provisional decision, so I see no reason to add to 
what Ive said previously in relation to the claims of misrepresentation. Instead, Ill focus on 
what Mr M has said in response to my provisional decision on his s.140A CCA claim.
As Ive said in the provisional decision included, only a court has the power to decide if an 
unfair relationship exists between Mr M and MBNA for the purpose of s.140A. But as it is 
relevant law, Ive needed to give this consideration when thinking about what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is for this complaint. Having done so, and while taking account of the 
additional comments made by Mr M and his representative, I am still not persuaded that it is 
likely a court would decide that the relationship between MBNA and Mr M is unfair.
The CCA does provide protection for consumers in the UK when making payments with 
credit. And Mr M is right that this would extend to transactions made outside of the UK. But it 
isnt the location of the sale that makes me think the case of Link Financial v Wilson [2014] 
EWHC 252 is not relevant here. It is instead the nature of the agreement between Mr M and 
Company A and what sits behind the detail of this, specifically the foreclosure clause that 
Mr M feels is inherently unfair. 
The judgement for the Link Financial V Wilson case, refers to EU/English law when talking 
about the contract clause (that sale took place in the EU). And the judge made specific 
references to this and the UTCCR. But this wouldnt be applicable to the contract that Mr M 
has with Company A. As the paperwork sets out, this is subject to Florida state law and I 
dont think it is unreasonable to say that UK/EU law does not apply to this. So although Mr M 
can still rely on his protection afforded by the CCA, I dont think the same considerations can 
be given to the formation of the contract between himself and Company A. And I think this 
will have an impact on and whether a it is likely a court would determine this gave rise to an 
unfair relationship. 
Overall, I still am not persuaded that a court would likely conclude that the relationship 
between Mr M and MBNA was unfair based on the information provided. So for that reason, I 
dont think MBNA has to do anything further in relation to Mr Ms claim under s.140A CCA.
For the reasons explained above  including the provisional decision set out in the 
background of this complaint, I dont thin MBNA has acted unfairly when considering Mr Ms 
claims brought under the CCA. And see no reason to ask it to anything else in response to 
these.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman