DRN-1568391
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank account (PBA) in 2011 
and an additional bolt on PBA in 2016. 
What happened
Mr H had a Select PBA from 2001  he believes he didnt consent to this, but Im not 
looking into that as Mr H has accepted that our time-limit rules apply to that issue. 
In 2011, Mr Hs existing PBA was changed to a Premier PBA account. This cost £25 per 
month, which was £16.05 more than he was paying before. In 2016 Mr H was sold a Club 
Lloyds bolt on, which gave extra benefits in return for an extra £3 monthly fee. 
Mr H says that he went into a Lloyds branch in 2011 to ask about a loan and he was sold a 
PBA. He says he didnt properly consent to this. He says he thought he was signing 
paperwork to initiate loan searches. He also says he remembers the manager telling him 
that in order to get a loan that I required a better bank account. He says he eventually took 
a loan elsewhere and had not realised his account had been changed and that he was 
paying monthly charges. He feels that Lloyds have been underhand and have tricked him 
into taking these account changes.
Mr H says he was unaware of these extra costs until he reviewed his outgoings a year or so 
ago, after a change in his personal circumstances. 
An adjudicator said they thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld, Mr H disagreed and so 
the case has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive taken into account what Mr H has said in response to the adjudicators view of the 
case, but Ive still decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H does appear to be doing his best to recall what happened when the accounts were 
changed.  And I agree it is possible the changes happened without Lloyds making sure he 
properly understood and consented. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this 
actually happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires there to be evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was several years 
ago. And I can see that, over the progress of his complaint to Lloyds and then the 
ombudsman service, Mr H has apparently struggled to remember exactly what happened  
for example he at first thought he had been told he had to have the PBA in 2016 when 
enquiring about a mortgage but then realised it must have been in 2011 and that he was told 
he needed a different PBA to be approved for a loan. I accept that, once he had understood 
that the new PBA happened in 2011, he has given us more detail of the meeting he had with 
a Lloyds manager. 
It isnt at all surprising Mr H struggled to remember what happened, given that this was 
several years ago. But it does show that it wouldnt be fair to base a decision only on Mr Hs 
recollections. 
In favour of Lloyds, I do also see that there is a form signed by Mr H in 2011, and this does 
appear to me to set out fairly clearly that Mr H was signing up for a different bank account; 
and it has boxes ticked for him to confirm he had received a Welcome Pack, Bank 
Charges Brochure and Your personal summary of recommendations. I accept it can be 
easy to just sign forms without realising it isnt what you think its for, but I think its likely 
there was some discussion, and Mr H has confirmed there was some discussion of a 
different bank account. 
I cant be sure but, overall, on the balance of evidence I have, I think its more likely than not 
Lloyds acted reasonably in 2011 when the new PBA started. I dont have good enough 
evidence to say otherwise. And I also dont have strong evidence that the changes in 2016 
also werent made in a fair way. 
There are other ways in which a PBA can be mis-sold, and Ive looked into those too. But I 
dont think these kinds of mis-sale happened in the 2011 and 2016 PBA changes. Lloyds 
was recommending the PBAs to Mr H, which means it had a higher standard to reach in the 
process it followed  it had to make sure its recommendation was appropriate to Mr Hs 
individual circumstances and needs. But as far as I can see it was:
It doesnt look as though Mr H couldnt afford the cost (though I accept he resents 
having paid them). 
The previous Select PBA had benefits that included AA breakdown cover, mobile 
phone insurance and cover against loss of a wallet, handbag or briefcase; and some 
banking benefits. The Premier PBA had similar benefits although it also had identity 
theft protection, travel insurance and home emergency cover. From what Mr H has 
told us, I think several of these benefits in the Premier PBA could have been useful to 
him, including the additional travel insurance. 
The bolt on in 2016 offered preferential banking rates (and some other benefits) 
which again could have been useful to Mr H.   
And I dont have strong evidence to show any other reason the recommendations might not 
have been appropriate, or that better information would have changed whether Mr H took the 
PBA. 
So, I dont think the PBAs were mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020. 
Timothy BaileyOmbudsman