DRN-3056026
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) caused damage to 
her home as a result of work it carried out under her home emergency policy.
 
What happened
Mrs R contacted British Gas when she found a leak coming from her boiler. An engineer 
visited and replaced a part in the boiler, which stopped the leak. About a week later, Mrs R 
found water leaking into a bedroom in her home. It also damaged the bathroom and kitchen.
Mrs R arranged for a plumber to visit. Mrs R thought the leak might be coming from under 
the bath, but when the plumber checked he couldnt find a leak. He then checked the boiler 
and found that the condensate pipe had been disconnected, which he said was causing a 
leak at the back of the boiler.
Mrs R complained to British Gas as she said its engineer must have disconnected the pipe 
when he fixed the original leak. When British Gas replied it said when Mrs R had reported 
the initial leak she had described it as uncontainable. An engineer had visited the same 
day and carried out a repair. It said that although a further leak had occurred, Mrs Rs 
property had already been damaged by the first leak. It said the first leak would have 
produced a much higher volume of water than a leak from a condensate pipe. British Gas 
said it wasnt responsible for the damage and Mrs R should contact her own insurers.
When Mrs R contacted this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he 
hadnt seen evidence to show that it was likely the engineer had deliberately or accidentally 
disconnected the pipe, as the engineer worked on a different part of the boiler.
As Mrs R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 August 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mrs Rs plumber described the source of the leak as  the pipework from the boiler was 
leaking. The pipe that was leaking was the condense pipe from the boiler which had become 
disconnected. Mrs R also provided this service with photos and a video of the source of the 
leak and when she described what was leaking she said it was the white condensate pipe.
British Gass records from the visit said that a condense tube had split. It listed the part it 
replaced as Syphon Condensate  Trap. British Gas has also now confirmed that when 
replacing this part, it connects to a pipe located under the boiler and that this was normally a 
white plastic pipe. I note that a condensate pipe is often white plastic and that this pipe is 
what had split. So, I think the British Gas engineer worked on the pipe that was found to be 
disconnected and, given the sequence of events, that its more likely than not that the 
engineer didnt connect it properly.
So, the next issue is whether British Gas was responsible for the damage to Mrs Rs home, 
which included damage to the kitchen, a bedroom and the bathroom. When British Gas 
responded to Mrs Rs complaint it said:
From a technical point of view, the initial leak would have produced a much higher volume 
of water, resulting in a much greater chance of property damage being caused. Whereas a 
leak from a condensate pipe where water would only escape when the boiler was in use, 
would produce a much lower volume of water. i.e. half a pint of water every couple of hours 
at most, if the boiler was running on maximum permanently of course.
British Gas said the original leak would have produced a much higher volume of water, but 
Ive not seen any evidence to support its technical point of view or any estimate of what 
that volume of water was. British Gas also said Mrs R described the original leak as 
uncontainable, which it told Mrs R meant that it was unable to be contained, thus causing 
property damage. It therefore argued that the property had already been damaged by the 
first leak. However, I note that uncontainable can also mean that something is 
unstoppable. Mrs R also explained to British Gas that the water from the first leak could be 
captured in a bowl and that she had reported the leak as soon as she was aware of it. 
I havent seen anything to show why British Gass assessment that the first leak produced a 
high volume of water, or that this was the source of the damage, should be relied on, 
particularly as it seems mainly to be based on its interpretation of a single word 
uncontainable.
Ive also thought about the second leak. Ive looked at the manufacturers website for the 
boiler Mrs R owned. This said:
A condensing boiler, on average, creates around 2 litres of condensate water per hour, and 
it needs somewhere to go! By having a condensate pipe, the water is safely disposed of with 
the rest of the water, just like a sink or washing machine
Mrs R said her boiler was running 24 hours a day due to the time of year and because she 
had a young child. This meant that, based on the information from the boiler manufacturer, 
the boiler was likely to be producing about 48 litres of condensate water each day. British 
Gas told Mrs R that the boiler would at most have produced half a pint of water every 
couple of hours, which is about 0.28 litres per hour or about 3.36 litres per day. From what 
Ive seen, this appears to be a considerable underestimate of the amount of water produced 
by the boiler. 
As Im currently of the view that British Gass engineer didnt connect the condensate pipe, 
this water would have been leaking from the boiler into Mrs Rs home. Mrs R only realised 
there was a leak several days after British Gas engineer visited. After only two days, 200 
litres of water could have leaked from the boiler. Looking at the photos of the extent of the 
damage to Mrs Rs home, I think the level of damage visible is consistent with such a large 
volume of water. So, thinking about both of the leaks, I currently think its more likely than not 
that the damage was caused by the second leak and that British Gas was therefore 
responsible for the damage.
So, Ive thought about what should happen as a result of this. Due to the damage caused by 
the leak, Mrs R has already replaced some carpets at a total of cost of £1,689, so I currently 
intend to say British Gas should pay that cost. Ive also thought about the damage to the 
bathroom. Mrs Rs plumber caused some of the damage while looking for the leak. However, 
Mrs R has explained that the plumber used a process of elimination to find the leak and that 
the boiler wasnt the obvious source, given British Gas had very recently carried out a repair 
on it. Mrs R also explained that the water from the leak got into the wall behind the bathroom tiles and required air drying for months. As a result, Mrs R had to retile the bathroom. In my 
view she had to do this as a direct result of the damage caused by British Gas, so I currently 
intend to say that British Gas also needs to pay the cost of retiling.  The tiles cost £592.96 
and the labour cost was £1,619.
Mrs R and her husbands passports were water damaged so also had to be replaced for a 
total cost of £171. So, I currently intend to say British Gas should refund the cost of replacing 
the passports.
Ive also looked at the damage to the kitchen. Photos provided by Mrs R show damage to 
the ceiling and walls and to cupboards and worktops. Mrs R has provided the cost of 
materials for repairing the damage to the walls and ceiling, which came to a total of £240.90. 
Mrs R was unable to provide receipts from when the items were bought, but provided the 
price of the equivalent items at a DIY store. Im satisfied that these costs are reasonable and 
that British Gas should pay them. Mrs R said her husband did the painting and re-grouting 
and she would like his time to be paid for at a commercial rate. However, Im not currently 
persuaded that it would be fair for me to calculate a cost in this way. Instead I will consider 
this when I think about compensation.
In terms of the damage to the cupboards and worktops, Ive seen evidence of water damage 
that has caused them to split in various places. I asked Mrs R why individual cupboards 
couldnt be replaced and she provided an email from the kitchen company that stated the 
kitchen she owned was no longer available. So, Im satisfied that it isnt possible to replace 
some parts of the kitchen and not others and for Mrs R still to have a matching kitchen, 
which is what she had before the damage. As a result, I currently intend to say that British 
Gas must pay the cost to replace the kitchen, which, including replacing the cupboards, 
worktops, sink and taps and labour costs, comes to £12,356.
Where Mrs R has already paid the costs, I also currently intend to say British Gas should 
pay 8% simple interest on each of those amounts, as she will have lost use of that money. 
My understanding is that this is everything listed above apart from replacing the kitchen 
itself. In order for British Gas to calculate this, Mrs R would need to provide evidence to 
British Gas of the date on which these items were paid for, as British Gas will need to 
calculate the interest payable from that date. As Mrs R doesnt have the receipts for the DIY 
items for the kitchen, I intend to say the interest should be calculated from 1 May 2020.
Ive also thought about compensation. Mrs R has described a range of reasons why she 
wants British Gas to pay her compensation, including that her baby had to move into Mrs R 
and her husbands bedroom because of the damage, the impact on her mental health, 
including because of how British Gas dealt with her. Im also aware of the impact on her 
ability to enjoy her home and the disruption to her family life more broadly, including because 
of living in her home while it dried out and the time set aside to repair the kitchen ceiling and 
walls. So, having thought about this, I currently intend to say British Gas should pay £800 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs R.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 16 September 2021.
Mrs R thanked me for my decision and asked if compensation could also be awarded to her 
husband and child.
British Gas sent responses from two different people, which in summary said;
It was refused access to view the damage and, instead, Mrs R would only send photos
It queried why Mrs R plumber didnt charge anything and why British Gas wasnt called 
out for the second leakIt said one of the passports was almost out of date
It queried why it was replacing a whole kitchen
It was positive that no matter how cold it was the boiler wouldnt have been run 24 hours 
a day
It queried why some items needed replacing and why some of those items cost the 
amount they did.
It said it didnt offer new for old and questioned the age of the kitchen and the damage 
and said it should only be responsible for replacing the damaged items and a 50% 
contribution to the undamaged items, which was in line with what a court would award.
It had asked to send a loss adjuster but clarified it wanted to send a contractor to cost 
the work and asked if I would agree to this.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, I should clarify that the 200 litres that may have leaked 
would have been over four or five days and that the overall figure was what I considered 
when I made my provisional decision.
Ive also carefully considered all of the points raised, even if I dont address each of them 
here. Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
Mrs R requested compensation for her husband and child. This service doesnt generally 
have the power to award compensation to third parties. The compensation was awarded to 
Mrs R as the policyholder and took into account the impact on Mrs R because of the issues 
she said affected her husband and child.
In terms of British Gass comments, I made my decision based on all the information it made 
available to this service, which should have included the whole business file. There was 
nothing in the information provided by British Gas that suggested to me there was a lack of 
co-operation from Mrs R and in response to my provisional decision British Gas didnt 
provide any additional evidence from its records that showed this was the case. 
I think its also important to look at what led to this complaint. There was a leak that I think 
was more likely than not caused by British Gass engineer. This caused a range of damage 
to Mrs Rs home. Ideally, Mrs R would be put back in the exact position she was in before 
the leak, but that isnt possible. So, our services position is that the consumer needs to be 
returned as close to the position they were in before the claim, which means lasting repairs 
need to be carried out. 
I considered the range of damage and looked at whether I thought it should be included in 
any settlement. For each of the items Ive said British Gas needs to pay for, I considered 
what was reasonable to deal with each of the issues, including looking at things like how 
long was left to run on each passport and the cost of items.
In terms of replacing the kitchen, Ive already addressed why I think British Gas should 
replace the whole kitchen. British Gas appears to be suggesting that it would expect Mrs R 
to install a second-hand kitchen, or for the costs to at least be based on the cost of one, for 
which British Gas would pay the full amount for some parts and a contribution for others, 
with Mrs R making up any difference in costs. But, looking at what happened in this case, I 
dont think it would be fair to settle the claim in this way or to expect Mrs R to contribute to costs that, in my view, were the result of a mistake made by British Gas. I remain of the view 
that British Gas needs to pay for all of the items previously listed and at the amounts 
previously given in order to settle this complaint.
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, British Gas must pay for the replacement carpets, replacement 
passports, bathroom tiles and the cost of the labour, as well as the cost of materials to repair 
the kitchen walls and ceiling. It must also pay interest on each of those amounts. It must also 
pay for the cost of replacing the kitchen and £800 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs R.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay the following costs:
o£1,689 for the replacement carpets
o£171 for the replacement passports
o£592.96 for the bathroom tiles and £1,619 for the cost of the labour
o£240.90 for the cost of materials to repair the kitchen walls and ceiling
For each of these payments, British Gas must pay 8% simple interest on them. This 
should be calculated from the date on which Mrs R made the payment to the date on 
which British Gas refunds her, subject to her providing evidence of this, with the 
exception of the kitchen materials, which should be calculated from 1 May 2020. 
If British Gas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs 
R a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £12,356 for the cost of replacing the kitchen.
Pay £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs R.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman