DRN-4112497
The complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited reduced his No Claims Bonus 
(NCB) following a claim on his motor insurance policy which he says wasnt his fault. He 
wants it to restore his NCB.
What happened
Mr T was involved in an accident with a motorcyclist, and he made a claim on his policy. 
Admiral said that due to the lack of evidence, the best possible outcome was a split liability 
settlement. This meant that a fault claim was recorded against Mr T and his NCB reduced. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to settle a claim as it saw fit. She thought its 
decision that a split liability settlement was the best possible outcome was fair and 
reasonable. Admiral hadnt recovered its outlay, so she thought this meant Mr T would be 
held at fault. Mr Ts NCB was unprotected, so she thought Admiral had fairly reduced his 
NCB as a consequence. 
Mr T replied that he thought, based on the balance of probabilities, the learner motorcyclist 
doing deliveries was more likely to have caused the accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr T feels that he wasnt at fault for the accident. Hes provided his 
version of events. He said he was turning right when the motorcyclist collided with his right 
front door. Mr T said he was driving correctly and thinks the motorcyclist was to blame. The 
motorcyclist said that Mr T turned across his path. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr T the same as someone else in his position. 
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr T to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr T has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual.
Insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest 
a third party claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
The evidence that Admiral had to consider was the two drivers conflicting versions of 
events. It checked, but there was no CCTV or dashcam evidence or any independent 
witnesses. It looked at the location online and reviewed a report from the attending police 
officer.
Admiral explained that a court would look unfavourably if it relied on the motorcyclist being a 
learner or a delivery driver. So it considered Mr Ts responsibilities under the Highway Code 
and legal precedent. And it decided that the best possible outcome was a split liability 
decision as it couldnt prove in court that the other driver was fully at fault. 
I think this was a reasonable decision for Admiral to make in the circumstances. And I think it 
was entitled to do this by the policys terms and conditions after reasonably investigating the 
claim and fully considering the available evidence. 
The result for Mr T was that he was held partially at fault. Mr T hadnt protected his NCB. 
And, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, this was affected by the fault claim. 
The maximum that Admiral allows for NCB is five years and this was stepped back two years 
by the fault claim. Im satisfied that this was fair and reasonable, and I dont require Admiral 
to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman