DRN-4083689
The complaint
Miss P complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited [BG] handled a claim she 
made on her HomeCare home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive included a summary 
here. 
Miss P has a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by BG which provides 
cover for a number of things in her home including repairs to her boiler. 
Miss P first identified an apparent problem with the boiler motor overrunning in 
January 2022 but this wasnt addressed by BG when it undertook a brief service 
around this time. The boiler started to develop further problems and in April 2022, it 
wouldnt start at all. Miss P did eventually manage to get it started but it then wouldnt 
turn off. So, she reported this to BG for repair under her policy.
An initial attempt at repair was undertaken the next day but the engineer didnt find 
the fault and so left. Miss P got back in contact with BG as she said the boiler still 
wasnt working so it sent another engineer the same day who said parts needed 
ordering and he would need to return to fit them. He said the boiler should be turned 
off in the meantime.
Over the next month or so, various visits were arranged where engineers failed to 
turn up or werent available to attend at the appointed time. Miss P said she had to 
take time off work to be available for these visits and this caused her distress and 
inconvenience. The repair was completed at the end of May 2022 and the boiler 
could be turned back on again. 
Miss P complained to BG about the way it had handled the claim and the impact this 
had on her. It apologised for the delays and poor service she had received and said it 
would provide feedback to the people who had handled the calls with Miss P. It also 
confirmed it had amended the contact details on the policy and paid Miss P 
compensation of £125 as an apology.
Unhappy with this, Miss P raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator 
upheld the complaint and told BG it should increase its compensation to £300. BG 
agreed to this; Miss P still thought this was unfair so the complaint has come to me 
for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to say how complaints should be resolved 
quickly and with minimal formality. That means I will focus on what I consider to be the crux 
of the complaint and may not comment on everything raised by the parties but I can confirm I 
have considered everything theyve said even if I dont refer to it specifically. 
It seems theres broad agreement about what happened throughout this claim and 
the key issue for me to decide is about the amount of the award BG should pay 
Miss P. 
BG has said its not uncommon for boiler repairs not to be resolved on the first 
attempt as often new parts are required and initial repairs sometimes reveal further 
problems that couldnt be identified earlier. 
While this may be the case, I consider the total number of aborted and actual visits 
required to resolve this issue to be excessive. Miss P shouldnt have had to wait 
around for long periods of time only for engineers not to turn up or to be told none 
were available at the promised time. Nor should she have been without heating or 
hot water for a month. I think BG let her down here and Ill be keeping this in mind 
when considering the award I make.
Miss P was unhappy with a number of calls she had with BG where she said its staff 
had been rude and had provided poor service. While I havent been able to listen to 
these calls, I have kept in mind what Miss P says about the calls when considering 
my award. Im pleased to see in its final response, BG said it would provide feedback 
to its staff about the way the calls were handled and Im satisfied this is appropriate in 
the circumstances. 
Miss P also raised that BG contacted the previous joint owner of the property  whos 
not a party to the policy - during the claim. While Im not best placed to say if there 
has been a data breach here, I have kept in mind the inconvenience this caused 
when deciding on the award. Miss P may wish to pursue the matter with the 
Information Commissioners Office if she considers theres been a data breach. 
In summary, Im not satisfied BG has provided the level of service Id expect 
throughout this claim.
Putting things right
Its clear to me from the evidence Miss P found the delays and the repeated 
appointments - both those that were missed and the ones where an engineer did 
attend  to be very inconvenient, requiring her to amend her work arrangements on 
repeated occasions over the course of the month.
I can also understand why she found the way BG handled the claim and the lack of 
hot water while the boiler was turned off to be inconvenient and stressful.
Ive thought about everything Ive said above very carefully, mindful of this Services 
general approach to awards, and having done so, Ive concluded BG should pay 
Miss P a further £175, on top of the £125 its already paid, for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Miss P through its poor handling of her claim. 
I acknowledge Miss P is unlikely to think this is enough, but Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Miss P an additional £175 on top of the £125 its already paid her.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman