DRN-2521868
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited changed the terms of his insurance policy 
after he took it out.
 
What happened
In 2006 Mr M took out an Aviva Hospital Cash Benefit plan which would pay a daily cash 
benefit if he was admitted to hospital. Its not in dispute that at that time the age limit on the 
policy was 71. Shortly before Mr Ms 65th birthday he received a letter saying that Aviva 
would stop taking the premiums after his 65th birthday. Mr M was unhappy with this because 
he says he specifically wanted this cover following his retirement due to his circumstances. 
Aviva says it changed the policy terms in 2009 and Mr M was sent information about this. 
Theyve also said that this also has been communicated in the recent annual renewal letters. 
Mr M says he was never told about the change in the terms. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, 
she thought that Aviva had provided enough evidence to show that theyd communicated the 
changes in the policy to Mr M and that hed had enough information to decide if it remained 
right for him. Mr M didnt agree and provided more information. A different investigator 
reviewed all of the information again but didnt think the complaint should be upheld because 
she didnt think it demonstrated Aviva had done something wrong. Mr M asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Having reviewed the complaint I asked Mr M to comment on correspondence he was sent by 
Aviva which referred to the change in the age limit. Mr M replied to say, in summary, that 
Aviva hadnt told him about the changes to the policy. He referred to various correspondence 
in support of his position and said he simply wants his premiums refunded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of detailed representations and provided a lot of evidence in 
support of his case, all of which Ive considered. However, in my decision Ill only refer to 
those which I think are central to the outcome of this complaint. 
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say, in summary, that Aviva needed to give Mr M 
enough information to decide if the policy was right for him at the point of sale and at the 
point of renewal. 
The policy was taken out in 2006 and has renewed each year. Its not in dispute that when 
Mr M took out the policy the age limit of the policy was 71. So, I think the key issue is 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to reduce the age limit on the policy and 
whether it did enough to make Mr M aware of the changes to the policy. 
The original policy terms included a term which said Aviva had the right to review the policy 
and make changes to it. Aviva says it did that in 2009 as it decided to reduce the age limit for 
the policy. That was a commercial decision Aviva was entitled to take and I think it did so in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. So, I dont think Aviva has treated Mr M unfairly by 
changing the policy age limit after he took out the policy. 
Mr M has pointed to documentation sent in 2009 which he says doesnt make it clear that the 
age limit of the policy had changed. Aviva hasnt been able to provide copies of the specific 
letter sent to Mr M in 2009 because they dont store copies of documentation for this period 
of time. However, Ive seen a screen shot which confirms information about the changes to 
the policy were sent to Mr M at that time. 
In any event, I dont think the 2009 letters are central to the outcome of this complaint. Aviva 
has sent Mr M annual updates about his policy since 2015. Mr M was sent a letter in March 
2016 which clearly states: 
This insurance will end for all persons insured when the policyholder reaches 65 
years of age. 
He was also reminded in the letter of his right to cancel the policy. And he was sent similar 
letters in March 2018 which also referred to this. Mr M has suggested that these letters may 
not be genuine because of their format. I think its more likely that the reason they dont, for 
example, have barcodes on them is because they are copies of the letters, and so havent 
been generated to post. 
Mr M has also explained that there are discrepancies in the amounts referred to in the letters 
and the amounts shown on the policy schedule. But this also doesnt persuade me that this 
means the letters have been fabricated at a later date. I can see that Avivas system notes 
indicate that the policy was repriced in February 2016 and the premiums were increased. 
And I also dont think this means that Aviva failed to notify Mr M the policy would end on his 
65th birthday. If Mr M had concerns about the premiums it was open to him to contact Aviva 
to discuss it with them.  
Overall, Im satisfied it is most likely that Mr M received correspondence about the changes 
to the policy in advance of his 65th birthday. So, regardless of what information Mr M was 
sent previously, I think he was on notice from at least March 2016 that the policy would end 
on his 65th birthday. And I think that he had ample time to source alternative cover if that 
meant the policy no longer met his needs ahead of him turning 65. 
As Ive outlined above Aviva had the right to amend the policy terms  thats set out within 
the original contract of insurance. Ive taken into account what Mr M has said about unfair 
contract terms and the relevant industry rules and guidelines but his representations havent 
changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. Thats because, even if I 
accepted that Mr M wasnt put on notice in writing in March 2009 that the terms of the policy 
were changing, I dont think its fair and reasonable to uphold his complaint. 
I say that because Mr M had the full benefit of cover under the policy until his 65th birthday, 
provided he made an eligible claim. And, as Ive outlined above, Im satisfied he was on 
notice from at least 2016 that the age limit of the policy had reduced to 65.  
My final decisionIm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman