DRN-2328014
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, 
but we dont identify any other party.
We are bound by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) dispute resolution rules (DISP). 
Those rules provide that a consumer must first complain to the firm and wait for a final 
response or for eight weeks before we can deal with the complaint.
The rules also provide that unless the complaint is brought to us within six months of the 
final response (or the firm agrees or there are exceptional circumstances) we cannot deal 
with that complaint.
Mr H had a motor policy under which UKI was responsible for dealing with claims. 
In January 2019, Mr H reported to UKI that  while attempting to overtake him in dangerous 
circumstances - a third party had hit the rear of his vehicle. Mr H suffered damage to his 
vehicle, which UKI paid to repair. The third partys insurer wrote off his vehicle and paid him 
a sum for its pre-accident value.
Mr H had also suffered soft-tissue injuries. UKI introduced Mr H to a firm of solicitors 
associated with UKI. That firm acted for Mr H from about February 2019.
Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible 
for their actions. That doesnt include its associated law firm because that firm was acting for 
Mr H rather than for UKI.
At first, UKI and Mr Hs solicitors each asserted claims against the third party and his insurer. 
But in June 2019, UKI settled the third partys claim for his vehicle. UKI treated the claim as 
a fault claim against Mr H. He complained to UKI about that. UKI wrote a final response 
letter dated early June 2019. Mr H didnt bring his complaint to us within the next six months.
In late March or early April 2020, Mr H further complained to UKI that it had settled with the 
third party without saying that this was without prejudice to liability for the accident  so UKI 
had prejudiced his injury claim against the third party. UKI wrote a final response dated 15 
April 2020. Unhappy with that, Mr H brought his complaint to us in May 2020.
Our investigator said that, under DISP, she couldnt consider Mr Hs complaint about the 
decision to settle the third partys claim. She could only consider the complaint that - in the 
way it settled the third partys claim - UKI had prejudiced Mr Hs injury claim.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
there was enough evidence to say UKI caused prejudice in the way it settled the claim with 
the third party. She said that Mr Hs solicitors had told UKI that they didnt think the claim had 
been prejudiced, and UKI did enough when it settled the claim.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The reason for not initially complaining about UKI's behaviour was that he was 
pursuing legal action. 
His claim was subsequently prejudiced by negligence on the part of UKI. His solicitor 
was unable to pursue his case because UKI did not settle the claim without prejudice. 
His solicitor said UKI did prejudice his claim.
His solicitor wont provide a statement because of a conflict of interests.
UKI slandered his character.
The investigator said that we couldnt consider Mr Hs complaint about slander unless he 
provided evidence that he had first complained to UKI about it. The investigator set up a 
separate complaint about UKIs decision to settle the third partys claim. One of my 
colleagues has done a review of that.
So Im reviewing Mr Hs complaint that UKI had prejudiced his injury claim by settling the 
claim without saying it was without prejudice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its first final response (dated 4 June 2019) UKI said the following:
We will now proceed to deal with the third- party claim in full without prejudice to 
liability.
So I find that UKI intended to settle without prejudice. UKI settled the third partys claim on 
about 18 June 2019.
From Mr Hs solicitors letter to him dated 23 August 2019, I see that the third party had 
raised the issue that UKI had settled the third partys claim. The letter included the following:
I wrote to the third party today and sent the letter from [UKI] that stated that they are 
dealing on the matter without prejudice that was sent before the letters sent by the 
third party. I have requested that they deal on the injury claim.
From that, I find that Mr Hs solicitor had raised a cogent argument to deal with the third 
partys objection that UKI had settled without saying that it was without prejudice.
Many months later, in late March 2020, Mr Hs solicitor wrote to him as follows:Your motor insurer sent correspondence to  third party's solicitors, confirming that 
they were dealing with their claim on a without prejudice basis.
The third party's insurer advices that [third party's solicitors] are a separate entity to 
[third partys insurer] therefore they have not been advised that their claim was 
settled on a without prejudice basis.
I tried to argue that your motor insurer did inform [third party's solicitors] who were 
instructed by [third partys insurer] so they would have been aware. However I have 
received no further response from [third partys insurer].
As your motor insurers have sent correspondence to [third party's solicitors] instead 
of [third partys insurer] and subsequently settled third party's claim, this has 
prejudiced your claim and as result funding has been declined
From that, I note that Mr Hs solicitor had again made a cogent argument to the third partys 
solicitors, who had not replied. 
I note the reference to funding. But from another letter, I find that it was the After the 
Event insurance for costs liability that had been declined. Mr Hs solicitor attributed that to 
be a result of UKIs correspondence. But I consider that attribution inconsistent with the 
solicitors own cogent arguments.
 
In its second final response letter dated 15 April 2020, UKI said the following:
We settled the third-partys vehicle damage claim with [third party insurance 
company] on 18 June 2019 without commenting on liability, for completeness we 
should have advised [third party insurance company]  it was made on a without 
prejudice basis but, failing this it should not have been considered by [third party 
insurance company]  as an acceptance of liability. We are confident we have not 
prejudiced your own claim
That indicated that UKIs correspondence couldve been more complete. But the final 
response didnt mention UKIs correspondence with the third party's solicitors.
I find that Mr Hs solicitor had given inconsistent opinions about whether UKIs 
correspondence had the effect of settling the third partys claim without prejudice to liability. 
So Im not persuaded that UKI had caused prejudice to Mr Hs claim against the third party. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman