DRN-1685520
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc charged him an excess payment on a claim 
under his landlords insurance that didnt go ahead, and that costs have been forced upon 
him.
What happened
Mr P said in August 2019 his tenant told him there was a leak in his flat that might be coming 
from the flat above. Mr P investigated and said he was pushed by the building management 
company to claim, which he did via the broker. Mr P said it then appeared the leak was from 
within his flat. He said the broker said he would still be covered and should use a named 
specialist drying company and pay his £250 excess to them, following which the insurance 
would cover the repairs. 
Mr P said he told the broker he was reluctant to arrange drying as he wasn't completely 
certain where the water was coming from, but thought it was likely to be steam from his 
boiler. He said the broker insisted he use the drying company to detect the leak. Mr P said 
that he was given to understand that this would lead to the insurer covering the drying out 
and repairs.
Mr P said he told the drying company the problem was to do with the boiler, but they carried 
out checks and then reported the problem as condensation from the boiler  and his claim 
was declined. Mr P said he reluctantly accepted that his claim was invalid, but was very 
unhappy he had been pushed to pay the £250 excess to find out what he already knew, and 
then didnt receive the drying out and repairs.
Mr P said AXA told him it would respond to his complaint, but hadnt done so. AXA sent its 
final response to Mr Ps complaint on 23 October 2019. AXA said it instructed the drying 
company to detect the leak and this was accepted by Mr P. It said this determined that the 
damage was from boiler condensation. It said this damage occurred over a period of time 
rather than as a one-off incident and is excluded by the policy. AXA also said that as the leak 
wasnt from a fixed water apparatus the claim and costs incurred by the drying company 
werent covered. But it said Mr P should pay just his excess and it would cover the rest of the 
drying companys bill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said there was nothing 
to show AXA had forced the drying company on Mr P and its offer to detect the leak was 
accepted by Mr P and the broker and his claim had been correctly declined.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator saying hed been inaccurate about the leak, and that 
AXA hadnt responded to his complaint. He requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at AXAs handling of Mr Ps claim to see if it treated him fairly and in line 
with the terms of his policy.
When AXA received Mr Ps claim, it understood that the damage was due to a leak from the 
shower in the flat above, and that this had been isolated so no further damage would occur. 
AXA was told that Mr Ps flat was saturated and so it appointed the drying company to dry 
out the property. It then appears that Mr P became aware that there was no leak but more 
likely a boiler problem within his own flat. AXA responded by offering the drying companys 
services to detect the leak, and this is what we would expect an insurer to do in 
circumstances where there was some doubt that the problem had been resolved.
When the drying company arrived to detect the leak Mr P said he was certain the problem 
was his boiler. Perhaps, under a misapprehension about the claims process, Mr P then 
allowed the drying company to report on the source of the damage. Unfortunately, the 
source of the damage isnt covered by Mr Ps policy and so he had to meet the cost of his 
excess without then receiving repairs. This is a risk that policyholders take when making a 
claim that turns out not to be covered.
From the records provided to our service I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr P was 
forced by AXA to make the claim or accept the drying companys services. It appears that in 
response to the claim AXA advised it could assist with leak detection and received Mr Ps 
authority for this via the broker. There is no record of any objection made by Mr P to what 
took place.
I havent found that AXA treated Mr P unfairly in its handling of his claim or in its use of the 
specialist drying company. Since AXA incurred costs from the drying company over the 
amount of Mr Ps excess and has fairly declined his claim, its reasonable for AXA to require 
Mr P to pay the policy excess.  
If Mr P feels that he received incorrect advice about his claim from the broker, he may be 
able to bring a separate complaint about this business.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman