DRN-2821691
The complaint
Mr B complains that, after he complained to NewDay Ltd, his credit score was detrimentally
impacted as a result of query markers it placed on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 2 April 2021  a copy of which is set out here. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I said:
 What happened
Mr B held a credit card with NewDay. He opened his account in January 2017 and had a
longstanding history of settling his account balance in full each month.
In February 2020 Mr B said NewDay changed the way it operated its online account
management system. And he said he couldnt access or administer his account on his
computer following this change.
On 17 February Mr B contacted NewDay to ask for help in accessing his online account. He
was guided through the online password reset procedure. But, the following day, he
encountered the same problem and his account became blocked. He telephoned NewDay to
unblock his account and complained about how the change was impacting on him.
NewDay investigated Mr Bs concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. It did, however, apply
a credit to his account as a goodwill gesture to reflect the inconvenience hed experienced in
trying to access his online account.
Mr B subsequently found out that his credit score had decreased. He attributed this to a
query marker NewDay had recorded on his credit file following the complaint hed made.
And, on 22 April, he lodged a complaint about the marker NewDay had recorded.
When NewDay responded to Mr Bs second complaint it explained that it hadnt made an
error. It said his credit score wouldnt have been affected by it had applying a credit to his
account. And it recommended he contact Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) in order to
clarify why his score had been impacted.
Mr B then discovered NewDay had recorded a second query marker on his credit file, which
he said further reduced his score. He therefore referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended upholding this
complaint. He accepted NewDays explanation that it would apply a query marker while it
was investigating a customers complaint in line with business practice. But he thought that
process had resulted in an unfair outcome for Mr B. So, he recommended that NewDay
compensate Mr B in the sum of £75 to reflect the trouble and upset hed experienced.
Mr B accepted our investigators view of his complaint. But NewDay didnt agree and asked
for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Ive therefore been asked to make a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im departing from what
our investigator has said. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mr B has gone to some
trouble to provide us with some detailed submissions. I want to assure him that I have read
everything he has sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every comment hes
made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels
about the issues raised in this complaint. My role is to assess whether I think NewDay made
a mistake, or treated Mr B unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.
NewDay told our service it records a query marker when an account holder raises a
complaint. Its said this is in line with business policy and Ive no reason to doubt what its
said about that. NewDays decision to record a query marker is a business decision that its
entitled to make. And its not a decision we can interfere with. But sometimes where a
business strictly follows its policies and procedures it can lead to an unfair outcome for an
individual consumer, which is something we can look at. So, Ive considered whether that
happened here.
I can appreciate why Mr B feels that hes been penalised by NewDay for making complaints
about his account and the action its taken. He believes the markers it recorded with CRAs,
as a result of him raising complaints with it, has impacted his credit score.
I think it would be helpful if I explain to Mr B that in order for me to award compensation
based on his complaint, Id have to be satisfied that his credit score declined specifically
because NewDay recorded query markers on his credit file.
In this case, it isnt in dispute that NewDay recorded a query marker after each complaint
that Mr B raised. Mr B argues that these markers caused his credit score to decline but
NewDay refutes this.
Mr B told our investigator that, following his first complaint, his credit score declined to 506
out of a maximum score of 700 in April 2020. But I havent seen any evidence showing what
his score was prior to NewDay recording its query marker. So, I cant compare M Bs credit
score in April 2020 to how it was before that date.
Mr B appears to suggest that his score was 700 from prior to NewDay recording the first
query marker on his credit file. But, in the absence of evidence from Mr B, I cant fairly infer
that his score had reached the maximum possible.
I accept that Mr B had a blemish free history of consistently making payments to NewDay on
time. With that in mind, and based on the available evidence Ive seen, I'm not persuaded
that a single query marker recorded by NewDay would have caused Mr Bs credit score to
significantly reduce as he believes.
Im not satisfied its possible to draw the conclusion that Mr Bs credit score declined as a
result of the first query marker NewDay recorded. Based on the available evidence itwouldnt be safe to reach that conclusion.
I can see that Mr Bs credit score declined further from 506 in April to 495 in May. He
believes his occurred as a result of his second complaint with NewDay. But I have to take
into account here that there can be many reasons why a credit score can decline. And, while
I can understand why the issues affecting Mr B caused him great concern, I havent seen
enough to show the reduction in his score in May 2020 was caused solely because of the
second query marker NewDay recorded.
Mr Bs credit score increased to 506 in June and went up again the following month to 527.
He believes this supports his argument that the query markers NewDay had recorded were
responsible for the score reduction during the previous months. But, without seeing a full
credit report, its difficult to know what led to the increase in score. Its also important to note
that the score that Mr B will see is information for customers  rather than information that a
business will use when assessing applications for credit. Im not persuaded I can draw the
conclusion that Mr B wants me to. Im sorry to disappoint him but I havent seen any
substantive evidence to allow me to safely conclude that the action NewDay took negatively
impacted his credit file.
In Mr Bs complaint referral, he mentions that hes concerned that the query markers may
affect any applications for credit. When our service considers complaints we look at what
actually happened. We cant award compensation based on hypothetical and speculative
situations.
Here, I havent seen any evidence that demonstrates that Mr Bs ability to obtain credit has
been compromised as a result of NewDays actions. I can see he opened a new account in
July 2020, which would have resulted in a credit check. Im therefore not satisfied that
NewDays actions impacted on Mr B in the way hes suggesting.
I also havent seen any evidence to show that Mr B incurred financial loss as a result of the
query markers that were recorded. In those circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or impartial of
me to tell NewDay to pay compensation for something theres no evidence of. If Mr B would
like to provide evidence to the contrary I will, of course, consider it when I review any
responses to this provisional decision.
NewDay has shown our service evidence that the query markers were reported under the
status U. U markers generally have a neutral effect on a credit file. They dont, for example,
suggest an account has defaulted or that there are payment arrangement plans or arrears.
So, a U marker isnt usually considered to be positive or negative by a business providing
credit.
I can see Mr B has provided extracts of a credit report to our service. This seems to indicate
there are missed payments recorded on his credit file. I havent seen evidence
demonstrating who has recorded missed payments. Im not satisfied there were reported by
NewDay it only recorded query markers as a result of the complaints Mr B had made. It
appears to me that Mr B should explore with the CRA he obtained his credit report extracts
from whether it has recorded information reported to it correctly.
I should also add that, if Mr B is unhappy with the information recorded on his credit file, he
can put a notice of correction on his credit file if he wishes so this can be taken into
account with future lending applications. Its up to individual lenders how they consider this
though.
I know this wont be the response Mr B will want and I understand he feels very strongly
about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the reasons given, my provisional view is
that Im not minded to uphold this complaint.In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Mr B responded to say that he had received my provisional decision but did not agree with it. 
He didnt put forward any further arguments or provide any further evidence. NewDay 
acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed its agreement with the 
content.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to reach different conclusions to those set 
out in my provisional decision. 
I therefore remain persuaded that NewDay hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably here. Im 
still satisfied that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman