DRN-3230143
Complaint
Miss D and Mr T says that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly added overdraft 
charges to their overdrafts when they were struggling financially. Theyve said that the 
charges increased their financial burden. 
Background
Miss D and Mr T have complained about an account they held jointly as well as a sole 
account in Miss Ds name. When the complaint was referred to us, Barclays agreed that it 
ought to have realised the overdraft on Miss Ds sole account had become sustainable by 
July 2016. And it agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added from this point 
onwards. It didnt think it had acted unfairly on the joint account.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss D and Mr Ts concerns. She didnt think that 
Barclays had done anything wrong or treated Miss D and Mr T unfairly in respect of their 
joint account and thought that the offer in relation to Miss Ds sole account was fair and 
reasonable. So she thought that what Barclays had agreed to do was fair and reasonable 
and that it didnt need to do anything further. Miss D and Mr T disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that what Barclays has already 
agreed to do is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss D and Mr Ts complaint and 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ill explain why I think this is the case in a little 
more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged Miss D and Mr T over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss D and Mr T if it applied these interest, fees and charges 
to their accounts in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Miss D and Mr T was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered 
whether there were instances, during the period Miss D and Mr T have complained about, 
where Barclays didnt treat Miss D and Mr T fairly and reasonably. In other words, Ive 
looked at whether there were periods, during the period concerned, where Barclays 
continued charging Miss D and Mr T even though it knew, or it ought to have realised, they 
were in financial difficulty. 
Having thought about everything and looked through Miss D and Mr Ts statements 
throughout the period concerned I cant see that Barclays ought to have been aware that 
Miss D and Mr T might have been struggling financially. Miss D and Mr T may argue their 
regular use of their joint overdraft (and Miss Ds sole one prior to June 2016) was in itself an 
indication that they were struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value 
judgements over Miss D and Mr T expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of 
non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions being made from the account 
too. Crucially, the joint account and Miss Ds sole account regularly went into credit during 
this time too. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss D and Mr T 
werent experiencing financial difficulty. Im sorry to hear that Miss D and Mr T were 
struggling and I know they say there were credits going into their accounts from family 
members because of this. But as Miss D and Mr T didnt tell Barclays about this at the time, I 
cant see how it possibly could have known this was the case. And as the joint account was 
going into credit and Miss Ds account was also doing so prior to July 2016, I dont think 
Barclays had reason to query this either. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed 
with the interest, fees and charges it added to the joint account and the ones it added on 
Miss Ds sole account prior to July 2016. And I dont think Barclays unfairly added these 
charges in circumstances where it ought to have realised that Miss D and Mr T may have 
been experiencing financial difficulty.
Overall, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already agreed to do to put things right for    
Miss D and Mr T is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of their complaint. And I 
leave it up to them to decide whether to accept Barclays offer. I realise that this decision will 
be very disappointing for Miss D and Mr T  especially as theyve quite rightly pointed out it 
has taken some time for their case to reach this stage. But I hope that theyll understand the 
reasons for my decision and at least feel that their concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think what Barclays Bank UK Plc has already agreed to do 
to put things right for Miss D and Mr T is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of their 
complaint. And Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman