DRN-1324506
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society treated him unfairly in connection with 
missed payments on his personal loan. 
What happened
Mr T missed a payment on his personal loan in December 2017, at a time when he'd 
recently been bereaved. He wanted to add the missed payment to the end of the loan term, 
but Nationwide said this wasn't possible. It explained to Mr T what he needed to do if he 
wanted to spread the arrears over the remaining loan term.
Mr T didn't get back in touch with Nationwide, so the arrears remained on the account. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr T about them regularly.
Mr T missed another payment in February 2019, although he made up the payment shortly 
afterwards. But Nationwide then took steps to default the account, because the arrears from 
December 2017 had been outstanding for too long. The debt was passed to a third party 
agency which is now administering the loan.
Mr T considers Nationwide's actions are unreasonable, and that the society has failed to 
properly take account of his circumstances. He is also unhappy with some of the customer 
service he received from Nationwide. He wants the loan returned to Nationwide so that he 
can repay what he owes, without a negative record on his credit file.
Nationwide was satisfied Mr T's account had been administered in line with the terms and 
conditions of the loan agreement. It accepted it had failed to log the complaint he raised in 
February 2019, and paid £50 in recognition of this.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Nationwide had done what it could to help Mr T find a suitable means of repaying the arrears 
he owed. He also concluded that Nationwide acted in line with the account's terms and 
conditions when it defaulted Mr T's loan.
The investigator didn't find that Nationwide's customer service had been poor when it spoke 
to Mr T on the phone. He considered £50 was fair and reasonable for failing to log Mr T's 
complaint.
Mr T didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm aware that Mr T missed the December 2017 loan repayment because he'd recently been 
bereaved. I'm obviously sympathetic to the situation Mr T was in. I can see that he wanted 
the missed payment to be added to the end of his loan, and he says he thought this was 
what had been agreed.
I've listened to the call between Mr T and Nationwide in January 2018. I'm satisfied that the 
society told Mr T it wasn't possible to add the missing payment to the end of the loan as he 
wanted.
But the society told Mr T he could spread the arrears over other loan repayments. It said it 
would need to review his income and expenditure to work out what was affordable for him. I 
can't see that Mr T contacted Nationwide with the information it needed to set up a 
repayment plan.
Nationwide wrote to Mr T throughout 2018 about the arrears that remained on the account. 
The letters were sent to Mr T at his correct address. So from what I've seen, I'm satisfied 
that Nationwide kept Mr T properly informed about the position on his account.
Mr T missed another payment in February 2019. I appreciate that this happened because a 
cheque cleared at the same time as the payment was due - so Mr T's direct debit was 
returned unpaid. I understand Mr T also cleared the payment shortly after it had been 
missed.
But the original arrears from December 2017 still remained on the account. As Mr T hadn't 
cleared all of the missing payments Nationwide continued with the default action it had 
started when the February 2019 payment was missed.
I understand why Mr T might consider this was unfair. His family circumstances had 
changed, and he thinks Nationwide should've taken this into account before proceeding with 
the default action.
Again, I'm sympathetic to Mr T's circumstances and the difficulties he and his family are 
experiencing. But I'm also mindful that by February 2019 the arrears from December 2017 
had been outstanding for over a year. And as I've already said, I'm satisfied that Nationwide 
had kept Mr T informed about the position on his account.
When I take all of these points into account, I don't think it was unreasonable for Nationwide 
to take the default action it did in connection with Mr T's account. I'm satisfied that it did so in 
line with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement.
But I've also taken into account what Mr T has told me about his personal circumstances, 
and how these have changed while his complaint has been ongoing. I'm also mindful that Mr 
T's loan was towards the end of its term when Nationwide took the default action.
I asked Nationwide whether it would be willing to reconsider its position. The society said 
that as a gesture of goodwill it would take back Mr T's loan from the debt collection agency, 
subject to Mr T agreeing with it a suitable repayment plan. This would allow Mr T to repay 
the loan in line with its terms and conditions. 
But Mr T didn't think this went far enough. He wanted Nationwide to reduce what he owed, 
and place a notice of correction on his credit file. I understand Mr T hasn't been able to 
agree a suitable repayment plan with society. In the circumstances, I think the gesture of goodwill offered by Nationwide was a fair and 
reasonable resolution to Mr T's complaint. I won't be asking the society to do anything else. 
I've listened to the call that Mr T had with Nationwide in February 2019. I don't consider the 
service provided fell below the standard Mr T could've reasonably expected. From what I've 
heard, I'm satisfied that Nationwide's adviser did what he could to help Mr T. 
Nationwide paid £50 because it failed to log the complaint Mr T made in February 2019. I 
think that's fair and reasonable, but again I won't be asking the society to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman