DRN-4243369
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the delays he experienced when transferring his SIPP to 
Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) from another platform provider.
What happened
Mr H held his SIPP account with another platform provider who I shall refer to as    
Company A in this final decision. He requested that his SIPP be transferred to II but 
experienced delays during the transfer process.
Mr H complained to II. In its response of 14 October 2022, it didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
It said;
The original transfer request, the completed transfer and discharge forms were 
received by II on 28/30 April 2021 and they were passed to its pension administrator 
for review.
The transfer request was sent to the ceding platform on 11 May and the portfolio 
valuation was received by II on 17 May.
Three of the investments held werent supported by IIs platform and Mr H was 
emailed on 18 and 24 May for instructions about how to proceed. Mr H called II on   
2 June and advised he would provide his transfer instructions the following week, but 
nothing was heard so a further email was sent to Mr H on 8 June.
II sent Mr H a secure message on 17 June to say it had spoken with the ceding 
platform to confirm the unsupported investments could be sold and cash transferred 
but it still needed Mr Hs instruction to do this.
II received confirmation from Mr H on 18 June and it instructed the ceding platform 
on the same day. Trades and settlement dates were agreed as 21 June, the three 
investments settled on 25 June with a cash payment of £206,084.37 being received 
by II on 7 July and the transfer was complete.
II couldnt find that it was responsible for any delays experienced.
Mr H wasnt happy with the outcome so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
He outlined the timings as provided by II.
He thought the transfer was completed within a reasonable timeframe and the delay 
experienced was while II was waiting for instructions from Mr H about what action he 
wanted taken with the unsupported assets.
Mr H didnt agree with investigator. He asked that his complaint be reconsidered by an 
ombudsman, so was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision explaining that I had 
provisionally reached the same conclusion as the investigator but wanted to give both 
parties the opportunity to provide any further evidence or comment for my consideration if 
they wished before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
The crux of this complaint is about the delays experienced during the transfer of the
underlying assets of Mr Hs SIPP. II has said the delay was due to it awaiting Mr Hs
instruction about what was to be done with the three unsupported assets.
For completeness I shall clarify the assets that were to be transferred from    
Company A to II. According to Company As valuation Mr Hs pension account held 
the following;
Aviva Insured Funds Property S14                                                                   
Baillie Gifford Managed B Acc                                                                     
Legal & General Multi-Index 5 I Acc                                                            
Legal & General Multi-Index 6 I Acc                                                             
BMO Universal MAP Growth C Acc                                                             
Aviva Insured Funds Smooth Managed S14                                               
Witan Investment Trust PLC Ord 5p                                                            
Cash of £544.96.
The above timeline of events provided by II makes clear that the majority of the delay 
in the transfer of the SIPP was between 18 May and 18 June when II was awaiting 
instruction from Mr H. II has told us Mr H had been informed that there were three 
assets held within his SIPP account held with Company A which werent supported 
on IIs platform. Those assets were the two Aviva funds and the BMO fund. 
Instruction was needed about what action was to be taken with those three funds.
Mr H has said he didnt receive any email messages on 18 and 24 May and 8 June 
about the three unsupported assets. He had only been informed about the two of 
those assets  the two Aviva funds  in a secure message received on 17 June. Prior 
to that he was only aware of the unsupported BMO fund which was contained within 
both his SIPP and ISA account.
But I see there is a file note from II on 2 June to say, customer contacted me via 
phone and told that they will give instructions next week. We asked II for a copy of 
the call recording of 2 June but even though it was able to send some call recordings, 
unfortunately this wasnt one of them. After that the notes suggest that Mr H was 
emailed on 8 June and a secure message was sent on 17 June which detailed the 
three unsupported assets and resulted in Mr H sending a secure message to II on  
18 June instructing the sale of the three unsupported assets.
Mr H told us that the email address that was used by II was actually his 14-year-old 
sons email address. Mr H didnt use that email account and wasnt aware of any 
emails that had been sent to him. Mr H has said he didnt receive those emails and II 
should have contacted him via the secure message account or have called him when 
it didnt receive any response to the three emails it had sent. Mr H has said that it 
was only when he was phoned by II and subsequent to that call was sent a secure 
message on 17 June that he was aware of the unsupported assets within his SIPP. 
He gave his instruction for the go ahead to sell those assets on the next day.
II has been able to give us a copy of the phone call that took place on 17 June and 
that call suggests to me that the concept of II not being able to accept certain fund 
classes but that they can be switched into a different fund class. Mr H makes clear 
that he is aware about different classes of shares as he discussed the different 
charges they can incur. But its clear from that call that the three unsupported funds 
are discussed and ISIN numbers and values are given.Its very clear from that call that Mr H is frustrated by the delays. Its discussed that II 
can instruct Company A to sell his assets even if Mr H wasnt able to as his assets 
with Company A were frozen pending the transfer. The three unsupported assets are 
discussed and ISIN numbers are given.
I asked II about the origin of the email address that it had for Mr Hs SIPP account as 
I note its not the same address as was used for some of his other accounts with II. In 
response it provided us with a screenshot of Mr Hs account application. Amongst 
other details its recorded that the email address is the address that Mr H has told us 
was for his sons account who held a junior ISA account with II.
II further clarified that it would not apply or update an email account address without 
a clients instruction. And while it was apparent that Mr Hs son may have had an 
account as well, this would not affect Mr Hs application. I have asked the investigator 
to send a copy of the application onto Mr H along with this provisional decision so he 
can review that evidence for himself.
Mr H has said that as the emails sent to him contained something important then II 
should have called rather than send a secure message. But I think it was fair and 
reasonable for II have to relied upon the information that he gave as a method of 
communication with him. As the information given to II by Mr H was incorrect, I cant 
find that II is responsible for the delays.
Mr H thought his ISA and SIPP would be transferred simultaneously and not 
sequentially and he wasnt informed it would be dealt with in that way. The SIPP was 
transferred first. I dont think it was IIs intention to sequentially transfer the two 
accounts. But Mr H had given II two separate sets of transfer instructions  one for 
the ISA and one for the SIPP held with Company A so I dont agree they would 
necessarily be transferred together. They were dealt with by different teams at II.
And I think its clear from the history of the SIPP transfer that I have detailed above, 
that II wasnt necessarily responsible for any of the delay. II had asked for Mr Hs 
input via what I consider to be a reasonable method of communication  the email 
address he had given  about the three unsupported assets and was pending his 
response. So, I dont see that the transfer of the SIPP account could have gone 
ahead any earlier than it did pending a reply from Mr H about what action was to be 
taken.
Mr H has said he wasnt told how the transfers would proceed. But by him completing 
the transfer request documents and authority there was nothing further for Mr H to do 
pending the transfer, albeit with IIs request for instruction about what action it should 
take with regard to the unsupported assets. Quite simply Mr H had given an 
instruction  to transfer the SIPP  and II was acting upon that instruction in the way I 
would expect it to. 
Mr H told us he wanted both his ISA and SIPP complaints to be looked at together 
and not in isolated timeframes as otherwise it failed to illustrate the problems and 
difficulty as well as the frustrations, he encountered engaging with II. He said the 
transfers needed to be looked at from a laymans point of view. But Mr Hs two 
transfers from Company A related to two separate accounts with their own timelines 
and actions to be taken. So, I dont find it unreasonable for the transfers to be looked 
at in isolation. Information or requests for one of the accounts didnt impact on the 
other as they were separate accounts holding their own particular underlying assets.
Mr H says the communications with II werent good. He should have been better 
assigned transfer numbers and a single point of contact. II didnt do this. Mr H had to deal with different people. He should have been able to deal with the ISA and SIPP 
at the same time. This was important as they both had funds in common and similar 
named funds.
Mr H was given a transfer number ending number 814. He has said it was 
reasonable for him to have assumed that transfer number related to both of his 
accounts. However, that transfer reference only referred to his ISA account and he 
said he only became aware of the different transfer number for the SIPP months 
later. I have seen the messages headings for different transfer updates and note they 
all include the TR reference unique for each account (ending 969 for the SIPP). And 
messages I have seen finish with If you wish to contact us the easiest way is by 
secure message.quote your Transfer Ref: CS-TR-***969 in the title of the 
message. II has told us the TR codes were also referred to by both II and     
Company A as well as on the transfer request forms Mr H was provided with and 
which was uploaded to the account on IIs website.
And as Mr H had given II two separate instructions for his SIPP and ISA accounts, I 
dont think it was unreasonable to assume that they would be given their own 
account or transfer numbers. Mr H was transferring a total of five accounts and I 
wouldnt expect either party to the transfer to be using one account/transfer reference 
for all five accounts as that just wouldnt be practical or fit for purpose as it would 
cause confusion with allocation of the underlying assets.
Mr H has referred to the BMO fund which was held in both his ISA and SIPP 
accounts. He has said the secure message he sent on 18 June 2021 should have 
resulted in the BMO funds being sold in both the ISA and SIPP. But this didnt 
happen to the SIPP, only the ISA sale went ahead. I note the secure message sent 
on 17 June detailed the three funds held in the SIPP account and even without a 
transfer reference  which I note it did  should have been identifiable to Mr H as the 
number of units held was included as were the ISIN numbers which Mr H had been 
given during his phone conversation on 17 June.
Mr H has referred to an instruction he sent to II on 21 June. The message includes all 
of the five accounts Mr H (and his wife) were transferring from Company A to II. So, 
the one message was sent from one account and related to five different transfers for 
two different people plus one business. Several of those accounts held stocks in 
common or similar stocks and I dont think II was being unreasonable when II made 
clear in its response that it needed more of a breakdown of what investments were to 
be sold from which account plus the amount of the holding to be sold. Mr H has said 
that the ISA and SIPP teams within II should have communicated together.
But I think by now the waters had been muddied and the instruction had become 
confused. It changed from being an in specie transfer for all of the assets in April, to 
a sale of some of those assets. The message of 21 June also included an instruction 
to sell the three unsupported funds held within the SIPP. But he had already given 
that instruction on 18 June so I can understand why there was confusion about what 
action Mr H wanted as II was already in receipt of part of that instruction. And I also 
understand that because of regulatory issues the business account couldnt be 
transferred at all in any event.
I accept that the contact at II confirmed receipt of the message and that it was being 
passed onto the relevant teams. But it was after that  on 7 July  after the message 
had been fully reviewed that II responded saying it needed more information and 
effectively clearer instructions and for which account.Mr H has said if he had known he could stop and change the original in specie 
transfer request and sold to cash, he would have done. He should have been offered 
this. But I dont agree. The transfer itself was in process at this time and instructions 
had been given. So, I wouldnt have reasonably expected II to have proactively 
contacted Mr H to inform him that he could alter his instructions at any time. I just 
dont think that would have been practical or would have helped with speeding up the 
transfer process.
Mr H has said he was entitled to change his mind about the transfer. And I agree he 
was entitled to do so  they were his assets. But Mr H had already put instructions in 
place for the transfer from Company A and then given instruction on 18 June for the 
three unsupported assets plus a further instruction on 21 June  for all five of the 
accounts  two weeks later which caused confusion and needed clarification.
Mr H has said that around £206,000 was transferred on 7 July 2021 but this figure 
should have been around £467,000. He asked what the discrepancy was here. That 
amount refers to the cash proceeds of the sales of the three unsupported assets. 
And while I dont have a valuation at the July date Mr H has referred to, I do have 
one for November 2021 and that shows a value of just over £503,000 which is 
around the level that Mr H was expecting to receive so I cant see that assets are  
missing.
Mr H has referred to the SIPP cancellation notices he received dated 13 July and    
30 November and which he told us he wasnt sure what SIPP fund/s these related to. 
The 13 July notice related to the transfer from Company A which was completed on  
7 July and the 13 November notice related to the transfer from another business 
which completed on 29 November.
I concluded by saying that I didnt think that II had done anything wrong. 
Mr H didnt agree with the conclusions I had reached in my provisional decision. Ive 
prcised what he said;
The complaint had been brought due to unclear communication from II which added 
to the confusion.
The transfer dragged on until November/December and wasnt completed on 7 July 
2021 as I had said.
Secure messaging should have been the preferred method of communication and 
should have been used consistently. 
When he didnt respond to the three emails sent II should have tried a different 
method of communication. The use of the wrong email address (his sons) wasnt a 
valid excuse for the delay.
Mr H didnt recall discussing the two Aviva funds during the call of 2 June, only the 
BMO fund. While the call of 2 June might not be available others might be.
The first Mr H was aware of the three unsupported assets was on 17 June during a 
phone call.
The transfer reference number ended 969 wasnt used until 17 June 2021. Mr H 
assumed the transfer reference ending 814 referred to in secure messages was the 
reference for both his SIPP and ISA transfer.
It should have been explained to him how the transfers were to proceed plus 
progress reports. The time difference between the transfer of his SIPP and ISA should have been a lot shorter. He would have expected them to have completed 
around the same time and with collaboration.
The TR (transfer reference) numbers were used in communication without any 
reference to the ISA or SIPP transfer. Any queries to Mr H should have had clearly 
defined reference number to whether it referred to the SIPP or ISA and using the TR 
number. 
Mr H said I had confused his ISA and SIPP complaints.
The BMO fund Mr H held was common to his SIPP and ISA and the same sale 
instruction should have applied to both accounts. His instruction to sell this and the 
other two holdings was on 21 June and IIs response on 7 July was vague and 
confused.
II should have liaised with Company A as per Mr Hs instructions given on 21 June. 
The secure message of 18 May didnt have any reference on it other than valuation 
and asked Mr H to contact the counterparty which he did on 16 June. A substantial 
and specific response was needed from II.
Mr H was told his message of 21 June was passed to the case handlers dealing with 
his ISA transfer, and he wasnt contacted if there were any queries as he should 
have been. Mr H should have been invited to provide clarification if it was needed. 
His instructions were ignored.
II didnt provide me with anything further for my consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I remain of the opinion that II doesnt need to do anything more. I shall 
explain why.
While Mr H has brought several complaints, I am satisfied that I havent confused his 
complaint with the complaint he has made about his ISA. That has been dealt with under a 
separate complaint reference, and while there might have been some crossover, as the 
transfer instructions were given at the same time, I have focused on the SIPP transfer in this 
decision. 
The three unsupported assets
Ive seen various timelines from II as well as the transfer audit which is a contemporaneous 
record of IIs actions during the transfer period. Its clear that on 18 May the three 
unsupported assets were identified, and Mr H was emailed on 18 May and then again on 24 
May. Mr H called II on 2 June and the phone note II has given us says customer contacted 
me via phone and told that they will give the instructions next week. 
I am satisfied that it is more likely than not  when taking into account the previous actions 
on the account  that this referred to the three unsupported assets. I appreciate that Mr H 
doesnt recall this as being part of his discussions with II, and its unfortunate that a call 
recording isnt available, but I dont find this to be an unreasonable conclusion for me to 
reach. 
Mr H has said he didnt receive any of the emails prior to his call of 2 June so I can only 
assume that he instigated the call for another reason. But I think the recorded comment about the call makes clear that the unsupported assets were discussed, and Mr H said he 
would instruct shortly. 
So, I maintain that II didnt do anything wrong. It was made aware by Company A of the 
three unsupported assets on 18 May. It emailed Mr H via the email address that he had 
provided on the same day and then chased for a response less than a week later. And by  
Mr H advising that he would give those instructions in the call of 2 June, there was nothing 
that would lead II to think the email address he had provided was incorrect. And I cant 
ignore the fact that Mr H was most likely aware of the unsupported assets on 2 June and he 
didnt give any instruction on those assets until two weeks later on 18 June. 
Mr H then sent a secure message on 18 June  over two weeks after the call  advising that 
the three funds should be sold and moved over as cash. II sent acceptance to the ceding 
platform on the same day advising the three funds were to be transferred plus one CREST 
transfer and the remaining three funds to be sold. Company A processed trades/transfer the 
instruction on 21 June and the trades settlement was completed on 25 June. 
In the meantime, Mr H had sent via secure message different instructions on 21 June  
Customer sent in large list of instructions  which I am still of the opinion would have 
caused confusion with the transfers. That message included the three assets which it had 
already been agreed should be sold and which the ceding platform had been advised about 
on 18 June. 
And the instruction to the ceding platform given on 18 June included instruction for all of the 
other assets held within the SIPP as well. And this was all after the original instruction to 
transfer in in specie on 28 April. So, I can understand why II didnt act on the instructions 
given on 21 June as it had already sent the transfer acceptance/sale instructions to 
Company A three days earlier. The trade and settlement dates had already been agreed 
between Company A and II by the time II received Mr Hs different instructions given on     
21 June. 
I asked II about the delay between 21 June and Mr H being contacted about those 
instructions on 7 July  12 working days. It told us that there may be times of high volumes 
of emails and secure message received which, as it works on them in date and time order, 
can sometimes take longer than its standard response time. While Mr H was disappointed 
with the lack of contact sooner than 7 July Ive also borne in mind that as the transfer 
instructions had already been given by II to the ceding business on 18 June I dont think a 
quicker response by II would have made a difference as the sales/transfer process was 
already agreed between the parties and was in progress. 
The commonly held fund
Mr H has said that any instruction for the commonly held unsupported asset  the BMO fund 
 should have applied to both his SIPP account and his ISA. But I dont agree. The different 
types of account  a SIPP and ISA  could potentially hold different assets. And from 
listening to the recording of the call Mr H had with II on 17 June 2021 its clear Mr H was 
aware of the unsupported assets as these were discussed. And it was explained during that 
call that assets which are acceptable within an ISA may not be acceptable within a SIPP, so 
Im satisfied that separate instructions were needed for the two different types of account. 
Communication
Ive been provided with a correspondence timeline and can see that between 28 April and    
7 July Mr H was sent 11 emails by II which included emails about the;Important information regarding your transfer (Ref:#CS-TR-244969-ClientInfoRqd), 
Acknowledgement Email on 28 April and through to;
Important information regarding your transfer (Ref:CS-TR-244969-UT) SIPP 
Transfer Update  Transfer Complete sent on 7 July. 
So, if Mr H hadnt been receiving these emails because of the incorrect email address given, 
it may answer why Mr H complains that he wasnt being kept informed as those emails 
included transfer update information. Its clear that the TR reference is used in the headings 
of those messages and it equally may be why Mr H wasnt aware of the transfer reference  
the TR number  sooner than 17 June. 
I asked II about the use of the TR number being used and it confirmed that it didnt 
communicate via secure message about the SIPP transfer using that reference until 17 June 
further to the phone call Mr H had due to his lack of reply to previous email communications. 
It said its main communication methods for all transfers in and out is via email. However I do 
accept that in secure messages they do say If you wish to contact us the easiest way is by 
secure message.quote your Transfer Ref: . in the title of the message. But I dont think 
that supersedes the fact that II had instigated the transfer via email. 
And that wasnt IIs error. That all stemmed from Mr H providing the incorrect email in the 
first instance for which I cant find II at fault. And I remain of the opinion that it wasnt an 
unreasonable method of communication for II to have used. 
I also asked II about Mr Hs comment that TR numbers were used in communication without 
any reference to whether the message was about the ISA or SIPP transfer. It told us that 
upon the initiation of the transfers it sent Mr H an email which clearly outlined the transfer 
reference and which product it related to. It said Mr H should have been able to easily cross 
reference this as all the information was available, had the correct email been provided from 
the outset. 
So, in conclusion, Mr Hs comments about the communication with II seem to stem from the 
email address used. If that had been the correct address, I think its likely many of the issues 
Mr H is complaining about wouldnt have arisen. 
The SIPP transfer completion
Mr H has said that the SIPP transfer didnt complete on 7 July 2021. To clarify, the three 
unsupported assets were sold and settled on 25 June 2021. II subsequently received a cash 
amount of £206,084.37 on 7 July 2021 for those sales. The other assets had already been 
transferred on 28 June 2021. Theres nothing to suggest the transfer wasnt completed. And 
the email records show that II informed Mr H of this on 7 July. 
I note from the email records that Mr H was also transferring another SIPP from a different 
product provider (TR number ending 651) and that the email correspondence for that 
transfer continued through to the end of November. But I havent seen anything to evidence 
the SIPP transfer reference 969 didnt complete on 7 July. 
Taking all of the above into account I cant agree that II has done anything wrong and it 
follows that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
No doubt Mr H will be disappointed with the outcome as its clear he feels very strongly about 
his complaint and has made a lot of effort in bringing it. But Id like to assure Mr H I have 
carefully considered his submissions  and Id like to thank him for those  but I hope I have 
been able to explain the reasons for reaching the conclusion that I have. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about the transfer of his SIPP to 
Interactive Investor Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman