DRN-4417255
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about delays when they applied to re-mortgage with Clydesdale 
Bank Plc. They ask for compensation for their interest costs and a shortfall at completion.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C applied to Clydesdale, via a broker, in May 2022. They wanted to re-mortgage 
and take out additional borrowing to repay a help to buy equity loan. The mortgage didnt 
complete until early 2023. Mr and Mrs C were on their lenders standard variable rate (SVR) 
from August 2022, which they say caused financial difficulties. Mr and Mrs C also say 
Clydesdale changed lending criteria during the delays and this meant they had to make up a 
shortfall at completion.
Clydesdale said the application had taken longer than usual and offered £200. 
Our investigator said the delays related to matters outside Clydesdales control. He said 
Clydesdale hadnt treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly and its offer of £200 was fair.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Mr C said Clydesdale was responsible for the solicitor it 
appointed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy about the service provided by their broker, Clydesdale and its 
solicitors, which they say contributed to delays with their re-mortgage completing. 
I must be clear that Im only looking into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about Clydesdale here. 
Their complaint about the broker is being looked into separately. We cant look into Mr and 
Mrs Cs concerns about the actions of the solicitor. I should also explain that where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C submitted an application to Clydesdale on 20 May 2022 via a broker. The 
broker submitted supporting documents in early June 2022. A valuation was carried out on 
behalf of Clydesdale in late May 2022. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Clydesdale was responsible for delays in 
documents being submitted to support the mortgage application or unreasonably asked for 
documents to be re-submitted. It asked for Mr Cs payslips in July and again in August 2022 
because it hadnt received them. It asked for eight payslips because the mortgage 
application said Mr C was paid weekly. 
On 1 September 2022 Clydesdale said it couldnt offer a two-year rate as this wasnt 
affordable, but it could offer a five-year rate subject to further income evidence. Mr and 
Mrs C went ahead on that basis. I think Clydesdale was entitled to ask for updated payslips 
and other income evidence in September 2022, given time had passed since the application 
had started and it was concerned about affordability.
Clydesdale issued a mortgage offer in late September 2022 and re-issued a legal pack to its 
solicitors on 4 October 2022.
Clydesdale accepts that it took longer than usual to issue a mortgage offer. I dont think it 
was mainly responsible for the delays. First, it had to wait for Mr Cs payslips (which it 
chased the broker for). It then assessed the mortgage as affordable only if the product was 
changed, and this was subject to further income evidence. I dont think there was any 
unnecessary delay with it then issuing the mortgage offer and instructing its solicitors to 
complete the work required for completion. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Clydesdale was responsible for delays with 
the mortgage completing. 
It seems Mr and Mrs C expected the help to buy scheme administrator to rely on the 
valuation instructed by the lender in late May 2022. I dont know if the help to buy scheme 
administrator had said this was acceptable (the help to buy scheme rules say valuations for 
mortgage purposes arent accepted). The scheme rules also say the valuation cant be more 
than three months old. Even if the scheme administrator did agree to accept the mortgage 
valuation addressed to Clydesdale, it would have been out of date by late August 2022.
Mr C says that Clydesdale should have arranged a second valuation, after the first valuation 
became out of date for the purposes of the help to buy scheme. Clydesdale is entitled to ask 
for a valuation of the property to help it make a lending decision and assess whether the 
property is suitable security. I dont think Clydesdale had fairly to arrange or pay for a further 
valuation for the benefit of the help to buy administrator. 
The solicitor told Mr C on 11 October 2022 that the help to buy redemption statement had 
expired. The solicitor asked Mr C for the help to buy loan redemption statement in early 
November 2022. This wasnt provided to the solicitor until 12 December 2022  two months 
after the solicitor had told Mr C the previous statement had expired. 
The mortgage application asked for additional borrowing of £34,000 to consolidate the help 
to buy loan. This wasnt enough. But I dont think Clydesdale would have known this at the 
outset, or that Mr and Mrs C didnt have funds available to repay the difference.
When the shortfall was identified (by the solicitor), the broker asked if Clydesdale would lend 
more. I appreciate there were changes in the economic environment in late 2022. But 
Clydesdale had previously assessed the mortgage as just affordable with a five-year product 
(and not affordable with a two-year product). So I dont think I can fairly find that it would 
have offered a larger loan, even if the shortfall had been identified earlier. And I dont think it 
was unfair for Clydesdale to decline to increase the loan, given its concerns about 
affordability.
Clydesdale wasnt responsible for Mr Cs name being misspelt in the application. I agree that 
it didnt spot this, and it made the same error in the mortgage offer. But the broker and even 
Mr and Mrs C didnt spot the error in the mortgage offer either. The broker contacted 
Clydesdale which arranged for a corrected mortgage offer to be sent out the same day. I 
dont think this error caused delays.
Clydesdale said the application had taken longer than usual and offered £200 to Mr and 
Mrs C. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
My decision is that Clydesdale Bank PLC should pay £200 to Mr and Mrs C, as it offered to 
do (unless of course its already made the payment). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman