DRN-4195954
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa). 
What happened
In November 2022 Mr N acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Zopa. 
The car was around six years old and had travelled 56,500 miles when it was supplied to Mr 
N. The cash price of the car was £14,700. Mr N paid a deposit of £3,500, so the total amount 
financed on the agreement was £11,200 payable over 44 months.
In January 2023 Mr N complained to Zopa about the quality of his car. He said the warning 
lights had illuminated on the dashboard on a few occasions. Mr N said he brought it to a 
local garage where they carried out a vehicle health scan, which identified faults with the 
exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) sensor and diversity antenna. 
Mr N said he was told the EGR valve needed to be repaired, and provided a quotation for 
around £790 to repair all the issues. 
Zopa, arranged for an independent inspection of the car to be carried out on 22 March 2023. 
The inspection report concluded it was unable to confirm the reported faults and the vehicle 
was presented in satisfactory condition and operating to the manufacturers standard for a 
vehicle of this age and mileage.
In March 2023 Zopa issued their final response to Mr Ns complaint which they didnt uphold. 
Zopa advised as the independent inspection couldnt confirm any faults with the car, they 
wouldnt be upholding the complaint.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr N brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr N 
said he wanted his car fixed.
Having considered all the information on file, our investigator recommended that Mr Ns 
complaint should be upheld. Our investigator referred to the vehicle scan report, that Mr N 
provided, which identified two fault codes relating to the EGR sensor and the diversity 
antenna. 
Our investigator concluded that as the faults were intermittent, its likely to be the reason why 
it wasnt identified during the independent inspection. And so, he believed on balance the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr N. Our investigator recommended 
that Zopa arrange and pay for the repairs and to keep Mr N mobile or refund monthly 
payments to reflect any time he is without a vehicle. 
Zopa didnt accept our investigators recommendation and referred to the independent 
inspection which was unable to find a fault. So, they asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
Following our investigators view, Mr N raised further concerns with the wear of the tyres and 
a further fault related to the electronics throttle control. Our investigator advised Mr N that 
any new concerns would need to be raised with Zopa in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. Zopa is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that Zopa supplied Mr N with a used car that had travelled 56,500 miles. 
With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage. 
Having said that, the car was priced at around £14,700, which isnt insignificant, so I think its 
reasonable to expect it could be used without any major issues for a reasonable period of 
time.
From the information provided Im persuaded there was a fault with the cars EGR system 
and antenna. This is apparent from the vehicle health scan which identified two fault codes 
relating to the EGR sensor and diversity antenna. Having considered the car had a fault, Ive 
considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
satisfactory qualityMr N said that within a month of acquiring the car he noticed the engine management light 
was illuminated; he was told by a local garage the EGR valve was faulty along with the 
antenna. The faults were highlighted as diagnostic trouble codes on a vehicle health report.
Zopa arranged the independent inspection in March 2023 which didnt identify any of the 
issues raised by Mr N. However, Mr N advised the problem was intermittent, having 
occurred in November and then again in December 2022. He also advised the faults were 
cleared by the local garage, in addition to him replacing the battery which may have also 
cleared any fault codes. 
Although Ive seen no evidence the battery was replaced, I dont think its unreasonable with 
a car of the age and mileage of Mr Ns vehicle for a it to require a new battery. Ive also been 
given no reason to doubt what Mr N has said.
I recognise the faults werent identified by the independent inspector; however, Im 
persuaded by the vehicle health scan that a problem existed with the EGR system and the 
diversity antenna. I think its likely the intermittent nature of the issue is why it wasnt 
identified during the independent inspection.
In September 2023 Mr N provided an invoice of the repair to the EGR cooler, which Mr N 
says had fixed the issues. Mr N also told our investigator the warranty paid for the 
component, but he had to contribute £84 towards the cost of the labour. This evidence 
further persuades me that a fault existed within the EGR system. 
In his communication with our service, Mr N refers to the EGR valve as being faulty; the 
vehicle health scan refers to a faulty EGR sensor, and the invoice provided by Mr N says the 
EGR cooler was replaced. I acknowledge the different components which have been 
referred to, however I recognise a vehicles EGR system consists of a number of 
components which work together to ensure a vehicle is satisfactorily reducing its pollutant 
emissions. 
Each of the components are closely connected and so Im persuaded that any faults 
identified would need to be investigated and could relate to or have an impact on different 
parts of the system. All things considered, Im persuaded there was a problem within the 
EGR system that required a repair, and that the repair of the EGR cooler was able to fix it. 
Im persuaded that a fault exists with the diversity antenna. The fault code was identified on 
the vehicle health scan report, which Mr N also said was an intermittent issue. I 
acknowledge the independent inspection hadnt identified it, but Im persuaded by the 
evidence provided that the problem existed, and that the intermittent nature of it was the 
likely reason it hadnt been identified during the inspection. 
I acknowledge there are likely to be issues identified with a vehicle that has the age and 
mileage of Mr Ns, however, on a car priced at around £14,700 I think its reasonable to 
expect the entertainment unit, which the diversity antenna is a key component, to be 
functioning and in working order. As Ive seen evidence of the issues within three months of 
the car being supplied to Mr N, Im satisfied the problem was present or developing at the 
point of supply to the extent which rendered the car of unsatisfactory quality. And so Zopa 
will need to put things right for Mr N.
In their view, our investigator recommended Zopa pay for repairs to identify the root cause of 
the fault codes, however, as Mr N has confirmed the EGR issue has been repaired and that 
he paid £84 for the labour, I think its reasonable that Zopa reimburse this to him with 8% 
simple interest. In addition, I acknowledge Mr N provided a quotation in February 2023, for £220.18 to have 
the problem with the antenna repaired. Im not aware if that quotation is still valid, and Ive 
been given no reason to think it was unreasonable. So, given Ive concluded this fault was 
also present at the point of supply, Ill be instructing Zopa to pay for the repairs to the 
antenna also. Mr N may decide to revisit that quotation, if its still available.
As my redress determination differs from the investigators view (in light of the repairs that 
Mr N had carried out on the EGR), I invited Zopa to make any further comments in light of 
the difference. Zopa responded to request a copy of the final decision so they could 
remediate in line with my proposed outcome. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Zopa Bank Limited to:
Cover the cost of repairs to the diversity antenna as identified on the vehicle health 
scan
Reimburse to Mr N £84 for the cost of the labour for the repair of the EGR system
Pay 8% yearly simple interest on the reimbursement calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman