DRN-3112340
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with the information provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
when opening a savings account. 
What happened
In July 2019 Ms P went into an RBS branch and opened a savings account. Ms P was 
provided with an information sheet about her savings account. This explained Balance 
grows by at least £50 a month; regular saving condition is met. The definition of month was 
not explained on the same page. 
Ms P noticed that she hadnt been paid any interest for the month of August 2020. Ms P had 
withdrawn £80 from her account on 31 July 2020. She had then deposited £50 into her 
account on 17 August, and had not made any withdrawals that month. 
Ms P complained to RBS. RBS responded to Ms Ps complaint on 10 March 2021 saying:
-at close of business on 30 July 2020 your balance was £6,407.85, at the close of 
business on 28 August 2020 your balance was £6,383.20. As such your balance had 
not grown by £50.00 and therefore did not qualify for interest to be paid. 
-the terms of the Savings Builder account [state] that the balance on your account 
must grow by a minimum of £50.00 by the second last working day of the month. As 
such, a single interest period would run from the close of business on the second last 
working day of one month, to the close of business on the second last day of the 
following month.
Unhappy with this response, Ms P transferred her savings to another bank, and brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Ms P was unhappy that interest had not 
been paid for August, and that the definition of month had not been clearly brought to her 
attention at the time of opening the savings account. 
RBS provided a copy of the following information to this service in support of their position 
on the complaint:
-The following exclusions apply to the Savings Builder account:
Earning interest is dependent on growing your balance by at least £50 by the second 
last working day of each month.
Growing your balance means your savings has to be at least £50 higher than the 
previous month. It is okay to withdraw from the account, but if the balance doesnt 
grow by at least £50 by the second last working day of the month then no interest will 
be earned for that month.
RBS also included an information sheet dated 29 July 2021. This explained To earn interest, 
make sure you grow your balance by £50 or more by the second last business day of each 
month. If you dont manage this in a particular month, you wont earn interest that month. We 
suggest any regular payments are received into the account by the 25th of each month to 
reduce any chance of not qualifying for interest. 
The investigator found that RBS hadnt clearly explained the exclusions for the savings 
account, or the definition of when monthly payments would need to be made in order to 
qualify for interest to be earned any given month, at the time that Ms P had opened her 
account in 2019. It was therefore reasonable for Ms P to believe that RBS were using a 
calendar month to determine whether payments had been made on time to qualify for 
interest to be earned. 
The investigator recommended RBS credit Ms Ps account with £3.95 (representing the 
interest that wouldve been earned for the month of August 2020), plus 8% interest from the 
date it should have been paid until the date of settlement; send Ms P an up to date copy of 
the savings information sheet and account terms by post as shed requested; and pay Ms P 
£50 additional compensation for the distress caused by the lack of clear information.  
RBS agreed with this recommendation to put things right. Ms P rejected these findings 
saying Your compensation award of £50 is derisory. It is again strong evidence that you are 
biased in favour of RBS. The sum needs to be at least £200.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I broadly agree with the investigators findings and outcome 
on this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Ms P but I 
hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that Ms P made a withdrawal from her savings account on 31 July. She later 
deposited £50 into her savings account on 17 August, and made no withdrawals that month. 
The information RBS has provided to this service clearly explains the exclusions for the 
savings account, including Growing your balance means your savings has to be at least 
£50 higher than the previous month. It is okay to withdraw from the account, but if the 
balance doesnt grow by at least £50 by the second last working day of the month then no 
interest will be earned for that month. 
But I cant see that this information was clearly presented in any of the hard copies of 
information provided to Ms P at the time she opened her account. So I dont think its fair for 
RBS to rely on this, and say that Ms P was clearly made aware of the account exclusions, 
and qualifying criteria. 
Ms P has provided evidence of the information she was given when she opened her account 
in July 2019. The information provided to this service about what would constitute a growing 
balance and when payment would need to be made by, was not as clearly defined in the 
information sheet Ms P has provided. The information sheet provided by Ms P simply says 
Balance grows by at least £50 a month; regular saving condition is met. In the absence of 
any further clarification on the same page, I can see why Ms P understood this to be a 
calendar month. Because of this, Im in agreement with the investigator that fair compensation should reflect 
the interest Ms P wouldve earned for August 2020, plus interest at 8% simple on this 
amount to reflect the time Ms P has been out of pocket for this amount. 
Ms P disagrees with the £50 compensation recommended by the investigator in recognition 
of the impact on her for what went wrong. I appreciate the time and effort Ms P has put into 
trying to resolve things with RBS. Ms P feels strongly that higher compensation would reflect 
the severity of RBS wrongdoing on this complaint. 
I have carefully considered Ms Ps comments, and I appreciate this has been a very 
upsetting time for her. Although I think RBS couldve handled things better, I think £50 is fair 
and reasonable compensation in recognition of whats happened, and the impact this had 
had on Ms P. 
This recognises RBS couldve done more to clearly inform Ms P about the terms and 
conditions of her account, specifically in respect of qualifying for interest each month. The 
compensation amount of £50 also recognises the other actions RBS is being directed to take 
to put Ms P back into the position she wouldve been in had interest been paid for August 
2020 in the first place. 
Putting things right
In order to resolve this complaint RBS is directed to:
1. Pay Ms P the interest that wouldve been earned for August 2020; 
2. Add interest to (1) at 8% simple from the date it should have been paid until the 
date of settlement; 
3. Send Ms P by post an up to date copy of the savings information sheet and 
account terms and conditions; and
4. Pay Ms P £50 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shes experienced 
and impact on her.  
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman