DRN-4053873
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, who Ill call BMWFS.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Theres no longer a dispute about whether this car has been of satisfactory quality. BMWFS 
have accepted that and have offered to allow Mr D to reject the vehicle and to end his 
finance agreement with them. Theyve also offered to refund his deposit. 
Putting things right
Id agree that there is sufficient evidence to suggest this car hasnt been of satisfactory 
quality. Theres been a persistent rattling despite several attempts to repair the car. 
In those circumstances, this Service would usually tell the business to end the agreement 
and refund any payments made less a deduction for the use the consumer has had from the 
vehicle. BMWFS have suggested they should retain all of the finance instalments Mr D has 
paid because hes had fair use of the car. Whilst Mr D has been able to complete a mileage 
broadly in line with that allowed under the contract, I think his use of the car has been 
impaired by the persistent noise hes had to experience. I think BMWFS should retain all but 
the first two finance instalments in respect of fair usage, and they should pay interest on the 
two they are refunding as Mr D has been deprived of that money.
BMWFS have agreed to refund the deposit that Mr D paid. But they should also pay interest 
on that refund as Mr D has been deprived of his deposit, whilst hes been funding a car that 
has been of unsatisfactory quality.
I think Mr D has experienced distress and inconvenience here too. Hes had to take the car 
back to the dealership on several occasions and has had to escalate his complaint to this 
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances, I think 
BMWFS should pay him £400 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
Allow Mr D to reject the car and end the finance agreement if they havent already 
done so.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr D if they havent already done so.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the first two monthly finance instalments in respect of loss of enjoyment and 
impaired use. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr D £400 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ds credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman