DRN-1741386
The complaint
Mr N complains that National Westminster Bank plc failed to make a payment from his 
account after hed authorised the payment. He also complains about poor service he 
received from National Westminster Bank plc.
What happened
Mr N had a current account with NatWest. He says he wanted to use the card to make a 
payment to his credit card company in September 2019. He was on the credit card 
companys website and followed the on screen instructions. He was presented with a screen 
which had the NatWest logo on it and was told to enter a one time passcode which was sent 
to his mobile phone. He entered the code and received an onscreen message which said, 
payment successful.
A few days later Mr N says he received a message from his credit card company which said 
hed missed a payment. So, he tried to make the payment again using the same process. He 
received an on screen message saying payment successful but no payment was made.
Mr N says his credit file has been impacted as a result of whats happened, and hes 
incurred charges and interest. He contacted NatWest. He says that the first person he spoke 
to was rude and unhelpful. He then spoke to someone else. He says NatWest told him the 
problem might have been caused by a technical fault related to PSD2 3D Secure text 
message authorisation changes. He complained to NatWest about what had happened.
NatWest investigated his complaint. It said it couldnt find any request to authorise any 
payments to the credit card company in September. So, it said it hadnt made any errors. It 
did accept that its service couldve been better and it paid Mr N £30 by way of 
compensation. It also agreed to pay him £20 as a goodwill gesture towards any late payment 
fees hed incurred. But it didnt agree that it was responsible for the payment not being 
made. 
Mr N wasnt satisfied with this response. So, he complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint. She said that she hadnt seen any evidence of any authorised, 
attempted or declined transactions in favour of the credit card company in September. She 
said that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong. She thought that £50 (in total) was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the poor service Mr N had received. So, she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr N didnt agree. He said hed complained to the credit card company and it had told him 
NatWest was at fault. He says changes were made for PSD2 without having been properly 
tested and the integration between NatWest and the credit card company broke down as a 
result. 
Because Mr N didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just point out that Ive only considered whether NatWest was responsible for 
failing to deal with a request to make a payment out of Mr Ns debit card. Mr N has also 
complained about the credit card company involved and that matter has been dealt with 
separately.
Ive looked at the payment process that was used in this case. I can see that Mr N entered 
his debit card details on the credit card companys website. His card was registered with 
Verified by Visa. This is a service which aims to make online transactions secure. 
NatWest says that Verified by Visa controls the card authentication process. This includes 
the screens that Mr N wouldve seen after he entered his card details on the credit card 
website. NatWest says that its system did generate the passcode that was sent to Mr N. But 
it says it didnt receive a payment request. 
Ive examined the audit trail which NatWest has provided. It provides details of every 
payment request and attempted payment request using the debit card. I cannot see any 
payment request for either of the payments to the credit card company which Mr N says he 
attempted in September 2019. So, although I do not doubt Mr N when he says he attempted 
to make these payments, I have no evidence to say that NatWest received the payment 
requests. 
NatWest has also confirmed that it has no record of any technical problems with its systems 
on the dates in question. And, in the circumstances, I dont have any evidence to say that 
there was any technical fault on the part of NatWest which prevented the payment requests 
reaching it.
I understand this mustve been frustrating for Mr N especially when his credit card company 
added charges to his account for late payments. But, having considered everything, Im 
satisfied that NatWest didnt receive either of the payment requests. So, I dont think it did 
anything wrong when it didnt make the payments.
Ive also considered the compensation which NatWest paid to Mr N. I agree with our 
investigator that £50 was fair and reasonable compensation for the poor service he received. 
So, I dont require NatWest to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against National Westminster 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman