DRN-3330930
The complaint
Mr G complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) treated him unfairly when he 
struggled to meet repayments, due to the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr G was supplied a car through hire purchase agreement with Startline. 
Under the terms of the agreement Mr G was due to repay £25,777 over 60 months; with 59 
monthly instalments of £429.45 followed by the final payment of £439.45. 
In September 2019 Mr G was involved in an accident which led to the car being written off. 
Mr Gs insurers paid £11,070.29 towards the balance on his agreement. The shortfall was 
£10,666.86, Startline agreed a settlement quote of £6,267.50 to be paid within 30 days. In 
December 2019 Startline agreed to extend the repayment period, with an initial payment of 
£430, then three payments of £1,750 in January, February and March and a final payment of 
£596.50 in April 2020. Mr G made the initial December 2019 payment and in January 2020 
Mr G contacted Startline to request that he make the lower £596.50 payment in January, 
followed by three payments of £1,750, as he was having some difficulties and had an 
unexpected bill, Startline agreed to this. 
In February 2020 Mr G contacted Startline again, he wanted to make a reduced payment of 
£1,250. Startline said Mr G needed to stick to the agreed arrangement and pay £1,750 or his 
account would be defaulted. Mr G made the agreed payment. Startline made a number of 
attempts to contact Mr G about his payments, but no payments were received in March or 
April 2020. In May 2020 Startline wrote to Mr G to advise the total outstanding balance of 
£10,666.86 was now due as the payment arrangement had failed, and a default was placed 
on Mr Gs credit file. 
Mr G complained to Startline, he was unhappy he was being asked to pay an extra £6,000. 
He explained he was experiencing financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he 
wanted to agree another repayment plan to pay the reduced settlement figure. Startline did 
not uphold Mr Gs complaint, but it agreed to accept payment of the outstanding reduced 
settlement balance of £3,491 over three monthly payments of £1163.67 from August 2020. 
Mr G maintained this payment arrangement and cleared the outstanding balance in October 
2020.
Unable to resolve his complaint, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. He is unhappy 
Startline refused to accept his request to amend the payment arrangement in February 
2020, he wants Startline to remove the default from his credit file. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint, he didnt think Startline had treated Mr G fairly when he approached it in 
February 2020, which he thought led to a breakdown in the communication and 
subsequently Mr G not making any payments. To put things right he recommended Startline 
remove the default from Mr Gs credit file.
Startline disagreed, in summary it said it treated Mr G fairly when he asked to make an initial 
reduced payment in January 2020. It said Mr G had not made it aware that he was in 
financial difficulties until May 2020 and in response it had agreed to accept the remaining 
reduced settlement, despite the contractual balance of £10,666.86 being due. Startline said 
it had a responsibility to accurately record that Mr G did not maintain the initial payment 
arrangement, so didnt agree to remove the default it had recorded. Startline requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G acquired the car using a regulated hire purchase agreement. And our service is able to 
consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
When considering what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken account of the 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Mr G has told us he began experiencing financial difficulties as early as the end of January 
2020, as his firm was impacted by the outbreak of Covid-19 in China and their early 
lockdown. Mr G explained that his work was performance related and he was no longer 
getting his bonuses, a number of people left his department and he also had an unexpected 
bill. Mr G said that when he approached Startline in February 2020 he tried to explain his 
situation, but the adviser was unsympathetic and simply said his account would be defaulted 
if he didnt stick to the agreed plan.
I can see from the contact notes Mr G contacted Startline on 31 January 2020 and explained 
he had an unexpected bill and 4 people had left his firm. He asked if he could make the 
smaller payment of £596.50 followed by three monthly repayments of £1,750. Startline 
agreed to this but noted it would not consider reducing any further payments. On 28 
February 2020 Mr G contacted Startline again this time to request he reduce the £1,750 
agreed payment to £1,250. There are no notes regarding why Mr G was requesting the 
reduced payments, but its recorded that Mr G was told he needed to stick to the 
arrangement, or his account would be defaulted. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) states 
a firm must treat customers in default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.  CONC 7.3.5 gives examples of treating customers with forbearance, 
including considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest, 
deferring payment of arrears or accepting reduced payments for reasonable period. Having 
considered the relevant guidance, I think Startline did treat Mr G with forbearance in January 
2020 when he first advised it about his financial difficulties, and it agreed to accept the initial 
smaller payment of £596.50. 
However, I dont think Startline treated Mr G fairly when he approached it again in February 
2020. It is clear from the contact notes Mr G had told Startline about the difficulties he was 
having at the end of January 2020, and whilst there is nothing specific to indicate in the 
notes that Mr G referred to financial difficulties again in February 2020, I think it would have 
been reasonable for Startline to enquire about Mr Gs circumstances to understand why he 
wanted to make a reduced payment and ascertain whether he had recovered from the 
financial difficulties he told them about in January 2020. But Ive seen nothing to indicate 
Startline considered Mr Gs circumstances. And from Mr Gs testimony he had a difficult call 
with the advisor in February 2020, who he didnt feel was sympathetic nor interested in his 
circumstances. Startline made a number of attempts to contact Mr G about his arrears between March and 
May 2020 , and whilst I appreciate Mr G had a difficult call with the adviser in February 2020, 
it was his responsibility to keep Startline updated about his circumstances and ultimately his 
lack of communication with Startline did not help the situation, he stopped making payments 
and Startline defaulted Mr Gs account. 
I can see that Mr G did get in touch with Startline in May 2020, when he explained he was 
experiencing financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic and had been furloughed. 
Startline subsequently agreed to accept payment of the outstanding settlement balance over 
three monthly payments of £1163.67 from August 2020. And Mr G maintained this payment 
plan. I think this response was reasonable and in line with the relevant FCA Motor finance 
agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms April 2020.
Putting things right
I dont think Startline treated Mr G fairly when he requested to make a reduced payment in 
February 2020. Mr G was able to maintain the lower monthly repayment plan agreed in July 
2020 and I think that if Startline had sought to understand Mr Gs circumstances when he 
approached it in February 2020 he would have been able to maintain a lower monthly 
repayment plan based on what he could afford, at the time. And had this been agreed in 
February 2020, I think Mr G would have cleared the balance earlier and his account would 
not have been defaulted. Because of this I think it is fair for Startline to remove the default 
recorded on Mr Gs credit file and mark the agreement as settled. 
 
Ive also taking into account that following the call with Startline in February 2020 Mr G 
stopped engaging with Startline and chose to withhold payments, and whilst I accept Mr G 
would have been frustrated by the call he had with Startline in February 2020, during what 
would have been a difficult and uncertain time, it was his responsibility to engage with 
Startline and maintain payment. Because of this, I will not be asking Startline to pay Mr G 
any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Gs complaint and I direct 
Startline Motor Finance Limited to mark the agreement as settled and remove the default 
recorded on Mr Gs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman