DRN-3786928
The complaint
Mr K complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) tampered with documentation 
relating to his student loans. 
What happened
Mr K complained to Erudio about a number of issues about the deferment and repayment of 
his student loans that were taken out between 1994 and 1998. 
On 18 March 2020, Erudio issued a final response letter in which most of Mr Ks complaint 
points were dealt with. However, it did not deal with one matter raised by Mr K in which he 
alleged Erudio had tampered with documentation that related to him. 
Effectively, in April 2019, Erudio had provided to Mr K a copy of a document dated 31 
August 1996 bearing an address for a property at which he did not live until 14 years later. 
Mr K said the document Erudio provided couldnt have been a genuine copy of the document 
it purported to be. 
Erudio issued a further final response letter on 7 January 2021 in which it apologised for not 
dealing with Mr Ks complaint about the documentation sooner. It said that although the 
document in question was dated 31 August 1996, it formed part of a full statement of Mr Ks 
account that was generated on 10 April 2019. It said the document bearing the date of 31 
August 1996 was not an exact copy of that document. Erudio did offer to pay £100 to Mr K 
because it did not respond to this part of the complaint when it should have done. 
Mr K did not accept Erudios explanation. He complained to this service about the matters 
arising from the final response letters issued on 18 March 2020 and 7 January 2021. Erudio 
did not consent to this service considering the complaint about the issues dealt with in its 
final response letter of 18 March 2020. And an ombudsman decided that we couldnt 
consider those issues as Mr K had complained too late. 
With that in mind, our investigator looked at the complaint about the document dated 31 
August 1996. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld and said that the document had 
not been fraudulently produced. He recognised that Mr K was concerned for a number of 
months as to the authenticity of the document in question, which was made worse by Erudio 
not answering his complaint quickly. Our investigator thought the £100 Erudio had offered to 
pay Mr K was a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Mr K did not accept our investigators view, so the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
Looking at the document in question dated 31 August 1996, I can see it does not bear the 
address of the property at which Mr K lived in 1996. However, Erudio told us that paper 
copies of these statements were not retained. Rather, the data was retained electronically. 
The document was reproduced when copies of statements were provided to Mr K on 10 April 
2019.  Thats why the document showed Mr Ks most recent address. I dont consider it 
unusual for Erudio not to keep a paper copy or an exact copy of such a statement if it held 
the data electronically. 
Ive considered whether the information contained within the disputed document is accurate. 
Ive seen what appear to be an exact copies of Mr Ks credit agreements from the period in 
question. The first was signed by Mr K on 8 June 1995 for an amount of £450. I can see the 
disputed statement shows an amount was advanced for £450 on 15 June 1995. The 
disputed statement shows a further advance of £900 on 27 November 1995. I have also 
seen a credit agreement signed by Mr K on 17 November 1995 for the amount of £900. Im 
satisfied the disputed document accurately reflects the loans that were taken out by Mr K at 
that time. 
The disputed document also shows several monthly interest charges. Looking at the interest 
rate stated on the credit agreement, the monthly interest charges are in line with what I 
would expect. Apart from the address being incorrect, it seems to me that the information 
contained in the disputed document is broadly accurate. 
Having considered all of the evidence, Im satisfied that for the above reasons, the document 
was not produced with the intention to mislead, nor was it tampered with by Erudio. It was 
not purported to be an exact copy of the original document, Rather, it was reproduced using 
accurate electronically stored data. 
That said, I can see that Mr K did raise questions about this document that were not 
answered by Erudio for many months. I can see why that delay would have added to Mr Ks 
concern and confusion about this issue. Erudio offered to pay £100 to compensate Mr K for 
its delay in that regard. And I agree with our investigator that this is a fair way to settle the 
complaint. Erudio will need to arrange to pay this £100 to Mr K if it has not already done so. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Erudio Student Loans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman