DRN-2165818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unreasonably 
declined a claim made on their home insurance policy. They have also complained that 
Aviva didnt tell them of health risks identified when a loss adjuster inspected the damage to 
the property and that there were unreasonable delays and poor communication during the 
claim.
What happened
After a period of persistent rainfall in August 2019, Mr and Mrs M noticed water dripping from 
a ceiling. They removed a suspended ceiling and noticed there was water damage and 
mould.
Mr and Mrs M arranged for a local contractor to visit the property the following day and he 
reported no problems with the roof. After a discussion with Mr and Mrs M, in which Aviva 
was told Mrs M was pregnant and there was a young child living at the house, Aviva 
instructed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. 
The loss adjuster contacted Mr and Mrs M the next day and attended the property by 
appointment two days later. 
The loss adjuster reported to Mr and Mrs M the following day that the claim had been 
repudiated because Aviva considered the damage wasnt covered by their policy. 
Mrs M spoke with Aviva to discuss the claim and said she would send photographs of the 
damage for Aviva to re-consider. Aviva agreed to review the photographs and call Mrs M 
back. Aviva then called Mr M two days later and left a voicemail message when there was 
no answer.
After Mrs M chased Aviva, they then called Mrs M the following day and apologised for 
calling Mr M in error the previous day. Aviva discussed the claim with Mrs M and confirmed 
that it considered the damage wasnt caused by a storm and was therefore not covered 
under the storm damage section of the policy, or any other sections.
Later, when Mr and Mrs M discussed the repairs with another contractor they instructed, the 
contractor told them the property was unsafe to occupy because of the presence of toxic 
mould. Mr and Mrs M immediately decided to move out of the house, considering the risk to 
Mrs M and their young child, until the repairs were completed.
Mr and Mrs M raised the complaint about Avivas failure to tell them about the health risks of 
the mould with this service when they raised a complaint about the other matters. The 
investigator invited Aviva to provide a response to the mould issue as they hadnt had the 
chance to respond previously. Aviva said they didnt consider the mould made the property 
uninhabitable, and their loss adjuster had told Mr and Mrs M they should get the issue sorted 
as soon as possible.
Aviva didnt uphold any of the complaints made by Mr and Mrs M.
After investigating the complaint, the investigator considered Aviva acted reasonably in 
declining the claim as there wasnt enough evidence to say the storm caused the damage or 
that the water ingress had been accidental. The investigator considered Aviva acted 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. The investigator also 
acknowledged that, although there were some delays in Aviva contacting Mr and Mrs M, he 
didnt think the delays were enough to be considered poor service.
The investigator thought the mould was a long-standing issue. But because the suspended 
ceiling had been removed, and the loss adjuster had seen the mould, he felt that Aviva 
shouldve told Mr and Mrs M about the risks of exposure. And that Aviva should pay Mr and 
Mrs M £150.00 for the additional worry they experienced when their contractor later told 
them of the risk.
Aviva didnt accept the views of the investigator and said that the loss adjuster had told Mr 
and Mrs M to get the work done as soon as possible, and this was reasonable. Aviva 
requested an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
declining the claim
When I consider whether an insurer can decline a claim, I look at what the policy says. In 
this case, Avivas policy defines a storm as an unusual weather event with persistent high 
winds usually associated with rain, thunder, lightning or snow. Aviva has stated that in their 
opinion there was no storm but reports that there was heavy and persistent rainfall shortly 
before Mr and Mrs M made their claim. The loss adjusters report said there was a wet 
storm. 
It seems reasonable for me to conclude that there was a storm, as defined in the policy. So, I 
will now consider whether Mr and Mrs M have shown the storm caused the damage.
On the day of the claim, Aviva records Mr and Mrs M told them there was a skylight they had 
seen dripping the previous night and it was possible that this led to water lying between the 
ceiling and the suspended ceiling. In respect of the skylight, the report from the loss adjuster 
said it was a possible source of the water coming into the property, but the surrounding area 
was dry. The report suggested there may also be other reasons for water coming into the 
room. These were listed as a secret gutter behind the roof, and cracking to the rear render.
The conclusion of the loss adjuster was that the cause of the damage was Ingress [of water] 
from externals, exact area to be confirmed by {policyholder} The loss adjuster also went on 
to explain that although there were storm conditions at the time, the internal damage was 
clearly not from a single event. The presence of mould in the area between the suspended 
ceiling and the ceiling isnt disputed by Mr and Mrs M, the loss adjuster or Aviva. It therefore 
seems reasonable for me to conclude that Avivas assessment that a storm didnt cause the 
damage was a fair one under the circumstances.
Having decided that the claim was not caused by a storm I shall now consider whether the 
damage is covered under any other part of the policy. I dont think the damage was caused 
by an escape of water as there is no evidence in the report that this is the case. The loss 
adjuster considered the damage was caused by water entering the property. And the 
accidental damage section of the policy excludes water entering the home. So, I dont think 
the claim is covered under this part of the policy either.Taking these issues into account, I think the decision of Aviva to repudiate the claim was a 
fair and reasonable one.
customer service
There were times when Aviva couldve better dealt with the contact their loss adjuster had 
with Mr and Mrs M. However, I dont think the service fell below a reasonable standard. 
Aviva sent a loss adjuster to assess the damage within four days of the matter being 
reported as a claim. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M are disappointed that the loss adjuster 
arranged for a local joiner to carry out the assessment, but its not unusual for this work to be 
contracted out to a locally appointed representative.
The loss adjuster told Mr and Mrs M that Aviva had repudiated the claim, and the reasons 
why. There were then some more calls between Aviva, the loss adjuster and Mr and Mrs M 
where this decision was discussed. I can see that on one occasion Aviva called Mr M 
instead of Mrs M. But I can see that Aviva apologised to Mrs M when it spoke to her the 
following day. I think that was reasonable.
I empathise with Mr and Mrs M and accept that it would have been frustrating that contact 
wasnt as good as it couldve been, but I dont think the service could reasonably be 
considered poor. 
lack of advice about the risk of mould
In this regard I am satisfied the loss adjuster who visited Mr and Mrs Ms home saw the 
mould as he commented on it in his report, and Mr and Mrs M have told us they removed the 
panel before they called Aviva. I have also seen that the instruction from Aviva made the 
loss adjuster aware that Mrs M was pregnant and there was a young child in the house.
The report provided by the loss adjuster has a section for Health and Safety considerations, 
and a tick box in the Substances section that says Mould. Neither of these sections were 
completed by the loss adjuster. Aviva says the part of the form was for internal use only and 
wasnt completed because the claim had been repudiated. And they werent sending 
workers back to the property. Mr and Mrs M say this is evidence Aviva knew there were 
health risks related to mould but failed to provide reasonable advice about the risks to 
pregnant mothers and young children.
Aviva said they dont agree their contractors are responsible to advise the insured on 
existing health issues within their home. And that Mr and Mrs M had been exposed to the 
mould for several months before its involvement with no adverse effects. Aviva said the 
contractor acted reasonably in telling Mr and Mrs M to get the damage fixed as soon as 
possible. Aviva added that the Health and Safety part of the form referred to risks to its 
contractors and not for the insured.
The mould was only exposed the day after the storm. So, while I appreciate the mould may 
have been present for several months before this happened, I dont agree with Aviva when 
they say Mr and Mrs M had been exposed to the mould for a prolonged time with no adverse 
impact on their health. I think that once the panels were removed and the mould exposed it 
became a new health issue. 
I can consider this as an ancillary service to the claim process. The failure of Aviva to tell Mr 
and Mrs M of the potential new health risk caused them some anxiety as they thought they 
had been exposed to a health risk longer than was necessary. Aviva couldve avoided this. Aviva have provided information from the NHS about the potential negative effects of 
inhaling mould spores, particularly for pregnant women and young children. Having provided 
the NHS information, it seems reasonable that Aviva wouldve been aware of the potential 
risks to Mr and Mrs M, but didnt tell them. I appreciate the loss adjuster told Mr and Mrs M 
that they should get the damage fixed as soon as possible, but I dont think this is enough in 
this case. And I have decided that simply telling Mr and Mrs M to get the work done as 
quickly as possible wasnt what I would expect in these circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs M £150.00 to recognise the anxiety they caused Mr and Mrs M when they 
didnt tell them about the health implications of the mould.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman