DRN-3721449
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) misled them about 
being able to offer them a consumer buy to let mortgage. They had to apply for a mortgage 
elsewhere and paid an early repayment charge (ERC) to Halifax. Theyd like it to refund the 
ERC and pay compensation.
What happened
Ms M contacted Halifax about making changes to her mortgage, which was in joint names. 
Ms M wanted to transfer the mortgage into her sole name. She said this was for tax reasons, 
as they intended to let out the property. Halifax declined. Ms M says the questions asked by 
Halifax were excessive and her answers werent believed. She says a man wouldnt have 
been asked these questions. Ms M asks that Halifax pays compensation and waives or 
refunds the ERC so she can re-mortgage with a lender that will allow her to let the property.
Our investigator said while Halifax had incorrectly suggested it might agree to the changes 
Ms M requested, this wasnt the reason Mr M and Ms M paid an ERC. They paid an ERC 
because they re-mortgaged with another lender. They had to do this if they wanted to let out 
the property. Our investigator said the £100 paid by Halifax for upset caused was fair.
Our investigator said Halifax asked questions to understand what Ms M wanted to do. It 
followed its policy when making its decision, which was based on the information provided 
and would be the same for male or female customers.
Ms M said it seemed Halifax would only consider transferring the mortgage into her sole 
name if she was separating from her husband. She said this was discrimination on the basis 
of her sex and being married, and she said Halifax would have agreed the requests if theyd 
been made by her husband. She said Halifax could have given them consent to let the 
property which wouldnt have required a new mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Ms M had a joint mortgage with Halifax. Ms M contacted Halifax on 29 April 2022 to 
ask about making changes to their mortgage. Ive listened to recordings of Ms Ms calls with 
Halifax.
Ms M wanted to transfer the mortgage into her sole name. Halifax said it couldnt agree to 
this unless Mr M moved out of the property. Ms M said this wasnt a problem as Mr M was 
looking for a property for them to live in and would apply for a mortgage in his sole name. 
Ms M said they intended to let the security property. She told Halifax they wanted to transfer 
their joint mortgage into her sole name for tax reasons, to reduce their income tax when they 
received rental income from the property. 
Halifax said the circumstances meant Ms Ms request for consent to let would be treated as 
an application for a consumer buy to let mortgage, which it didnt offer.
Ms M said she still wanted to transfer the mortgage into her sole name. She said she wasnt 
asking for consent to let and just wanted the mortgage in her sole name while she lived there 
with the children. She said they didnt intend to let the property immediately, and might not 
do so for some time  she said it could be five years. 
Halifax said it couldnt take Mr M off the joint mortgage if he was living in the property. Ms M 
said Mr M was away working a lot and didnt need to live at home. She said he could move 
out and live with his parents. Ultimately though, Halifax wasnt prepared to transfer the 
mortgage into Ms Ms sole name to reduce Mr and Ms Ms tax if she let the property, having 
already told her it didnt offer consumer buy to let mortgages and she didnt meet criteria for 
consent to let. 
Ms M also said they wanted to take Mr M off the mortgage as he was looking for a property 
and intended to apply for a mortgage in his sole name. During calls with the complaints team 
on 10 and 11 May 2022, Ms M said she needed an outcome to her complaint urgently. She 
said she needed the mortgage in her sole name because Mr M had found a house to buy.
Did Halifax treat Mr and Mrs M fairly?
Mr and Ms M wanted to transfer their joint mortgage into Ms Ms sole name. Rules on 
mortgage regulation require Halifax to check the mortgage is affordable for the sole applicant 
before agreeing to this, which means completing an application process. But even if the 
application meets affordability, this doesnt mean Halifax has to agree to it. Id expect it to 
consider the request fairly and in accordance with its process and criteria.
While Mr and Ms M had a joint mortgage Halifax could ask both or either of them to repay it. 
If it transferred the mortgage into Ms Ms name, it could only ask Ms M for payment  a less 
favourable position for Halifax. Nonetheless, Halifax does allow joint mortgages to be 
transferred into a sole name if its criteria are met. One requirement is that the person being 
taken off the mortgage no longer lives in the property. Halifax isnt saying it would certainly 
transfer the mortgage into Ms Ms sole name if Mr M moved out, only that this was one of the 
criteria they had to meet. I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to tell Ms M that this was a 
requirement and check with her that this was what was happening. 
I think its fair for Halifax to take into account the reason for Ms Ms request. The reason she 
gave was to reduce income tax on future rental income from the property. This wasnt 
relevant unless she let the property  and Halifax had already said this wasnt something it 
could consent to. 
Mr and Ms M wanted to arrange their financial affairs, and this included the mortgage being 
in Ms Ms sole name and letting the property. But Halifax didnt have to agree to this, and I 
dont think it was unfair for Halifax to decline Ms Ms requests.
Ms M says Halifax didnt explain its decision, and says she was treated differently because 
she was female. The evidence doesnt support this. I think Halifax considered Ms Ms 
requests fairly and in accordance with its criteria. Halifax explained its decision, albeit Ms M 
didnt agree. Ms M says she was upset by some of the questions asked by Halifax. She says she felt the 
reasons she gave werent good enough and she had to give another reason for what she 
wanted  such as saying she was getting divorced. Having listened to the calls, I dont think 
Halifax suggested Ms M change her story to fit with its criteria. Halifax asked Ms M to explain 
her plans and the reasons for the changes she wanted. It was for Halifax to decide whether 
this met its criteria. I think the questions it asked were reasonably necessary to establish 
what Mr and Ms M intended to do. 
Halifax said it should have told Ms M it couldnt do what she wanted when she contacted it 
on 29 April 2022. This would have avoided the upset Ms M felt at being asked about their 
plans when she contacted Halifax again on 5 May 2022, and was told it wouldnt agree to the 
changes. I think £100 paid by Halifax is fair and reasonable compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience caused. 
Halifax issued an agreement in principle to Ms M on 29 April 2022. This wasnt a mortgage 
offer, just a guide as to the amount Ms M could borrow. As this was less than the 
outstanding mortgage balance, Ms M made a lump sum payment into the mortgage account 
to reduce the balance. I dont think Halifax was responsible for Ms M making this payment 
before shed received an offer to re-mortgage in her sole name, or even gone through the 
application process. As Mr and Ms M repaid the mortgage soon after, I cant see that this 
caused any financial loss.
Ms M wasnt happy with Halifaxs decision. She continued the discussion about transferring 
the mortgage into her sole name, and raised a complaint. Ms M was entitled to make a 
complaint, and I appreciate she spent time on calls discussing the matter. But I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to pay further compensation for the time she spent 
doing so. Halifax responded promptly to Ms Ms complaint when she said she needed an 
urgent response.
Is it fair to require Halifax to waive or refund the early repayment charge?
Mr and Ms M took out a fixed interest rate product in 2019. This included an ERC, payable if 
the mortgage is repaid before 2024. 
Mr and Ms M agreed to the ERC when they took out the product. They were aware of the 
ERC when they decided to repay the mortgage. They didnt repay the mortgage because of 
an error by Halifax. They repaid it so that they could take out a mortgage that would allow 
them to let out the property. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
require Halifax to waive or refund the ERC. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman