DRN-3622783
The complaint
Mr Y complains UK Credit Limited trading as UK Credit irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr Y is represented by a claims management company. For ease of reference, Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by Mr Y.
What happened
UK Credit approved Mr Y for a £3,000 guarantor loan in July 2019. The term of the loan was 
36 months, with repayments of approximately £170. Mr Y says the loan was irresponsibly 
lent. He says UK Credit did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before 
lending, and had it done so, it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to him. The 
purpose of the loan was to help towards wedding costs. The loan was settled in 2022.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He felt UK Credit had not 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks. However he also felt the information UK 
Credit had was sufficient to suggest Mr Y was not in a position to take on more credit.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set out my provisional findings as 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ys 
complaint. 
UK Credit and Mr Y are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail 
here. 
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Mr Y. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time UK 
Credit lent effectively required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
These checks needed to assess Mr Ys ability to afford the loan and repay it 
sustainably over its term, without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they shouldve been 
effectively proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration 
and total cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it wasnt sufficient for UK Credit to just complete proportionate checks  it also 
had to consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending 
decision. This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring 
repayments can be made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Finally, the fact this loan was secured by a guarantor in no way lessened the 
obligations which applied to UK Credit. 
As set out above this loan was for a total amount of £3,000. In this instance, Mr Y 
had initially applied to be the guarantor for a larger loan with his partner, however UK 
Credit did not proceed with that application as Mr Y was not a homeowner and 
therefore didnt meet its criteria for guarantors. So Mr Y instead applied as a 
borrower and was accepted for the £3,000 with his partner entering into a guarantee 
and indemnity agreement.
UK Credit says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving 
Mr Ys loan. It says it completed a detailed affordability assessment with Mr Y which 
included verifying his income with a copy of his P60 form, and also searching his 
credit file. These searches showed that Mr Ys income was around £2,100 per 
month, lived with his partner and her two children, and that he had around £24,000 in 
existing debt. UK Credits affordability assessment suggested that Mr Y would have 
approximately £400 in disposable income.
Ive considered UK Credits argument, but I disagree that it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. Whilst I note it did verify Mr Ys 
income with copies of his P60, Im satisfied there was sufficient information on file to 
suggest it shouldve done more to verify his outgoings.
I say this because Mr Y had a reasonable level of debt  around £24,000 (compared 
to his declared income) at the point of the application. This was made up from a 
number of different products including existing unsecured loans, credit cards, and a 
small overdraft. Whilst the credit file suggests Mr Y was meeting these commitments, 
it also demonstrates Mr Ys level of debt had been increasing steadily over the period 
of time leading up to this application. This included a number of high value loans 
being taken out which look like they had settled previous commitments, which were 
still being paid by Mr Y. There was also evidence of Mr Y taking out more credit in 
the 12 months leading up to this loan including a further credit card and unsecured 
loan. I can also see that Mr Ys existing credit commitments such as his credit cards 
which had respective limits of around £11,000 and £800 were close to being fully 
utilised. 
As such Im satisfied UK Credit shouldve done more to verify Mr Ys outgoings, and 
as it didnt do so it follows that Im not satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks 
were completed in this instance.
As proportionate checks were not completed in this instance; Ive gone on to 
consider what further checks wouldve likely shown. Our service has asked Mr Y to 
provide further information; but he has not been able to do so as of the time of 
writing. So with that in mind Ive made my decision on the information which is 
currently available.
Having done so, whilst Im satisfied there were indications which suggested further 
checks shouldve been completed; Ive not seen persuasive enough information to 
say, on balance, that the loan wouldve been unaffordable to Mr Y.
UK Credits affordability assessment suggested that Mr Y could afford the necessary 
repayments with a disposable income of approximately £400. This included the 
increase in his credit commitments. Im also satisfied that the Mr Ys explanation for 
the use of the funds and the recent increase in his credit commitments (to help toward the cost of his wedding) was supported by his fiance making the initial loan 
application. 
And as stated earlier Mr Ys credit file showed that whilst his level of credit was 
increasing, he was maintaining this well, again not suggesting that he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. So overall given the particular circumstances here, 
I dont think that UK Credit ought reasonably to have realised that it might have been 
increasing Mr Ys indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful.
I appreciate Mr Y says he was experiencing financial difficulties at the time, but in the 
absence of persuasive information to the contrary, Im satisfied on balance the 
information suggested Mr Y could afford the repayments of this loan. So it follows 
that Im satisfied, based on what Ive currently seen, that UK Credit made a fair 
decision to lend.
Ive not seen any other evidence that suggests UK Credit acted unfairly in any other 
way. So it follows that my provisional decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to respond with any further information or comments it wished to make. 
Neither party responded with any further information or arguments for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that my provisional findings should remain. That is to say that I 
do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied on the information that has been provided that UK Credit shouldve completed 
further checks on Mr Y for them to be considered proportionate. This is because there was 
sufficient information on his credit file to require UK Credit to do more to verify his outgoings. 
However, again based on the information that has been provided, Im satisfied that further 
checks wouldve likely shown Mr Y could afford the repayments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman