DRN-3759935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed them for payments Ms R 
sent to an investment scam. 
What happened
Ms R has explained to us she saw cryptocurrency and bitcoin investments on television and 
wanted to give it a go. She was contacted by someone who introduced her to a broker who 
seemed genuine and said she would help her get enough to pay off her mortgage and have 
funds to spare. Ms R has explained she sent a payment in May 2021 to open the account 
and then a further investment payment in mid-June 2021, all from her joint account with 
Mr R. At the end of June 2021 she was asked to pay taxes to release her investment and the 
dynamic she had with the broker changed. She received threats to do with the taxes and 
money laundering, and was told she had to pay certain amounts, or she could go to prison. 
Ms R sent three further payments as a result of this.
In September 2021, Ms R realised shed been the victim of a scam. Ms R complained to 
HSBC but it didnt uphold her complaint. It said that there were no recovery options in 
relation to the payments, as the card payments had gone to genuine cryptocurrency firms 
and the international payments werent able to be recalled at that time. And it didnt agree it 
had made a mistake in processing any of the payments. But it did award £75 for delays in 
reaching its outcome.
Ms R disagreed and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator ultimately didnt 
uphold the complaint. Ms R made the first large payment towards this scam at the end of 
June 2021 and this was done over the phone. Our investigator thought HSBC had done 
enough in this call, considering Ms R wasnt honest about the reason for making the 
payment. After this payment she didnt think the others should trigger an intervention. And 
she was satisfied that there were no recovery options.
Mr and Ms R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They 
disagreed the call by HSBC was good enough and felt that they were due their funds back, 
or at least to share 50:50 responsibility with HSBC. While there were a number of factors to 
consider when this case first came to our service, as set out above, at this time there is one 
key issue left  whether or not HSBC did enough in its intervention call with Ms R. So I have 
focussed my decision on this point. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Ms R and their representatives have scrutinised the call HSBC had with 
Ms R. Ms R has said that they have played the call to a number of people and everyone 
who knows her can hear the fear in her voice. And they have suggested a number of 
different things that could have happened in the call or questions that couldve been asked. 
But the advisor didnt know her. They are taking this call in isolation and dont know how 
Ms R normally sounds, or have the context of the scam that shes shared with others. What I 
have to do is consider whether what did happen in the call was reasonable considering the 
risk this transaction posed. And the way HSBC assesses that risk is by the information Ms R 
provides in the call, which we know is not honest information.  
There are of course situations in a call where we may think a bank should be concerned, for 
example if someone is very hesitant, unable to answer questions or repeatedly changes their 
responses. Ive listened to the call and I cant agree that Ms R fits this sort of profile. While I 
appreciate her family knows this isnt how she normally sounds, I dont hear anything 
concerning in this call. When she realises the exchange rate has changed, her and the 
advisor both laugh. And this happens more than once. The call sounds natural, there arent 
any vocal tells in the call I think the advisor shouldve picked up on to say Ms R was acting 
under duress or out of fear.
I accept that the warning given by the advisor and the questioning they did do wasnt specific 
to Ms Rs situation or scam. But they are expected to act on the information they receive. 
Ms R said she was paying a family member, so theres no suggestion she was investing to 
prompt this kind of warning. And while the reference she asked to include did have the name 
of a cryptocurrency firm, I dont think this is enough to say HSBC failed in its duty. Ms R 
spells this out for the advisor when she first gives it. And when the advisor reads it back its a 
small part of the long reference given. So I dont think this alone is enough to say the advisor 
shouldve realised Ms R wasnt being honest about what she was doing. 
Im also aware that Ms R was coached through this phone call by the scammers and had 
received a number of threats from them prior to the call. So even if I was to say the advisor 
should have asked about the reference, which I dont consider it did need to, I dont see how 
this ultimately wouldve stopped her making this payment.
Ms R has explained the great deal of preparation she had for the call, receiving over 20 
practice calls with two or three different people. So its clear different eventualities were 
covered, it seems highly likely the reference wouldve been one of these. And shes told us 
she believed she would go to prison if she didnt pay the funds, so it seems there would be 
very little HSBC couldve done to stop her, short of refusing to make the payment. Even if 
Ms R had explained her sister-in-law was going to invest the money, hence the reference, 
that wouldnt be a reason for HSBC to block the payment all together. They ought to have 
given some further investment scam information, but I cant see Ms R stopping at this point 
considering the preparation she went through for the call, and more importantly the threat of 
prison she says she was under.
Ms Rs representative has said that HSBC couldve stopped Ms R by breaking the spell that 
this was a genuine investment. But Ms R has later told us she said the payment was for her 
sister as a hint to HSBC she was being scammed. Its therefore unclear whether she was, at 
the time of this call, acting under duress or due to the belief this was a genuine investment. 
But either way, as Ive explained above, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly here, as I 
dont agree it wouldve reached a point where it shouldve refused to make the payment. Or 
where Ms R wouldve agreed to stop if it didnt do this.I can understand why Ms R acted the way she did in the call, considering the situation shes 
described. But our role here is to make a finding about whether HSBC has done something 
wrong. Whether or not Ms R had a legitimate reason for being dishonest isnt the test I must 
apply here. HSBC could only act on what it did know at the time. And Ms R was 
unfortunately coached into providing a plausible explanation for sending the funds that didnt 
suggest she was directly paying into an investment. HSBC didnt know how vulnerable she 
was or about the threats she was receiving. So I cant fairly say it should now refund her 
because of a situation it had no idea about. And considering how Ms R has described the 
events, it doesnt seem HSBC wouldve been able to uncover the situation at the time, as 
Ms R was prepared for the call and felt forced to lie to conceal what was going on.
I appreciate Mr and Ms R, Ms R in particular, are going through a very difficult time following 
this scam. From reading their correspondence I do appreciate the impact has been 
devastating and has caused long term financial and health consequences. However, we are 
an impartial service. It would not be appropriate, and nor is it within our remit to let this 
impact the outcome of the case. The outcome of this complaint must be decided on the facts 
and what happened at the time of the scam, it cannot be influenced by emotion or decided 
on empathy. I know this outcome will be very difficult for Mr and Ms R and Im sorry to have 
to deliver such difficult news. But I cant agree that HSBC did do something wrong in this 
case. I do have to weigh up the evidence we hold, even if it was received later in the case 
journey, and due to this, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman