DRN-2028331
The complaint
Mr P says UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) mis-sold him the travel insurance he
got as part of his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P bought his home insurance policy over the phone in 2013 and it renewed automatically
for the following six years. The policy included travel insurance. But it didnt cover travellers
who were 65 or over. Mr P was over 65 in 2013.
Mr P says he didnt know he had the cover until last year, when his daughter was going
through some paperwork. Mr P then tried to claim on the travel insurance but his claim was
declined, in part because Direct Line said he wasnt eligible because of his age.
So Mr P complained to Direct Line saying it shouldnt have sold him cover he wasnt eligible
for. When Direct Line didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint, he complained to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ps complaint upheld it. She didnt think Direct Line
shouldve sold Mr P travel cover he couldnt benefit from. But she said she thought the
buildings cover Mr P got under the policy was useful to him. So, to put things right, she
recommended Direct Line calculate the extra cost Mr P paid over the years for the travel
cover and refund him this (plus interest).
In response to our investigators view, Direct Line gave us new information and Mr Ps
complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision in which I said I 
didnt intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint. This was because, from the new information Direct 
Line gave us, I didnt think it was likely the sale had caused Mr P any financial loss.
Mr P doesnt agree with my provisional decision. Direct Line hasnt responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, and having looked at the comments Ive 
had since then from Mr Ps representative, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I 
know this is disappointing for him.
In my provisional decision, I said:
I should start by saying that, where we think a business hasnt treated its customer fairly 
and reasonably, our role is to make sure it puts that customer back in the position he or she
wouldve been in had the business done everything as it shouldve.
So, if I were to look at how Direct Line sold Mr P his combined buildings and travel insurance
policy and decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint about the travel element, Id ask Direct Line 
as our investigator recommended  to repay the premiums Mr P paid for the travel element,
plus interest.
However, in response to our investigators view on this complaint, Direct Line has told us   
Mr P paid no additional premium for the travel insurance element of the policy. It says this 
part of the policy was an additional benefit  along with the home emergency cover  that 
was free of charge. If this is the case, it means that, even if the travel cover was mis-sold, 
theres nothing for Direct Line to pay back to Mr P  so thered be no compensation for me to 
award. Direct Line has sent us some screenshots for each of the years Mr P had the policy. 
It says these show there was no additional premium for the travel insurance. The 
screenshots show the annual premium for the cover as a whole and they also show a 
separate premium each year for family legal protection. There is no separate premium 
shown for the travel insurance (nor is there one for the home emergency insurance).
This isnt conclusive evidence that Mr P didnt pay extra for the travel insurance  because it
couldve been built into the premium as a whole. Our investigator has asked Direct Line if  
Mr P couldve bought standard household cover without the extra travel insurance when he 
first took the policy out. And, if he could, she asked what the premium wouldve been for that
cover. Direct Line has told our investigator a standard policy was available without the travel
cover but it cant back-date quotes six years to see what the premium wouldve been. I think
its disappointing Direct Line says it cant do this.
The information Direct Line has given us isnt conclusive evidence that Mr P didnt pay
anything for the travel cover. But I do think its persuasive. And I see that, when Mr Ps
daughter wrote to us about his complaint, she said its possible the year the policy was
initially sold there was an offer that benefits were free or the same price. Theres no
recording of the sales call, and in any case Mr Ps daughter didnt take part in it  so I dont
think this is conclusive evidence that Mr P didnt pay extra for the travel cover (at least in the
first year) either.
But to decide Mr Ps complaint, I dont need to have conclusive evidence. The standard I
must work to is called the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I think is more
likely than not to have happened. In Mr Ps case, based on the evidence Ive got so far, I
think its more likely than not he didnt pay anything extra for the travel cover.
I know its unlikely but, if Mr P does have anything to show he did pay extra for the cover, Id
be very grateful to see it and Id look at this issue again.
As Ive already said I know this answer will be deeply disappointing to Mr P. And its very
unfortunate Direct Line didnt give us the information it now has saying the travel cover was
free much much sooner. But, as things stand, on balance it doesnt currently look as if Mr P
has suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened. And this means we cant help him
further.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr Ps representative has said (among other things):
If I had known to screen shot all my searches then perhaps I could have sent evidence that 
the price charged did indeed incorporate the so called 'free travel element'. I am persistent 
on this fact as I performed a search with Direct line, identical to the policy details without the 
travel aspect, and it was substantially cheaper.
Mr Ps representative also says that searches he performed a year ago show that an 
identical policy without the free travel element was less than half. He thinks I can make an 
assumption, based on the balance of probabilities, that the same was true in 2013. But the evidence he has given me, which is essentially of his recent searches, isnt strong 
enough for me to think its likely Mr P has suffered a financial loss because of what 
happened in 2013  for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. So, on the evidence I 
have, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold his complaint.
My reasoning in my provisional decision is now final and forms part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman