DRN-2006521
The complaint
Mrs D complains that V12 Retail Finance Limited (V12) havent supported a claim she 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs D made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I think an implied term of the contract is that the sofa should be of satisfactory condition. If 
the sofa wasnt of satisfactory condition I may therefore think there had been a breach of 
contract. But here Im not persuaded the sofa was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied as 
there have been two inspections and neither suggest that there is a fault. I understand that 
the second inspector put some extra padding in the arm but at the same time he confirmed 
that he didnt think there was a fault, so I think it was more likely he was trying to help 
alleviate any concerns.
Im also not persuaded there has been a misrepresentation. I understand Mrs D would have 
wished for the sales agent to explain the care of the sofa to her. But I can see she was 
provided with a sofa care leaflet that explained those guidelines and I dont think it was 
necessary for the sales agent to explain the guidance to her.
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence there has been a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation here and I therefore dont think V12 were unreasonable when they 
rejected Mrs Ds claim. Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman