DRN-4114374
The complaint
Mrs N complains that due to an administration issue by Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
trading as Hastings Direct (Hastings), she was stopped by the Police for driving without 
insurance.
What happened
In October 2022 Mrs N changed the car insured under her motor insurance policy. Hastings 
issued new documents and the policy was renewed around two months later.
In January 2023 Mrs N was stopped by the Police as her vehicle wasnt showing as insured.  
This was because Hastings had input the incorrect vehicle registration number when the 
vehicle was changed.
Hastings apologised for the error and offered £150 compensation. They also confirmed that 
if anything had happened the vehicle would have been covered. 
Mrs N was unhappy with the level of compensation offered and also believes she should be 
given a refund for the period of time the registration was incorrect. As Mrs N remained 
unhappy with Hastings, she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt recommend Hastings do anything further. 
He thought the compensation already offered was reasonable. He also said that Mrs N was 
sent documents which showed the incorrect registration and she didnt make Hastings aware 
of this.
As Hastings had confirmed the car would have been covered if anything had happened, as 
the issue was due to their error, the investigator didnt recommend Hastings refund the 
premiums.
Mrs N didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Hastings accept they made an error when Mrs N changed her vehicle. Despite phonetically 
reading back the correct registration, their agent input one letter incorrectly. And this resulted 
in the car not showing as being insured, which then resulted in Mrs N being stopped by the 
Police.
Fortunately, Mrs N wasnt prosecuted for driving without insurance, and there was no long-
term impact such as increased premiums or points on her licence, and no further action was 
taken at the time. Hastings also offered to provide a letter of indemnity if required by 
Mrs N.
However, I do recognise it would have been distressing being stopped in the first place due 
to the error made by Hastings. 
But I also need to take into account, after the change of vehicle took place, Mrs N was sent 
new documents which showed the incorrect registration. Whilst Mrs N says they werent 
received, if she was expecting new documents which then didnt arrive, she could have 
chased Hastings for these.
In addition, the policy was renewed after this point, so a new set of documents were sent 
then too, still showing the incorrect registration. And Mrs N made some changes to the 
excess on the policy after this but didnt notice the registration was incorrect at any time or 
make Hastings aware of this.
Hastings has offered £150 compensation for what happened, and I think that amount is 
reasonable in the circumstances. So, Im not going to direct Hastings to increase this 
amount.
Mrs N has also asked for a refund of premiums for the three months the registration was 
incorrect. However, Hastings has confirmed that if anything had happened, then the car 
wouldve been covered as it was their error. Therefore, effectively cover was in place, so Im 
not going to direct Hastings to provide a refund for this time.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman