DRN-3883010
The complaint
Mrs C complains that an international transfer she made through HSBC UK Bank Plc was 
returned to them and she had significant delays in receiving the money back into her 
account.
What happened
Mrs C attempted an international transfer on 26 April 2022, through HSBC online, with a 
HSBC member of staff, which she said it took 1 hour and 34 minutes for her to transfer 
£25,000 to an attorney overseas. She says she was advised the transfer would take 3-5 
working days to reach the beneficiaries account. After this timeframe, she asked the attorney 
if she had received the money, but she confirmed she hadnt done so. 
Mrs C contacted HSBC. She says she was informed that the payment had been returned as 
she was told she had entered an incorrect digit when setting up the payment details. She 
said she asked when the money would be returned to her account and no date was offered. 
She says she has rung HSBC at least ten times. Mrs C says that around 10 May 2022 she 
was informed her money was in an intermediary account overseas, but she had no 
explanation why this was. Mrs C made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC initially did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Mrs C asked for an explanation of where the 
money was. HSBC issued Mrs C another response on 20 June. They said as the payment 
had been made in a different currency, then the payment was routed to the country overseas 
where the money currently was. They said on 4 April (although they meant 4 May), they 
received a message for the correct beneficiary account number, and they responded that if 
they were unable to apply the funds, to return the payment. They said they sent a number of 
requests for the other bank to return the payment. HSBC said on 19 May, they received the 
funds back and they were advised the reason for the return was incorrect details.
HSBC said they were in the process of returning the funds to Mrs Cs account and they had 
escalated this as high as possible. They said with the service she received over the phone, 
they were sorry that the line cut out on a number of occasions and she had to make a 
number of calls. They said due to the volume of payments they process daily, they were 
unable to contact customers with regard to every payment. Due to the service she received 
at times, HSBC said they credited £100 to her account. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator said there was no account 
number for the beneficiary and the beneficiary name was also incorrect. She said she 
wouldve expected HSBC to have corrected this at the outset and known that when sending 
an international payment, what information is required and to check this with Mrs C. She said 
once the payment was returned, on or around 19 May 2022, she couldnt find an acceptable 
reason as to why Mrs C still had to wait so long for the funds to credit her account at the end 
of June. She said HSBC should pay Mrs C a total of £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused her.
Mrs C asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said she had lost out on business as a result of what happened, she 
requested a letter from HSBC in May regarding a bank account application she was trying to 
open overseas, she said she did enter an account number for the beneficiary, so she 
believes there is a software issue with HSBCs systems, or a lack of human input data not 
being recorded. She said details that were put in by herself were never conveyed to the 
intermediary bank, and this is where she believes the fault lies.
Mrs C says if HSBC asked her for the details of which they had been asked from by the 
beneficiary bank, then what happened couldve been prevented. Mrs C says HSBC didnt 
make her aware of what happened and that her funds were being returned and she had to 
chase them almost every day. She said she wants to be compensated £1,000 each day from 
19 May-26 June due to the impact this has had on her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Mrs C has mentioned a letter which she was expecting from HSBC, regarding a bank 
account application she was trying to open overseas. As HSBC have not looked into this 
point for her as part of this complaint, she will need to raise a separate complaint with them if 
she wishes to do so, to give them a chance to investigate this. If she is not happy with their 
response then she can bring this complaint point to our service. 
Id like to explain to Mrs C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their international payments procedures and to contact their customers for further 
information about payment details they have entered. It would be the role of the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct HSBC to make changes to 
their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute 
resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of 
individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry 
guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business has failed their 
customer.
Our investigator has provided a detailed timeline of the events which occurred in her view, 
so I wont go into great detail here about this as this is well known to both parties  although 
HSBC has said the funds credited Mrs Cs account on 24 June 2022 and not 26 June and 
theyve provided evidence of this.
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about potential errors on HSBCs systems. I asked 
them if the information input by the customer on their online form requires any human input 
after the payment request had been submitted to them and they confirmed to me that it is all 
automated, so whatever is entered in the form, pre-populates to what is known as a Society 
for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) message. They confirmed 
there were no known issues of any errors in pre-populating a SWIFT message. So Im 
satisfied that the information in the SWIFT message is the exact details that Mrs C has 
submitted to HSBC.
Ive had a look at the details which would have formed the SWIFT message on HSBCs 
archived entry of the payment. Mrs C has told our service the details of where she wanted 
the payment to be made to. For the overseas bank she gave us the name, address, the 
SWIFT code of the bank and an account number for the bank. Field 57 of the archived entry shows the overseas bank which she was sending the money to. This section shows the 
SWIFT code for that bank, the name and address of the bank. But whereas Mrs C has told 
us an account number for the bank, there is no entry in this section. 
I can see in field 58/59 of the archived entry, which this section is titled Benf. 
Institution/Cust  - or in other words the beneficiaries account, that there is an account 
number, but the account number in this section is what Mrs C says should be the account 
number for the bank. So the actual beneficiary account number  her attorneys, was not 
entered by Mrs C online, otherwise it would have shown in this field. In addition, there is an 
incorrect first word in the beneficiary name. I cant say this would be an error on HSBCs part 
as they wouldnt be responsible for what a customer entered into a payee name (or any auto 
fill software she had on her computer). So I cant hold them responsible for any lost 
business, or extra costs she has incurred as a result of the failed payment if she had 
submitted incorrect payment instructions. 
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about if there was missing information then HSBC 
should have known this. But as she entered the SWIFT code for the recipients bank, then an 
account number for the bank itself is not always needed. So I cant say that there should 
have been anything which would have made HSBC make further checks here as there was 
a beneficiary account number  albeit this is what Mrs C wanted to be entered for the bank, 
not the beneficiary. But I cant hold HSBC responsible for what Mrs C entered in the form. 
There is no confirmation of payee scheme for international transfers, so HSBC would not 
be aware of if any details in the instruction did not match with the beneficiary details such as 
an incorrect account number or name.
I asked HSBC to provide me with the customer journey that Mrs C had online. Before the 
payment is confirmed it says on the review screen please check the details carefully. This 
section also tells her select edit if you need to make changes or cancel to stop the payment. 
Once confirmed it cant be recalled. So even though Mrs C spoke to a call handler while she 
processed the payment, I cant say that the call handler would be responsible for what Mrs C 
submitted as they wouldnt be able to see Mrs Cs screen and she submitted the request 
even after the details would have been in the review section. 
Ive then considered what happened when HSBC received the funds back on 19 May. Its 
possible this had to go through a different division of HSBC in another country first which 
contributed to the delays. But even if this is what happened, and they needed to wait until 
they received the funds, Im satisfied that they played a large part in the significantly long 
delay for the funds to be received back into Mrs Cs account. Especially as she had to chase 
HSBC several times and spend more time on the phone then it would be usually necessary 
to facilitate a transfer back to her account. So Im persuaded that HSBC let Mrs C down 
here.
Ive considered the amount of compensation that Mrs C wants for what has happened. But 
the amount she has asked for is higher than our guidelines would permit me to award based 
on the individual circumstances of this complaint. I say this as compensation is a 
discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted 
wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer over and 
above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend compensation, it is 
often modest and within our established guidelines. 
As previously discussed, Im not persuaded that HSBC were at fault for the incorrect 
payment details being submitted. But I am persuaded that they could have done more to 
ensure the funds were returned in a timelier manner, which would have saved Mrs C more 
distress and inconvenience by having to keep contacting them about this. Our investigator suggested a total of £500 compensation was fair and reasonable 
compensation for what happened here. This is more compensation than I generally would 
have awarded here as Ive already explained that HSBC would not be responsible for the 
information Mrs C had entered and Ive set out the reasons they would not know this 
information was incorrect at the time including there not being a confirmation of payee 
scheme for international payments. 
But as HSBC agreed to pay this compensation, then Im satisfied that it would be fair for Mrs 
C to receive this amount in total. HSBC had already paid £100 to Mrs C. So they would need 
to pay Mrs C an extra £400 to total £500 compensation which our investigator has 
suggested. And they have confirmed to me that they still agree to the £500 total 
compensation. So it follows HSBC should put things right for Mrs C.
Putting things right
Our investigator has suggested that HSBC pays Mrs C an extra £400 to total £500 
compensation which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs C an extra £400 (to total 
£500 compensation) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman