DRN-2755864
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society refused to carry out instructions to 
make a debit card payment.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs P hold a joint current account with Nationwide Building Society. Mr P wanted to 
make an online purchase using his debit card, but the payment was blocked.
He contacted Nationwide about this on several occasions. He says it assured him that the 
block had been removed. But despite this he says the payment couldnt be made, and the 
purchase couldnt proceed until the next day. He says that because of this the price he had 
to pay for his purchase increased by almost £200.
He complained to Nationwide about what had happened. It investigated his complaint. It said 
that the blocks on his account were in line with its terms and conditions. It also said the 
payment had been blocked by the card scheme, Verified by Visa. Even though the block had 
been removed, further attempts to make the payment were also declined because the price 
had changed. So, it said the payment request had changed and thats what triggered the 
new block. It also said that once a block on a payment type had been applied by Verified by 
Visa that could mean a block being applied by Nationwides own systems.
Nationwide accepted that Mr P had been given incorrect information about the effect of the 
block being removed and it acknowledged its service had been unacceptable. It credited Mr 
and Mrs Ps account with £100 by way of compensation. But it didnt agree to pay Mr P for 
the loss he said hed suffered when the price for his purchase had increased as a result of 
the delay.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with what Nationwide had said. He complained to our service. Mrs P 
was also joined in the complaint because she was a joint account holder.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. She said she had to consider whether the 
payment was blocked because of an error made by Nationwide, or because of the way it had 
configured its security systems.
She thought it was reasonable for Nationwide to have special rules for certain types of 
payment. And she noted that in this case there were two systems which monitored payments 
 one on Nationwides own systems and one on Verified by Visas systems. Although these 
were two separate systems, they did feed into one another. This meant that a payment could 
be blocked on one or both systems. She said it was because of these system checks, and 
not because of any error Nationwide had made, that the payment had been blocked. So, she 
didnt think Nationwide should have to compensate him for the increase in the purchase 
price that had occurred because of the delay.
Our investigator acknowledged that because of the security checks Mr P had experienced a 
loss of expectation. Nationwide had already credited Mr and Mrs Ps account with £100 by 
way of compensation for what happened. She thought that was fair and reasonable and she 
didnt think it should have to do anything more.
Mr P and Mrs P didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. These state that Nationwide 
can refuse to act on instructions if its security controls require it to do so. And, if this 
happens it will tell the customer why it has refused the payment if he phones it after 
the end of the next working day. The terms also state that Nationwide may decide to 
carry out checks before payments are made. And, this may lead to a delay in 
payment.
So, having considered the terms and conditions for the account, these do make clear 
that a payment can be prevented, or it can be delayed.
Ive also considered the payment Mr P wanted to make. It was to make a purchase, 
the nature of which, Nationwide says, caused it to be categorised under its security 
policy as high risk. Thats why extra checks were required. I dont think Nationwide 
acted unreasonably or unfairly when its systems blocked the payment, in line with its 
security policy.
Ive then thought about what happened when Mr P contacted Nationwide. Ive 
listened carefully to the call he made on 28 April 2020. He explained what the 
payment was for and that it was genuine. He said this wasnt the first time this had 
happened. He thought he shouldve received a text when the payment wasnt made 
which wouldve allowed him to confirm that it was genuine. He queried the telephone 
number Nationwide held for him and he asked it to change the number. He was told 
it would take 24 hours to process this new number on its systems.
Nationwide explained to Mr P that sometimes payments could be blocked by Visa as 
well. It then checked the payment details. It said that the payment had been held up 
by its own fraud department. It said that once the payment was confirmed as 
genuine it should be able to push it (the payment) through.
Having listened to the call, I can understand why Mr P believed that the block would 
be lifted and the payment could proceed. Mr P appears to have tried to make further 
attempts to make the payment on 28 April after the telephone call. But these 
attempts also failed.
On 29 April Mr P again tried to make the payment. By this stage the price of his 
online purchase had increased by just under £200. But, his first attempt on 29 April 
also failed and he contacted Nationwide again. It told him the block had been 
removed and he should be able to proceed to make the payment. But when that 
didnt happen, he phoned Nationwide again a few minutes later. Nationwide again 
removed the block. It stayed on the line until Mr P confirmed a further attempt to 
make the payment was successful.
Ive thought about the explanation Nationwide has given for why the payments 
couldnt be made, even after it says it had lifted the block. It says:the payment which had been unblocked was for a different amount than the 
next payment request which Mr P made. It is the case that because the purchase 
price was changing each time, the payment amount was different each time; and
it did remove the block on the payment each time it told Mr P it had done this. 
But there were two systems. This meant that a payment could be blocked by Verified 
by Visas system and/or by Nationwides system.
As Ive mentioned above, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly when its systems 
identified the payment as high risk under its security policy. But, when Mr P 
contacted Nationwide to tell it the payment was genuine Id have expected 
Nationwide to be able to lift the block and allow the payment to proceed. So, Ive 
thought about the reasons Nationwide has given for why that didnt happen.
When Mr P contacted Nationwide, he made clear what the nature of his purchase 
was. And he also made clear that the price was subject to fluctuation  indeed he 
told Nationwide the price was increasing. So, Nationwide knew that any subsequent 
attempts to make the payment wouldve been for a different amount. It didnt tell Mr 
P that this would be an issue once the block had been removed. So, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable for Nationwide to rely on the different payment amounts as a 
reason for what happened here.
Ive then considered what Nationwide has said about the two security systems which 
apply to payments.
Mr P has referred to a payment he made to the same payee a few days previously. 
Nationwide has told us that on that occasion it had been able to confirm with Mr P 
that the transaction was genuine and so it was able to pass through Verified by 
Visas security system. It then proceeded to Nationwides own security systems. But 
Nationwide told us that the payment on the previous occasion, wasnt blocked by its 
own system because it didnt meet the risk thresholds. And, although for reasons of 
security, it cannot tell us what those risk thresholds are, I can see there were 
differences between this payment and the payment requests on 28 and 29 April 
which were blocked.
Having listened to the call on 28 April 2020, I can see that the payment on this date 
wasnt blocked by Verified by Visas systems  it was blocked by Nationwides 
security system. Thats what Nationwide told Mr P when he contacted it on 28 April. 
And, Nationwide assured Mr P it would speak to the fraud department and the 
payment would be pushed through.
Its not clear what the conversation was with the fraud department or what happened 
- but the block wasnt lifted. And, it was still there the next day. Mr P phoned again 
on 29 April. He was again told that the block would be removed  but he had to 
phone back again when that hadnt happened.
It is the case that Nationwide was able to remove the block when Mr P phoned it for 
the second time on 29 April 2020. And, because the block was in place as a result of 
Nationwides own security systems, Im satisfied, on balance, it shouldve been able 
to do that when Mr P contacted it the previous day. So, I think Nationwide did make 
an error when it failed to take whatever action wouldve been required on 28 April to 
unblock the payment.
Mr and Mrs P have suffered a loss of £199.86 because of the increase in price of the 
online purchase. I think Nationwide should compensate them for this loss. And it should pay simple interest of 8% per year on this amount from 28 April 2020 until the 
date of payment.
Nationwide has acknowledged that Mr P was given wrong information and has 
acknowledged that the service he was provided with was unacceptable. Its already 
credited £100 to the joint account by way of compensation for this. Having taken 
everything into account, I think thats fair and reasonable compensation. So, I dont 
intend to require Nationwide to pay Mr and Mrs P anything further for distress and 
inconvenience.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Nationwide Building Society. In order to resolve this complaint, I 
intend to require Nationwide Building Society to take the following action:
pay Mr P and Mrs P £199.86 together with simple interest of 8%* per year on 
this amount from 28 April 2020 to the date of payment.
* If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr P and Mrs 
P, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay the compensation set out.
Mr and Mrs P also responded to my provisional decision. They said they had no further 
comments to make.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved.  
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and require 
Nationwide to pay Mr and Mrs P £199.86 together with simple interest of 8% per year on this 
amount from 28 April 2020 to the date of payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society. I 
now require it to:
pay Mr P and Mrs P £199.86 together with simple interest of 8%* per year on this 
amount from 28 April 2020 to the date of payment.
* If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr P and Mrs P, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman