DRN-4171541
The complaint
Mr M, Ms M and Mrs P complain ARAG Allgemeine Versicherungs-Aktiengesellschaft 
(ARAG) withdrew legal expenses cover when the limit of indemnity was exceeded. 
Mr M makes this complaint on behalf of himself, Ms M and Mrs P. For ease, Ill mainly refer 
to Mr M in my decision. 
What happened
Mr M had legal expenses insurance (LEI) under a farm policy with ARAG. In around October 
2019 Mr M made a claim on the policy to cover the costs of defending legal proceedings by 
a third party relating to an agricultural tenancy. ARAG accepted the claim and appointed 
panel solicitors to act on Mr Ms behalf. 
During a review, ARAG noticed the costs that had been incurred had exceeded the limit of 
indemnity. In June 2022 they let Mr M know they were withdrawing cover. They said theyd 
pay all the legal costs to date and support Mr M with the reasonable costs of negotiating a 
settlement as a gesture of goodwill. But they wouldnt fund the claim going forwards. 
Mr M complained. ARAG apologised and accepted responsibility for not making Mr M aware 
that for claims under the relevant section of the policy they wouldnt pay more than £10,000. 
They said that although the policy would have set out the limits of indemnity that applied, it 
had been up to them to let Mr M know about any nuances to cover. Mr M had incurred over 
£31,000 in legal costs. ARAG agreed to pay all the costs incurred; to fund an attempt to 
settle the legal claim on the best possible terms; and to pay £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience their mistake had caused. 
Mr M didnt accept ARAGs outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. He wanted ARAG to continue to fund the claim until it had been concluded.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said, broadly, Mr M wasnt entitled to 
further funding under the policy; hed benefited from more cover than the policy provided; 
and ARAGs offer to pay the reasonable costs of negotiating a settlement and compensation 
was fair.
Our investigator clarified with ARAG what their offer of support with a negotiated settlement 
meant. They explained theyd help Mr M, with the assistance of the panel solicitors, to settle 
the claim. And they said since the solicitors would stipulate the costs theyd need to pay,    
Mr M wouldnt need to worry about ensuring the costs were reasonable.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said, broadly, his opponent had put 
forward some settlement proposals at the outset; having sought legal advice and on the 
understanding all costs were covered, he decided to pursue the case; the estimated costs of 
taking the case to court had reached £40,000; and the third party required more than double 
what they asked for previously to settle the claim; if Mr M had known his costs wouldnt be 
covered, he would have accepted the offer to pay a lump sum; and he hadnt received the 
£500 compensation ARAG had offered.
Since Mr Ms complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules we expect an insurer to deal with claims 
promptly and fairly and not to decline a claim  or withdraw cover - unreasonably.
Since ARAG have accepted responsibility for failing to let Mr M know about the limit of 
indemnity, and they agreed to meet all the costs hed incurred to the date they withdrew 
cover, I dont need to consider those issues. Ill therefore focus on whats in dispute. Thats 
whether, even though theres no contractual responsibility for ARAG to continue to fund the 
dispute, they should have done, and/or whether the proposals ARAG have put forward to 
resolve the complaint are fair and reasonable. 
In summary, Mr M says:
The third party put forward options at the outset. One was for Mr M to pay them a 
lump sum to settle their claim, and another was to pursue the case.  
Having sought legal advice and in reliance on information from ARAG that all his 
legal fees would be covered, he decided to pursue the case. 
In deciding to go ahead, and assessing his financial position, he didnt factor in his 
legal costs since he understood ARAG would cover them all. If hed known they 
wouldnt, he would have made the lump sum payment the third party had asked for. 
Mr M now knows the costs of taking the matter to a hearing will be around £40,000. 
But its too late to accept the offer as the third party requires more than double to 
settle the case now.
The £500 compensation ARAG offered isnt enough to reflect the sleepless nights 
and anxiety Mr M, Ms M and Mrs P have suffered. And ARAG havent paid it in any 
event.
Bearing the above in mind, its relevant to look at the offers the third party made, the advice 
Mr M was given as the case progressed and whether Mr M made decisions on the 
understanding all his costs, and those of the opponent if he lost the case and had to pay 
them, would be covered. Unfortunately, I have limited information about the legal advice 
despite asking the parties to provide it. So, Ive come to my conclusions doing the best I can, 
balancing the evidence thats available. 
From what I can see, the third partys initial offer was made when ARAG had declined the 
claim under the policy and Mr Ms own solicitors were acting for him. Mr M couldnt 
reasonably have expected then that his legal costs would be covered by ARAG if he didnt 
accept the offer. His decision not to accept the offer is most likely to have been made on the 
understanding he would be responsible for costs if the case carried on. 
The panel solicitors seem to have taken over advising Mr M in around April 2020. Their initial 
report to ARAG put prospects of success at 75% on the basis the third party wasnt able, on 
the information provided, to establish his case. In July they still thought the defence had 
sufficient prospects of success. They asked for authority to instruct a forensic accountant 
and counsel. They estimated their total costs to that stage would be between £5,000 and 
£10,000. Given the advice on prospects of success and that the anticipated costs fell within the limit of 
indemnity, on balance I dont think Mr M is likely to have come to a different decision at this 
point about how to progress the case even if hed known about the limit on costs. It was 
reasonable to get the evidence and advice to establish the strength of his defence. 
Counsel advised in around August 2020. He said, in summary, the case was complicated, in 
its very early stages, further enquiries should be carried out and it was sensible to instruct 
the forensic accountant as the panel solicitors were proposing. 
ARAG were prepared to carry on funding the case after that. If the professional advice hadnt 
been supportive, ARAG are likely to have withdrawn cover at that stage. Thats because the 
terms and conditions of the policy required the case to have reasonable prospects of 
success  more than 50% - for cover to continue. 
Its reasonable to think Mr M is most likely to have approached any decision about the case 
at this stage on the basis his future costs would be paid by ARAG. And Mr M says he would 
have accepted the offer the third party had made if hed known the true extent of cover. 
Its unclear if the February 2020 offer was still on the table by then. Even if it was, Im not 
persuaded Mr M would have accepted it. If the prospects of successfully defending the case 
were reasonable, I think its more likely, on balance, Mr M would have carried on with 
defending it or tried to negotiate a more favourable deal, even if hed understood hed have 
to meet his own costs going forward. Thats because the sums at stake and potential 
outcome of the legal dispute were significant even at that stage. And, from what I 
understand, hes continuing to defend the case now even though hes funding it himself. 
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded Mr M would have settled the case even if hed 
understood sooner that not all of his legal costs would be covered. However, even if Im 
wrong about that, I dont think it would be fair to hold ARAG responsible for any additional 
costs of settling the claim now. Ill explain why.
As far as I know, the dispute hasnt been settled so its not possible to say Mr M is any worse 
off. Even if the dispute had been settled on less favourable terms than the 2020 offer, it 
would be too speculative to say the additional costs of settlement flowed from ARAGs 
mistake about the extent of cover under the policy. Those costs could be affected by many 
factors such as the third partys experts advice, changes in property values and the 
requirement for Mr M to carry out works that hadnt been anticipated. And since ARAG 
agreed to pay all Mr Ms legal costs to the date they withdrew cover, he isnt out of pocket 
there.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect ARAG to continue to cover the claim. The policy 
provided limited cover. ARAG has met costs considerably higher than the cover provided. 
And they reasonably offered to cover the panel solicitors additional costs of negotiating a 
settlement. I think that was fair in all the circumstances. I understand Mr Ms decision to 
appoint his own solicitors instead. He was entitled to make that choice. But it doesnt follow 
that ARAG should cover his ongoing costs. 
I note ARAG offered compensation of £500. I understand Mr M, Ms M and Mrs P will have 
been shocked and disappointed when they found out the claim wasnt covered. But ARAG 
acted promptly and fairly following their review to offer a way of taking things forward for 
them. Even though that wasnt acceptable to Mr M, it was a fair response, as Ive explained. 
And I think the £500 compensation fairly addresses the distress they will undoubtedly have 
felt when ARAG told them about the position on cover and the inconvenience of taking steps 
to appoint their own solicitors afterwards. Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr M, Ms M and Mrs P will be disappointed, 
Im not persuaded it would be fair to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, Ms M and 
Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman