DRN-3520672
The complaint
Ms H complains, through a claims management company, that Nationwide Building Society 
provided unsuitable advice in 2002. She feels that her future needs and objectives werent 
considered and that she wasnt properly advised as to the risk that her investment might only 
produce a small return. 
What happened
Ms H invested £14,000 through Nationwide in 2002. The amount had come from a recent 
inheritance and she was advised to invest £5,000 into a Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB) and 
£9,000 into a unit trust called the High Income Fund (£7,000 of this inside an ISA wrapper). 
Ms H says that the GEB matured in 2009, with a return of the minimum maturity value of 
110%. She also says the £2,000 invested outside of the ISA returned approximately £2,250 
in October 2007 and that the same unit trust within the ISA returned a similar gain when 
surrendered in 2011. Unfortunately, due to the time that has passed, we dont have exact 
detail on that. 
In October 2021, Ms H complained to nationwide through the CMC. They said that the level 
of risk contained in the investments wasnt suitable, that Ms Hs future objectives and needs 
werent considered and that she wasnt made sufficiently aware that the investments might 
produce a small return. 
Nationwide responded to say that the advisor met with Ms H twice to discuss the advice and 
was given an opportunity to reflect and decide. They said that it matched her agreed attitude 
to risk and was suitable and appropriate. 
Ms H remained unhappy and so the CMC brought the complaint to our service for an 
independent review. Our investigator looked into it. She said that the recommendations fitted 
with Ms Hs objectives and circumstances at the time. Whilst she noted that the CMC felt   
Ms H could have made further contributions to her mortgage, she couldnt see any evidence 
that Ms H wanted to do this. 
The CMC responded to say that they also felt that Ms Hs recorded outgoings werent 
correct. As well as Nationwide having not properly explained the potential for the investment 
to provide a below inflation return. As no agreement was reached, the case has been 
passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I know about Ms Hs overall financial situation when she took out these 
investments. Unfortunately, due to the amount of time that has passed since Ms H took the 
investments out, there is limited information available. Businesses shouldnt keep hold of 
information indefinitely and these investments were surrendered over ten years ago. In 
addition to what the parties have told me, I think its reasonable for me to rely on information 
in the fact find document, application and illustration. 
Ms H was employed, and her annual income was £10,000 per year, with monthly outgoings 
of approximately £500 and a net monthly disposable income of £250. She was single and 
recorded as having an endowment mortgage of approximately £26,000. Ms H had three 
financial dependants. She was recorded as having approximately £27,000 from inheritance 
and savings and was looking for capital growth. 
Ms Hs CMC have said that the fact-find completed showed a clearly incorrect monthly 
expenditure amount for Ms H. They say that as her annual income was £10,000 and she had 
three dependants, Nationwide should have known that her disposable income was incorrect 
and so advised her to use this amount differently. However, I have reviewed the document 
and I dont agree the figures Ms H gave were obviously incorrect. Further, Ms H signed to 
confirm they were correct and so I think Nationwide were entitled to rely on them. 
Ms Hs CMC has also said that this invested amount should have instead been used to pay 
off her mortgage. However, I can see she had an endowment mortgage with an endowment 
policy in place. The notes from the point of sale record Ms H as being happy with her 
endowment mortgage and didnt want the option to redeem it with this money. She was 
instead recorded as wanting growth, despite being made aware that the return might be less 
than the interest payable on the remaining borrowing. I think Nationwide discussed this 
option sufficiently and Ms H chose to invest instead. 
Nationwide advised Ms H to invest £14,000. Leaving approximately that amount again for 
emergencies as cash deposits. £5,000 was invested into a capital protected bond and 
£9,000 into a unit trust (utilising her ISA allowance with the majority). Considering Ms Hs 
financial circumstances at the time and her objective of capital growth, I dont think these 
were unsuitable recommendations. Further, Ms H was recorded as having a prudent 
attitude to risk, which I think was fair based on her circumstances and objectives. This 
recommendation for a capital protected bond and a unit-trust recorded as low risk (I am not 
entirely sure of its asset from the point of sale due to the amount of time that has passed), 
whilst leaving a large emergency fund, was reasonable. 
In summary, I think Nationwide considered Ms Hs objectives at the time of sale and made a 
recommendation that was suitable for her. I think she should have been fully aware of the 
risks involved. Especially as the GEB illustration confirmed a return could be as little as 
110% and Ms H signed to confirmed shed received and read both the key Features 
Document and Key Facts Illustration. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Yoni SmithOmbudsman