DRN-3565455
The complaint and what happened
Mr W complains Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse money he lost as a result of a 
scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
As a result of being on a bitcoin mining website, Mr W was contacted through social 
media channels with an investment opportunity with Golden Gate. He was persuaded 
to invest £13,600 over several transactions made in April 2021. The transactions 
were made via Mr Ws existing crypto-asset account with another provider. 
Mr W later realised hed been scammed and contacted Nationwide. It declined to 
refund Mr Ws money as it said it wasnt the point of loss  Mr W had transferred the 
money to his own cryptocurrency account, and it was sent from there to the 
scammer. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She was satisfied the payments 
werent unusual such that they ought to have triggered Nationwides security 
measures. 
Mr W has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He doesnt believe the investigator 
has understood the complexity of the scam; believes Nationwide ought to have 
intervened as it stopped payments to his crypto-asset provider a few months later. 
He has also argued that he should be provided with a refund under the Lending 
Standard Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the investigator, for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, a 
bank or building society should execute a payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, 
even where they are duped into making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr W 
made the payments, and so they are authorised. 
But if Nationwide breaches its duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud 
and scams, it might be liable for its customers losses. 
I have therefore considered the operation of Mr Ws account. In the months leading 
up to the transactions in dispute, he was making numerous transactions everyday  
including multiple daily transactions to the same merchant. Mr W had also made 
comparable transactions to his same crypto-asset account which he hasnt disputed. 
Overall, I dont find any of the payments that Mr W complains about to have been so 
unusual or uncharacteristic that they ought to have triggered Nationwides fraud alert 
systems, such that it ought have intervened and paused payments to question Mr W 
about them.  
Nationwide may have made a commercial decision a few months later to stop 
payments to Mr Ws crypto-asset provider. But it was and is a legitimate company. 
Nationwides commercial decision doesnt obligate it to refund transactions made to 
the same provider before that decision was made. 
Mr W has also referred to the CRM. But that isnt applicable to payments made by 
card or payments to customers own accounts. The payments here were made to Mr 
Ws own crypto-asset account which was in his control. The CRM therefore isnt 
applicable. 
I understand and accept Mr W has lost a lot of money as a result of being a victim of 
a scam. But as I dont find Nationwide ought to have done anything more when 
executing his payments, I find no basis on which to ask it to reimburse Mr Ws losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman