DRN-2137840
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Zopa Bank Limited is holding her responsible for a debt arising from a 
loan she says she didnt apply for, or benefit from.
What happened
Mrs R started investing in cryptocurrency through, what she believed to be, genuine 
investment traders. After making initial payments of £5250, the trader claimed that this had 
been lost and asked Mrs R to take out a loan of £10,000. Mrs R says that she refused this 
offer and to take out the loan.
Mrs R says that she later realised that a substantial sum was transferred into her bank 
account. She immediately contacted the trader and asked them why shed received this. 
She says that the trader assured her theyd take care of this and she later realised the 
funds had been removed from the account. She thought this was the end to the matter.
Mrs R later received notification for the repayment of a loan taken out with Zopa, so she 
contacted it to enquire about this.
Zopa acknowledged that Mrs R had fallen victim to a fraud but found she should still be held 
liable for the debt. It said that Mrs R had willingly supplied her personal information to a third-
party in order for them to apply for the loan on her behalf and invest. It added that once the 
loan was paid into her account, she forwarded the money onto the third-party.
Zopa pointed out that as Mrs R had willingly supplied her personal information, they matched 
the verification checks it carried out. It therefore had no reason to suspect the application 
wasnt made by Mrs R. 
Mrs R was unhappy with Zopas response, so she came to our service to look into things 
again. Mrs R told our service that she hadnt authorised a third-party to take out the loan on 
her behalf and claimed she hadnt transferred the funds to the fraudster. She therefore felt 
that being held responsible for the loan was unreasonable.
An Investigator looked into the evidence submitted by both parties and concluded that Mrs R 
shouldnt be held responsible for the debt. Her outcome was based on the following reasons:
Mrs R, on balance, didnt apply for or authorise a third-party to make application for 
the loan on her behalf
Mrs R appeared to be a vulnerable person whod been taken advantage of by 
fraudsters posing as cryptocurrency traders
The personal information used to obtain the loan had been provided to the fraudsters 
prior to the application of the loan for the purposes of setting up her trading account; 
not to apply for a loan
Mrs Rs bank card information had been compromised by the fraudsters which 
allowed them the ability to make card payments from her account after the loan funds 
had entered it
For the above reasons, the Investigator concluded that Zopa should write off the loan, refund 
any payments made and remove any reporting of it from Mrs Rs credit file.
Zopa disagreed with the Investigators assessment of the complaint. It said:
Mrs R was actively looking to invest in cryptocurrency and therefore Zopa cant be 
held responsible for the fact that this since turned out to be a scam
If the transactions on Mrs Rs account were so unusual, why did her bank not 
intervene for such a long period of time
Mrs R had informed it that she was the person whod transferred the funds from her 
account
Mrs Rs willingness to repay the loan indicated she was aware of it
The use of Mrs Rs genuine personal information, including email address and 
telephone number, would suggest she was aware of the loan
As Zopa disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to discussing the loan application, I think its important to highlight whether Mrs R was 
in fact victim to a fraud, or if she was genuinely investing in cryptocurrency. Its important to 
highlight this as it wouldnt be fair for a financial business to be held responsible for an 
investment that had failed or not gone the way an investor was expecting.
Having reviewed Mrs Rs testimony, the characteristics of the methods used to extract 
money from her are typical of fraud. Despite the trader losing Mrs Rs funds on several 
occasions, they continued to attempt to extract further funds from her. Furthermore, having 
conducted some open resource checks on the company where the trader claimed to be 
from, I cant see any legitimate company with this name. I also find it unlikely that a 
legitimate trader would suggest that an investor take out a substantial loan for the purpose of 
investing in cryptocurrency. Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs R was the victim of fraud here and 
not participating in legitimate investments.
Section 83 Consumer Credit Act 1974 outlines that a debtor under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement shall not be liable to the creditor for any loss arising from the use of the 
credit facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors agent. 
In simple terms, Mrs R cant be held liable for a debt that another person, not acting on her 
behalf, took out.
Taking the above into consideration, I must first concludeon the balance of probabilities
whether the loan was applied for by Mrs R, or an agent acting on her behalf.
Mrs R has told our service that upon opening her investment account through the purported 
trader, she was asked to provide her personal details to set it up. As its quite common to be 
asked for personal informationand even card details for paymentwhen opening financial 
products, I dont find it unreasonable that Mrs R provided this information. But I see no 
compelling evidence from either party that Mrs R provided this information for the purposes 
of a loan being applied for by her, or on her behalf.
Mrs R also says that she trusted the individuals claiming to assist her on behalf of the 
company. This isnt unfamiliar when dealing with complaints involving fraud. Fraudsters rely heavily on social engineering and persuasive tactics to draw their victims in and build trust. 
Mrs R is also a vulnerable victim in that she is elderly, doesnt necessarily understand the 
processes or implication of providing this information to unknown third parties. She was 
persuaded by the fraudsters and that they had her best interests at heart. And once theyd 
supposedly lost the funds shed invested, she wouldnt have had the ability to take back the 
information shed already provided to them. 
Nor have I seen any compelling evidence that Mrs R applied for this loan herself. Zopa has 
been able to evidence that Mrs Rs personal information was used to apply for the loan, but 
not that she was involved in the process. Zopa has pointed out that an email was sent to 
Mrs Rs genuine email address and this should have alerted her to make contact with Zopa if 
shed not applied for the loan. But Mrs R has said that she didnt receive this email, nor could 
she find it after shed made contact with Zopa. Emails can often be an unreliable way to 
communicate with a consumer. Not only can emails be received into spam folders but are 
generally untrusted by consumers; especially where the service being communicated isnt 
one the receiver was expecting. I think that its more likely than not that Zopa had sent the 
email to Mrs R, but I cant be certain shed either received it or had seen it. And I find it 
difficult to rely on this fact in proving Mrs R was aware of the loan. 
Mrs R has also consistently denied throughout that she took out the loan. Zopa has made 
submissions that Mrs Rs willingness to pay the loans repayments shows that she was 
aware of it being taken out. But after listening to the telephone calls provided by Zopa its 
clear Mrs R made Zopa aware from the very first call that she hadnt been involved in the 
loan application or benefitted from the funds.
Mrs R called Zopa when receiving notification of a repayment due to inform it that shed be 
unable to pay. Even in this call she mentioned at the end of the call that shed not seen or 
used the funds in question. But this wasnt picked up by the call handler or explored further.
On Mrs Rs second call with Zopa she again denies taking out the loan. On this occasion the 
call handler recognised Mrs R may have been victim to a fraud and referred her to the 
appropriate department. 
Mrs R then contacts Zopa and is transferred to the fraud department which asks her several 
questions. Its clear that even after speaking with the fraud department Mrs R still believes 
shed been dealing with legitimate traders rather than fraudsters. But her story remained 
consistent from the beginning; that she hadnt applied for the loan.
Zopa has said that Mrs R admitted to moving the money from her bank account to the 
fraudsters, and therefore, should be held liable for the funds. But this isnt what Ive 
interpreted from listening to the call with Zopas fraud team. Mrs R is asked how the funds 
were moved from her bank account and she responded that it looked like card payments 
from looking at her account statements. When asked if shed made these, she seemed very 
uncertain and said that she must have as thats what her bank statements were telling her. I 
dont think it fair to say that this is an admission that the money was moved on by Mrs R. I 
find it more likely that she didnt understand how the payments were made and conceded 
that it must have been her.
Furthermore, Mrs R has said that when she saw the funds enter her account, she contacted 
the fraudsters to question this. When she was assured the matter would be taken care of 
and saw the money leave her account, she had no reason to question things further. I 
understand Zopas submission that she should have contacted Zopa to question the funds 
entering her account. But Mrs R has told our service that she wasnt aware of who Zopa 
were. And I find it reasonable that shed sought assistance regarding it from the people she 
felt were responsible for paying the funds to her account.Information corroborated with her bank shows that Mrs Rs card information had been 
compromised and therefore its likely that the fraudsters used her card information to make 
the two payments from her account once the loan had entered it. Whilst there is no certainty 
as to how the fraudsters obtained Mrs Rs card information, I find it likely this was supplied 
along with her personal information when opening her account with the fraudsters.
Considering all the above information, Im satisfied that Mrs R neither applied for, nor agreed 
to, the loan in question. Im also satisfied that shed not benefitted from the funds. I therefore 
find that its unfair she be held liable for it when considering the relevant legislation.
Zopa has pointed out on several occasions that Mrs R was actively looking to invest in 
cryptocurrency which ended up being a fraud. And whilst it sympathised with this fact, it 
shouldnt be held responsible if she has suffered a loss as a result. Whilst I agree with this 
submission, it doesnt reflect the reality of what has occurred here. Mrs R denies applying for 
or authorising the loan. So, she didnt actively seek to take a loan out, nor did she intend to 
use the funds to invest in cryptocurrency. Mrs R did use her own personal funds to invest in 
cryptocurrency prior to the application of the loan, and this turned out to be a fraud. But that 
isnt whats being questioned here.
In the circumstances of this complaint, it appears the fraudsters have taken advantage of 
both the vulnerabilities of the Mrs R and the lack of verification checks carried out by Zopa to 
confirm if Mrs R had made the application, or if someone was using her information without 
her permission; commonly referred to as identity theft.
Putting things right
As I see no compelling evidence to support Miss R authorised the loan to be taken out in her 
name or that she benefitted from it, Zopa should write this debt off and remove any reporting 
of it from her credit file.
I understand Mrs R has made payments on this debt. Zopa should return any payment made 
and pay 8% interest from the date these payments were made to the date it settles the 
complaint to reflect the deprivation of these funds for the period.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Zopa Bank Limited 
to:
Write off the debt
Remove any reporting of it from Mrs Rs credit file
Return any payments made on the debt including interest of 8% simple annual from 
the date those payments were made to the date it settles.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman