DRN-3247719
The complaint
Mr M complains he was charged a cancellation fee from BISL Limited when he requested to 
cancel his motor insurance policy within the cooling-off period. 
What happened
Mr M bought a car in November 2021, and took out a motor insurance policy that day, which 
was arranged and administered by BISL. An upfront payment of £22.13 was taken. Around 
nine days later, Mr M decided to return the car to the dealership for a full refund. So he 
contacted BISL to cancel the policy, as he no longer needed it. 
BISL agreed to process the cancellation, and requested Mr M pay a further £9.03, taking the 
total paid to £31.16. This cost was to reflect the small amount of time on cover owed to his 
insurer, as well as the £25 cancellation fee to BISL. 
Mr M paid the £9.03 as requested, but then raised a complaint. He said he accepts being 
charged for the time on cover, but having spoken to consumer advice, he doesnt feel BISL 
are entitled to charge him the £25 fee, as he was within his 14-day cooling-off period. 
BISL considered Mr Ms complaint, but didnt uphold it. They said they were entitled to 
charge the fee, and the fees were made clear at the point of sale, and within the policy 
documents they provided Mr M. But Mr M remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to 
our service.
An investigator considered Mr Ms complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said 
that the online process Mr M completed showed that a £25 fee was payable, should a 
customer cancel their policy within 14 days of inception. He said this was also set out clearly 
in Mr Ms policy documents. So he didnt think it was unfair for BISL to charge this amount. 
But Mr M remained unhappy, and said the law states that he shouldnt be charged during the 
cooling-off period. So as an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at both what the regulations set out in relation to insurance cancellation fees, as 
well as what was set out by BISL during the sales process, and within its documentation. 
The regulations that apply in this case are set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook, section 7 (ICOBS 7), and it refers to charges during a cooling-off period. 
ICOBS 7 sets out that general insurance policies have a 14-day cooling-off period. And that 
during this period, consumers can be charged a pro-rata premium for the time the policy was 
in force; and an administration fee which is proportionate to the service provided, with no 
element of profit. 
But they also say that a consumer can only be charged an administration/cancellation fee if 
they were told that this would happen when buying the policy. This means the consumer 
would need to be told in the telephone call or online before they agree to buy the policy  not 
just in the terms and conditions sent after the sale was completed.
The point regarding the pro-rata payment relates directly to the payment to the insurer for 
time on cover, and is not in dispute  Mr M, by his own admission, accepts this was 
reasonable. But the second point, and what is in question, relates to the administration for 
the cancellation of the policy. And sets out that any charge applied must be both reasonable, 
and made clear at the point of sale.
The amount BISL has charged in this instance is £25, and they have explained that this is to 
reflect the costs associated with arranging the policy for Mr M with his insurer. I dont think 
this sum is unreasonable for the work involved here. 
BISL have also provided screenshots of the online process Mr M would have gone through 
when taking out the policy. I can see that as part of that process, he wouldve been shown a 
screen which had several sections, covering things such as; the insurers on their panel; how 
the policy price was set, as well as a section titled; no hidden fees. 
The section titled no hidden fees sets out five specific fees on the account, the second of 
which was titled cancellation fee (within 14 days). Noted next to this was a sum of £25. And 
this screen would have been presented to Mr M prior to him agreeing to purchase the policy. 
Im therefore satisfied the fee was brought to Mr Ms attention during the sales process.
Once hed taken out the policy, Mr M was also provided with a policy document. Page 11 of 
that document is titled, Important information about our Insurance Intermediary Services.
Within this page is a section titled Arrangement fee, which states:
If either you or We cancel within 14 days of receiving your policy documentation We 
will charge you a fee of £25 plus the cost for the amount of time you have been 
covered unless you have made a total loss claim in which case no refund will be 
given and all premiums will be due.
So, I think that as well as bringing it to Mr Ms attention during the sales process, BISL also 
made it clear within the policy document, that Mr M would be charged £25 should he cancel 
his policy within 14 days. 
I can understand why Mr M may have initially thought that no charge would be applied, as 
the regulations do set out that a customer should be able to cancel within their cooling-off 
period without penalty  this is clear. However, as Ive set out, they do allow for a business, 
during this period, to charge for any reasonable sum incurred in setting up and concluding 
the contract  so long as theyve made this clear at the point of sale  which I think they 
have. 
So, while I appreciate this may be disappointing for Mr M, I hope Ive been able to explain 
clearly why I think BISL acted fairly in applying the charge they did. So I wont be asking 
BISL to refund it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman