DRN-3520547
The complaint
Mr L complains about charges LeasePlan UK Limited trading as Network applied for
damages when he returned a van it had supplied under a hire agreement.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr L acquired a van using a hire agreement provided by LeasePlan. In 
November 2021 Mr L terminated the agreement early and the van was returned and 
inspected.
Following the inspection, Mr L was charged for the following:
Appearance of van - Dirty - £10
Door LHF  paint chips - £100
B post LH  paint chips - £100
Bumper rear  dented - £100
Door RHR  scratched - £155
Mr L was unhappy with these charges and complained to LeasePlan. It issued its final
response in January 2022. This said, in summary, that it had reviewed the details from the
inspection and it felt all the damage fell outside of fair wear and tear. So, it said Mr L still
owed the £465.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He said all the damage
was fair wear and tear. He said he was never asked to explain the damage. And he said
LeasePlan sold the van without repairing it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said shed reviewed the photos of the
damage from the inspection and compared it to fair wear and tear guidelines from the British
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). Having done so, she said all the damage fell
outside of the guidelines.
Mr L disagreed. He said, in summary, that he had reviewed the photos and thought the
damage was within the guidelines.
I sent Mr L and LeasePlan a provisional decision on 10 May 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr L complains about charges for damage in association with a hire agreement. Entering
into hire agreements such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ls
complaint about LeasePlan.
Ive firstly considered whether LeasePlan could charge Mr L for damage to the van. Looking
at the agreement he signed, this says:
You shall.:
take reasonable care of the Vehicle and keep the Vehicle in good and substantial repair and
condition at all times
If requested you must immediately pay us for:
The costs of repair or replacement of any part(s) or accessories where such repair or
replacement is required as a result of any loss or damage to the Vehicle which we think is in
excess of Fair Wear and Tear
So, I think Mr L agreed to keep the van in good condition and agreed to cover the cost of
repairs if it was returned with damage outside of fair wear and tear.
Ive gone on to consider the photos from the inspection that took place and considered the
BVRLA guidance on fair wear and tear. I should note here that, because Mr L hired a van,
Ive considered the BVRLA Fair Wear & Tear Guide for light commercial vehicles.
Mr L was charged for the van being dirty. The BVRLA guidance says:
The vehicles exterior should be sufficiently clean to allow a detailed inspection.
Im satisfied on balance this wasnt likely the case, so I think its reasonable for LeasePlan to
charge for this.
Mr L was charged for paint chips to the LHF door and the LH B post. In relation to paint
chips, the BVRLA guidelines say:
Chips of 8mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided the base metal or material is not
exposed or rusted
Maximum of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge, and eight chips on any
forward-facing panel
Looking at the photos of the door, I can see over six chips on the door edge. And several
appear to have exposed the base metal. So, Im satisfied this damage falls outside of the
guidance.
Looking at the photo of the B post, I can see over four chips, including a longer bit of
damage Im satisfied has exposed the base metal. It follows Im also satisfied this damage
falls outside of the guidance.
In relation to scratches, the BVRLA says:
scratches and abrasions of 50mm or less are acceptable provided the base metal or
material is not exposed or rusted
Looking at the photos of the door here I can see a scratch which is clearly over 50mm. So,
Im satisfied this also falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines.
Ive then gone on to consider the charge for the dent to the rear bumper. In relation to dents,
our investigator said she thought there was a dent of over 15mm. But, the bumper wasnt
painted. In relation to unpainted mouldings, the BVRLA guidance says:
Scuffs and scratches of 50mm or less are acceptable provided the moulding or trim is not
broken, cracked or deformedLooking at the photos here, I cant see what I would describe as a dent to the bumper. But, I
can see damage where a tow bar has been fitted. There is what appears to be a wire being
ran through the bumper, and the hole it goes through appears to be ripped or torn and looks
unsightly. Given a relatively close up shot was photographed here, along with a
measurement, this makes me think this could be the damage LeasePlan are referring to.
Ive carefully thought about this. There isnt specific guidance in the BVRLA for this type of
issue. But, I need to consider the overall intention behind the guidelines. The BVRLA
guidance explains fair wear and tear occurs when normal usage causes acceptable
deterioration to a vehicle. Thinking about this damage to the bumper, Im satisfied it quite
clearly doesnt fit this general description. And, I think this impacts the appearance of the van
 particularly if the tow bar was removed.
So, considering all of this, even though I dont agree the damage shown meets what
LeasePlan described it as, Im satisfied it still falls outside of fair wear and tear and so its still
fair and reasonable to charge Mr L for it.
Finally, Id like to reassure Mr L that Ive carefully considered everything hes said about this
complaint including all of his comments about the damage and photos. But, Im still satisfied
this all falls outside of fair wear and tear.
I gave both parties two weeks to respond with any further information or evidence. 
Mr L came back and made several points to consider. He said that the tow bar was factory 
fitted so he shouldnt be charged for any damage it caused. And, in summary,  he reiterated 
his comments about the pictures and other damage to the car. He said no damage at all had 
done through to the base metal. And he said none of the damage was outside of the 
guidelines.
LeasePlan didnt initially respond. I then got in touch with LeasePlan following Mr Ls 
response. I explained what hed said about the tow bar being factory fitted and asked 
LeasePlan to provide comments about this. I explained if it didnt provide any comments or 
evidence about this issue that I would likely uphold the complaint and remove this charge. I 
explained this was because it wasnt fair and reasonable to charge Mr L for damage caused 
by a factory fitted option. 
I gave LeasePlan a further deadline of 3 June 2022 to provide anything further. Its 
response, in full, was:
Its the bumper behind the towbar
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ive thought very carefully about the charge to the rear bumper. Having done so, Im satisfied 
its fair and reasonable that this is removed. Ill explain why.
Given LeasePlans very brief response, I still dont know if, when charging for the damage, it 
was for a dent, as described, or the hole as I suspected. But, either way, this wouldnt 
change my opinion. I say this as, if its referring to a dent, I cant see this. And, it provided no 
commentary or evidence to contradict Mr Ls version of events that the towbar was fitted when he got the van. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to charge Mr L for damage 
which was likely there when he acquired the car. So, it follows this charge should be 
removed.
Ive very carefully thought about everything else Mr L said in response to my provisional 
decision. I appreciate he disagrees with my thoughts about the rest of the damage to the 
van. And, Id like to reassure him that Ive carefully gone through all of the photos and 
evidence bearing in mind what he said. 
But, having done so, I still think its fair and reasonable for LeasePlan to charge for the 
remaining damage. This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and 
set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct LeasePlan UK Limited trading as 
Network to put things right by removing the charge for the rear bumper.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman