DRN-4079867
The complaint
Miss R complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) will not refund money she accidentally 
transferred to her daughters Junior Individual Savings Account (JISA).
What happened
In January 2023, Miss R accidentally transferred £8,300 from her Santander account to her 
daughters JISA. She said she was meant to transfer the money to her own account and this 
money was intended for other financial commitments as she had been saving this money for 
some time. 
As soon as she realised her mistake, she contacted Santander. They said based on the 
terms and conditions of the account and the relevant rules set by HM Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC) they were unable to recall the money as withdrawals werent permitted from such 
accounts. 
Miss R said she urgently needed this money back as without it, its causing severe financial 
hardship for her and her daughter. She also explained the impact this situation was having 
on her physical and mental health. 
Unhappy with their response, Miss R referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. They accepted a genuine error had been made 
and was sympathetic to the circumstances. However she concluded deposits into a JISA 
couldnt be reversed even if it had been made in error. She said Santander had acted fairly 
and in line with the terms of account and the rules set by HMRC. 
Miss R disagreed and maintained her position. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
But first, I want to recognise the impact this situation has had on Miss R, not just financially 
but also in terms of her health and well-being. I thank her for her honesty and Im sorry to 
hear what is happening. I appreciate this is a very difficult time and I sympathise for the 
situation she now finds herself in. 
I have no reason to doubt Miss R made a genuine mistake. I acknowledge it was a 
significant amount of money which she had been saving for some time to be used for other 
purposes. So I can understand her worry and upset about having lost access to it and the 
financial impact this will have on her and her family, notably her daughter. 
However when reviewing this case, I must consider whether Santander have acted fairly and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the JISA account. I find they have and I say this 
because the terms of the JISA account Miss R opened for her daughter says:
Any money paid into this account is a gift to the child and cannot be repaid. The money in 
the account belongs to the child and can only be accessed by the child at the age of 18.
It also goes on to say:
Can I withdraw money  No withdrawals are allowed until the account matures into an adult 
cash ISA on the childs 18th birthday (see Withdrawals in exceptional circumstances 
section).
Having read the terms, its clear the money belongs to the child and can only be accessed 
when they turn 18. No withdrawals are permitted unless there are exceptional 
circumstances. Im aware Miss Rs daughter is not yet 18. The terms state an exceptional 
circumstance would be in the event the child becomes terminally ill. Here, the money was 
paid into the JISA account in error which isnt a listed exception.
I find Santanders above terms follow the strict rules that govern these accounts as set by 
HMRC. The government websites which outlines the features and the management of JISA 
accounts says the following:
Request to reverse Junior ISA subscription
When a Junior ISA provider receives a request to reverse a Junior ISA subscription, that was 
paid into a Junior ISA in error by a parent of a child or any other person, they should inform 
the person making the request that their subscription is a gift to a child and it cannot be 
repaid.
From my understanding, Miss R contacted HMRC directly to see if they were willing to make 
an exception and allow Santander to release the funds back to her, but this wasnt agreed. 
Ive also seen a copy of correspondence Santander sent to HMRC to ask whether they 
would authorise the withdrawal. I find this was a fair course of action for Santander to take 
given the circumstances. Although the correspondence hasnt been shared directly with Miss 
R, I can assure her Ive seen it. Having read it, Im satisfied Santander provided a fair 
summary which reflected Miss Rs individual circumstances and the severe financial 
implication it was having on her. However in response, HMRC rejected the request to 
authorise the withdrawal and confirmed their decision couldnt be appealed.
Based on the above, Im satisfied Santander acted reasonably and within the terms and 
regulations of the account which they were obliged to follow. So I cant say they did anything 
wrong.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss R was hoping for. Again, I recognise the distress 
and impact this situation is currently having on her and the likely future financial implications. 
But regrettably, Santander cant do anything to return the money so I wont be asking them 
to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Simona ReeseOmbudsman