DRN-3784597
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Aviva Insurance Limited saying it mis-sold Legal Expenses 
Insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have already brought a complaint to us about the handling of the claim they 
made to Aviva. This complaint was the subject of a final decision. Their complaint was partly 
upheld. To differentiate between the two complaints, Ill refer to the complaint that has 
already been decided as the old complaint and the one I am considering as the new 
complaint.
In 2013 Mr and Mrs H received a quote for a home insurance policy online and the final 
payment of premiums was made over the phone with no changes to the original quotation 
received. Unfortunately, the recording of their call with Aviva in 2013 is no longer available. 
This policy included LEI cover.
Mr and Mrs H believe the LEI policy was mis-sold. They think this because having seen how 
their claim was handled in practice  for example by getting a legal opinion from an 
unnamed lawyer and Avivas agents varying and overriding the terms - they say the wording 
in the policy was misleading and unfair. They also think that the standard terms of 
appointment contain conditions which were unclear, unfair and misleading. And that had 
they been aware of the content of this document at the time they were considering whether 
to buy the policy or not, they would not have bought it.
The investigator didnt recommend the new complaint be upheld. She thought that most of 
Mr and Mrs Hs concerns have arisen because of the issues they experienced when they 
made their legal expenses claim in 2016. And as an ombudsman had already looked at the 
handling of their claim this service wouldnt be able to consider or comment on any issues an 
ombudsman had already decided and made a final decision on.
She thought that the sale of the policy was on a non-advised sale basis. Therefore, this 
services expectation would be that the business would provide the customer with 
information thats clear, fair and not misleading, so the customer can make an informed 
choice about whether the policy theyre buying is right for them. The investigator was 
satisfied on balance that before Mr and Mrs H decided to buy the policy, they had been 
given access to the insurance product information document and the legal services policy 
booklet. She noted that in practice Mr and Mrs H found the information in the policy 
documents contradictory or misleading but she thought that without the element of hindsight, 
she couldnt safely conclude that their needs at the time were so specific, that based on the 
information Aviva had provided in these documents, they couldnt have made an informed 
choice about whether the policy was right for them. She said she had not seen any evidence 
Aviva sold a policy Mr and Mrs H couldnt use and the fact they have had some benefit of the 
policy makes it difficult for us to say Aviva sold them a policy which was of no use to them 
and one they couldnt have used as a result of their circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators view. They believe that Aviva did not tell them 
everything it should have done about the policy and that it failed to highlight some significant 
terms. And that Aviva provided them with information which was untrue or misleading. 
Therefore, they believe Aviva mis-sold the LEI policy.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
Under the rules that govern our service (the DISP Rules), we may decide not to look at a 
complaint in some circumstances  including where the subject matter of the complaint has 
previously been considered by our service. The handling of the complaint was looked at in 
the old complaint and an ombudsman issued a final decision addressing the points raised 
about the claim. So, I wont be looking at the handling of the claim here.
Mr and Mrs H have provided lengthy submissions. We are an informal dispute resolution 
service and so I will only deal with their points briefly although I have read them carefully. I 
intend no discourtesy by this, but it merely reflects our informal nature. Before I do so, Ill 
confirm that I agree with the investigator that the sale of the policy was on a non-advised 
basis and that this has the implications that she set out in her view.
Avivas failure to name the barrister who gave the advice that the claim didnt have good 
prospects of success.
The policy terms set out how a claim will be dealt with, including that it will be referred to a 
lawyer to assess the prospects of success. I think the policy is clear about this and Mr and 
Mrs H had enough information to know how a claim would be handled. I dont think I can say 
that it was mis-selling that Mr and Mrs H werent informed that the person giving the 
prospects assessment wouldnt be named. Mr and Mrs H have said that they are laypeople. I 
cannot see that at the time of sale that had this information been shared with them they 
would have decided that they would not go ahead and buy the policy.
One of the reasons Mr and Mrs H wanted to know the name of the barrister is so that they 
could check whether the person specialises in the law relating to the claim. They say that if 
the barrister who gave the negative prospects assessment wasnt suitably qualified then the 
information in their policy is untrue and the policy would be mis-sold. But that isnt right. 
Failure to comply with the terms of the policy would be mishandling not mis-selling. Mr and 
Mrs H have now, it seems, been given the name of the barrister who gave the advice that 
the claim didnt have good prospects of success. They have comments about the barristers 
experience and the quality of his advice. But as I said I cannot consider these as  to the 
extent that they relate to actions of Aviva or its agent - they would be a complaint about the 
handling of the claim not about the mis-selling. And to the extent they relate to a complaint 
about the barrister, I have no jurisdiction over him.
Avivas failure to provide the standard terms of appointment on request
This is a complaint about handling of the claim not mis-selling.
The standard terms of appointment were blatantly unclear, unfair and misleading.
Aviva sold them a policy which didnt set out an hourly rate although the current version of 
the policy does do this. Instead Avivas agents set out a rate in the terms of appointment 
which Mr and Mrs H didnt receive until some period after they had made their claim. Mr and Mrs H believed the hourly rate set out in the terms was non-negotiable and now they have 
found out that it was negotiable. They regard this as extremely unprofessional.
Mr and Mrs H have referred to decisions that this service has made where we have referred 
to policies which didnt set out hourly rates. Each of our decisions are based on the 
individual facts of that decision. One of the facts of this case is that Aviva has already paid 
out far more than the premiums it received for the policy from Mr and Mrs H. This matters 
because  if were satisfied that the policy was mis-sold and that the customer would not 
have bought the insurance but for the mis-sale  our usual approach to mis-selling is to 
consider a refund of premiums. We do this because we are looking to put the consumer in 
the position they would have been if the mis-selling hadnt occurred. We are not looking to 
put the consumer in the position they would have been in if they had bought what they 
thought they were being sold. And if a consumer has had the benefit of some aspect of the 
policy  as is the case here  we would deduct the value of any benefit they had received. In 
this case this would mean that any redress I might order would be wiped out by the benefit 
Mr and Mrs H had already received.
I think the failure to say what the hourly rate was might amount to mis-selling as it is 
arguable Mr and Mrs H were not able to make an informed decision. But because there has 
already been a pay out under the policy which exceeds the premiums they paid prior to the 
claim, even if I found mis-selling I would not make an award.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H paid £2,460 to their barrister and received only £1,950 but the 
amount they received was considered under the old complaint and they did get the benefit of 
seeing this opinion before they decided how they were going to proceed with Mr Hs 
employment claim. The fact that they already had their solicitors advice doesnt persuade 
me that they didnt get some benefit from the barristers advice.
They say that had they not spent this money at the time they would have used it on the 
employment claim. Im not sure that is right. If Mr and Mrs Hs resources were so 
constrained, I think they would have preserved them for the employment claim and not spent 
them on the second opinion.
The process for when the consumer doesnt agree with the prospects assessment stated in 
the policy was not the process followed by Avivas agents at the time of their claim.
The point about the process followed by Avivas agents contrasting with the policy wording is 
a complaint about mishandling not mis-selling. I know Mr and Mrs H think Aviva is 
deliberately and repeatedly ignoring and failing to abide by its own policy terms and 
conditions and so this clearly amounts to mis-selling. But I think a complaint about not 
following the terms of a policy is mishandling and not mis-selling. I dont think Aviva intended 
not to follow its own wording when it sold the policy. I think not following the wording of the 
policy is far more likely to be a break down in effective communication between it and its 
agents.
Mr and Mrs H have recently referred to being told they entered into a contract with Avivas 
agents. I havent asked for more information about this because this would be a complaint 
about the handling of their claim and not about mis-selling and so is not something Ill be 
considering in this decision.
Aviva didnt provide expert help when you need it the most
This is a complaint about what happened after the claim was made and so is a complaint 
about mishandling not mis-selling.Failure to respond to the mis-selling complaint in a timely manner
Aviva has paid £100 for the delay in responding to the complaint about mis-selling. Mr and 
Mrs H have explained how distressing this period was for them. They have also suggested 
that the failure to deal with the complaint in a timely manner was discrimination under the 
Equality Act 2010.
Based on what I have seen I have no doubt Mr and Mrs H have experienced considerable 
distress. It is always difficult to separate out what is distress caused by the legal action itself 
and what is distress caused by the failings of an insurer. In this case it is further complicated 
by the fact that I must look at the failings of the insurer only in relation to the mis-selling 
complaint. Overall, I am  based on what I have seen so far - satisfied that the compensation 
Mr and Mrs H have received for distress and inconvenience for the new complaint is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs H did not. They provided a lengthy submission. Much of what they have said 
repeats comments they have already made. They have made the following specific points 
about the provisional decision:
The barrister used by Aviva does not have employment law listed as one of his areas 
of expertise on the Bar Standards Board register. From this it appears that they were 
not provided with a specialist in employment law as expected from the LEI policy 
wording.
The use of the phrase expert help when you need it the most was a powerful trigger 
to them buying the policy. But their experience of the policy is that this is a 
misrepresentation.
Their concerns regarding the expert help were further endorsed having recently 
received documentation sent to them by Avivas trusted lawyers stating that they 
would not necessarily be bound by the barristers opinion (i.e. the so called expert) 
and that Aviva should advise the insured of this.  Aviva did not follow this advice. 
They found Avivas agents expectation that they would relay verbal information to 
the direct access barrister to be extremely unprofessional. They felt Aviva should 
have communicated with the barrister directly as it originally advised it would, 
especially as it was Aviva who was required to enter into a contract with him not 
them.
They say they would most definitely have used the money they spent on the second 
opinion on the employment claim.
They believe that the final decision following the old complaint where the 
ombudsman agrees that there were failings by Aviva and states that it could have 
made clearer that it would have reimbursed the cost of the review if it was supportive, 
is evidence of mis-selling as they do not believe the ombudsmans finding is in 
accordance with the policy document wording.
They note my comment that I dont think Aviva intended not to follow its own wording 
when it sold the policy, I think not following the wording of the policy is far more likely 
to be a break down in effective communication between it and its agents. They say if 
this is the case then they consider this to be seriously unfair and completely 
unacceptable and surely amounts to mishandling and mis-selling.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this complaint. I also appreciate that 
they did not choose to have the complaint separated so that the mis-selling part of their 
complaint is considered separately. I have carefully read their lengthy submission and I note 
that they havent responded to the part of my decision where I explained that 
our usual approach to mis-selling is to consider a refund of premiums. We do this because 
we are looking to put the consumer in the position they would have been if the mis-selling 
hadnt occurred. We are not looking to put the consumer in the position they would have 
been in if they had bought what they thought they were being sold. And if a consumer has 
had the benefit of some aspect of the policy  as is the case here  we would deduct the 
value of any benefit they had received. In this case this would mean that any redress I might 
order would be wiped out by the benefit Mr and Mrs H had already received. 
We are an informal dispute resolution service and so whilst I have considered fully the points 
they have made throughout the complaint I wont be responding in as much detail as they 
have. 
Their complaint regarding the barristers experience is a complaint about the handling of 
their claim. 
The quality of any help they received following their claim is a complaint about the handling 
of their claim.
The expectations around communication with their barrister is a complaint about the 
handling of the complaint.
I appreciate they say they would have spent the money they spent on the second opinion on 
the employment claim. But the failure of Aviva to pay for the second opinion sooner relates 
to the handling of the claim and is not a complaint about mis-selling. I note further that in the 
decision on the old complaint the ombudsman said: there was a route to have a barrister 
appointed under the policy, by having them consider the terms of business with Aviva and 
respond. And this wasnt taken at the time, so I dont think Avivas lack of clarity about them 
paying for the barristers opinion impacts on whether they are liable for Mr Hs perceived 
shortfall in the settlement achieved. So, I cant hold Aviva responsible for any perceived 
shortfall.
The version of the policy in force at the last renewal before the claim said about a review of 
the prospects of success following a second opinion: We will pay for the costs of this review 
and should they decide in your favour we will also pay any cost that you incurred for your 
chosen lawyers second opinion. I do not therefore agree that the policy Mr and Mrs H had 
was unclear about what would happen regarding the costs of the second opinion in the event 
that a review following that second opinion concluded there was prospects of success.
They note my comment that I dont think Aviva intended not to follow its own wording when 
it sold the policy, I think not following the wording of the policy is far more likely to be a break 
down in effective communication between it and its agents. They say if this is the case then 
they consider this to be seriously unfair and completely unacceptable and surely amounts to 
mishandling and mis-selling. But a breakdown in communication and a failure to follow the 
policy wording are both complaints about mishandling not mis-selling.
Mr and Mrs H have said that depending on my decision they may take their complaint further. I appreciate their frustration but for the reasons Ive explained their complaint isnt 
one I can fairly uphold.
My final decision
I do not consider the complaint about issues relating to the handling of the claim is one we 
should consider, and I do not intend to uphold the complaint about how the policy was sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman