DRN-4048963
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr M opened a credit card account with Sainsburys in November 2020. His credit limit was 
£8,500.
 
Mr M says that Sainsburys acted irresponsibly by providing him with the credit card with 
such a high limit. Mr M says he got into financial difficulty as a result. He asks that 
Sainsburys pay him back the full balance of his credit card plus any interest and charges 
along with statutory interest.
Sainsburys says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr M and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr M. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. They thought that given the 
amount it was proposing to lend to Mr M, Sainsburys should have done more checks. And if 
it had done more checks, it would have seen information which would have indicated that Mr 
M wouldnt be able to pay back the borrowing and cover his existing debts in a sustainable 
way. 
Sainsburys disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of 
any financial strain.
 
As Sainsburys disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ms complaint. Having 
done so, I agree with our adjudicators view.
Sainsburys needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Sainsburys should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include 
things like understanding the total amount Mr M borrowed, the length of time Mr M had been 
indebted and how much disposable income he had. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
 
Mr M declared an annual income of £27,000 which is about £1,850 net a month. He also 
disclosed housing costs of £338 a month and that he was single with no dependents. 
Sainsburys says its own checks showed that Mr Ms income was likely accurate within a 
broad band of possible income. 
Sainsburys says it also completed credit checks which didnt show any arrears, defaults or 
County Court Judgments (CCJs). It hasnt provided easily identifiable evidence of the 
checks, but I am prepared to accept that Sainsburys saw that Mr Ms credit file showed he 
had a total of £17,750 in unsecured borrowing elsewhere, from which it estimated the cost of 
servicing that debt would be less than £400 a month. This seems low to me and its not clear 
how Sainsburys reached this conclusion. I think if Mr M had been paying his unsecured 
lending (that is, loans and credit cards) off at a rate of less than 3% a month it wouldnt have 
been repaid within a reasonable time. I think it would have been more reasonable to assume 
Mr M needed to repay his other unsecured borrowing at a rate of at least 3% a month which 
would make his monthly repayments on that around £530 a month. Sainsburys also 
estimated Mr Ms essential expenditure from Office of National Statistics data at around 
£495 a month. And it worked out that if Mr M spent up to his credit limit at its highest interest 
rate his minimum repayments would be £303 a month.
Taking all that into account, Sainsburys considered that Mr M had a disposable income of 
just under £300 a month which it submits made the lending affordable. I think it would have 
been less than that, as Ive explained that I think he would have needed to pay about £130 
more a month to service his existing debt. However, this doesnt really make a difference as 
I still think given the level of borrowing Mr M already had compared to his income and the 
amount Sainsburys were planning to offer him was enough for Sainsburys to need to make 
further checks on Mr Ms circumstances. 
I cant say for sure what further checks Sainsburys might have done. There is no 
prescriptive list of checks. But I think at the very least Sainsburys ought to have checked Mr 
Ms income.
 
Our adjudicator asked for evidence of Mr Ms income at the time of his application. Mr M 
provided his payslips which were also shared with Sainsburys. This showed that his income 
was lower than that he declared at application. His net weekly salary was about £400 
meaning his monthly net income was about £1,600 to £1,700. Using this income in 
conjunction with Sainsburys estimations of expenditure would have meant Mr M had 
disposable income of only £100 to £150 a month or, if taking my assessment of the amount 
Mr M had to pay to service his existing debts into account, a nil figure. I think this shows that 
had Sainsburys completed necessary and proportionate checks it would have understood 
that the new lending wasnt affordable or sustainable for Mr M. 
Following our adjudicators view Sainsburys made further representations. It said its old 
income verification system in place at the time of application wouldnt have picked up the 
inaccurate income information. This doesnt make a difference as Ive explained already I 
think there were a combination of factors that ought to have made Sainsburys do further 
checks and I have used the higher income figure to decide this.
 
Sainsburys submitted that the credit card was designed for people with existing debt. There 
was a 0% balance transfer offer available, which if Mr M had used (which he did) would have 
allowed him to pay off his existing debts more quickly. If he had paid £472 a month for the 18 months of the offer he would have cleared a substantial amount of his existing debt. But 
Sainsburys couldnt know that Mr M was going to do that. It had to work on the basis that Mr 
M was not going to use the credit card to pay his existing debt but for new spending. And by 
using the balance transfer facility, obviously he would have been freeing up existing credit 
limits elsewhere. 
So, on balance, on the information available to me, I dont think Sainsburys completed 
necessary and proportionate checks. If it had done so, I think it would have understood that 
the borrowing was unaffordable for Mr M. I think Mr M lost out as a result of what 
Sainsburys did wrong. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Sainsburys ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it
to be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr
M should pay back the amount he has borrowed. Therefore, Sainsburys should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not
already refunded) that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr M along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Sainsburys should also remove all adverse information
regarding this account from Mr Ms credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Sainsburys should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount.
Once Mr M has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the
account should be removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sainsburys to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks
for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so
after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about unaffordable lending and direct Sainsburys Bank plc to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman