DRN-3165391
The complaint
Mr K complains there was a delay in being able to sell shares held through Equiniti Financial 
Services Limited (Equiniti) in his self invested personal pension (SIPP). 
What happened
The facts arent in dispute. Mr K has a share dealing account with Equiniti as part of his 
SIPP. On 6 August 2020 Mr K purchased shares in a stock Ill call T. The shares settled in 
his account on 10 August 2020. On 18 August 2020 Equiniti sent Mr K a corporate action 
notice notifying him that a stock-split had been approved and each shareholder would 
receive a dividend of four additional shares of common stock for each share held as at 21 
August 2020. The letter set our an Expected timetable, saying that trading on the stock-split 
would begin on 31 August 2020. Mr K purchased more shares in stock in T on 18 August 
2020, which settled in his account on 20 August 2020. Mr K became aware of a rights issue, 
due on 1 September 2020. His view was that it was a dilution of shares and might lead to a 
fall in value. But he was unable to trade his shares until 3 September 2020 as the stock-split 
had not yet been added to his account. By then the value of his holding in T had fallen (I 
understand from around $174,300 to around $142,450). 
Mr K complained to Equiniti about the delay in settling his shares on his account. He felt 
Equiniti hadnt warned there was a possibility hed be unable to trade. If it had done, hed 
have sold his shares on 28 August 2020, before the stock-split. He also queried the value of 
stock that was showing on his account.
Equiniti didnt uphold the complaint and said, in summary: 
The corporate action notice had set out an expected timetable, but this was clearly 
an estimate.
The stock wasnt actually received from the clearing agent until 3 September 2020,
and was credited to Mr Ks account that day.
Due to how the stocks were sent, it wouldnt have been possible for Equiniti to have
credited the account any sooner and so it couldnt be accountable for any losses.
Equiniti accepted that the notifications shouldve been clearer and Mr K kept better 
updated. The failure to do that meant he had to make unnecessary contact with 
Equiniti.
The stock price took two to three days to be automatically amended by the supplier 
and should now be correct.
Equiniti offered £50 to acknowledge that the notifications couldve been clearer. 
Mr K rejected that and Equinitis increased offer of £100. He referred his complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but he didnt uphold the complaint.  
He noted that, although Mr K had queried the stock valuation, it was understood that had 
corrected itself and so the investigator hadnt looked into that. The investigator said, to 
uphold the complaint, hed need to be satisfied that Equiniti gave Mr K some assurance hed 
be able to trade his new shares sooner than he did or that Equiniti was responsible for the 
delay in crediting his account. 
The corporate action notice issued on 18 August 2020 said the Expected date when Mr Ks 
shares could be traded would be 31 August 2020. No guarantees or assurances as to when 
trading could start were given. Mr K had purchased his shares shortly prior to the corporate 
action. For both purchases, the time, from placing his trade to settlement, was two working 
days. It was reasonable to say hed have some understanding of the timescales. As the 
stock-split shares were due to be distributed after trading on Friday 28 August 2020, there 
was the potential that the funds wouldnt be settled by Monday 31 August 2020.
The investigator referred to the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account and what was said 
about payments and entitlements relating to corporate actions and which included a warning 
that additional steps to process might be required and so there was potential for delay. The 
funds were initially expected on 31 August 2020 and were actually received on 3 September 
2020. Equiniti wasnt responsible for that delay and couldnt have credited Mr Ks account 
until it had received the money. 
 
Equiniti didnt give any assurance or guarantee that the shares would be available on any 
given date and the terms and conditions make it clear that delays can occur. Equiniti didnt 
have control over when funds would be available and wasnt responsible for the availability 
of the stock. Equiniti couldnt be held responsible for any losses Mr K had incurred. Equiniti 
had offered £100 for any trouble and upset caused. Although Mr K didnt accept that offer, 
Equiniti had confirmed that it was still open should Mr K want to accept it. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view. He maintained Equiniti shouldve made it clear to 
him in the corporate notification dated 18 August that delays in dealing the shares could be 
possible. Mr K had no experience of stock-splits but Equiniti did, as evidenced in the small 
print in the terms and conditions. It was unreasonable for Mr K, a retail investor, to have a 
thorough knowledge of the terms and conditions. Although the delay may not have been 
caused by Equiniti, the communication to investors about stock-splits and potential delays 
was Equinitis responsibility. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view and the reasons he gave as to why the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I dont have much to add.
Mr Ks position is that he relied on Equinitis letter of 18 August 2020 and that hed have 
acted differently if that letter had made it clear that there might be a delay. Equiniti has 
accepted that its letter of 18 August 2020 couldve been clearer and that it couldve done 
more to keep customers informed. And that, going forwards, it seems that Equinitis 
communications will be clearer. 
But, although I recognise that Equiniti has accepted that it didnt communicate as well as it 
shouldve done, that doesnt mean it would be fair to uphold the complaint. Equinitis letter of 
18 August 2020 informed Mr K of the corporate action  the stock-split  and set out an 
Expected timetable. No guarantee or assurance was given that events  which were 
outside Equinitis control  would actually proceed accordingly. Although Mr K based his decision not to sell his shares before the corporate action on what 
the letter said, I think he knew or ought to have known, because the timescale set out was 
expected or anticipated, that things might take longer. In the circumstances, I dont think it 
would be fair to say Equiniti is responsible for any losses Mr K has suffered because there 
was a delay which was outside Equinitis control and not its responsibility. 
I note whats been said about Mr K not having had any experience with this sort of situation. 
And why he considers it unfair for Equiniti, the expert in the matter, to rely on the detail of its 
terms and conditions. But I havent given much weight to what the terms and conditions say. 
I think the complaint turns more on the letter and the fact that the timescale set out was how 
it was anticipated that the matter would proceed and not definite or set in stone. 
All in all, Im unable to say Equiniti is responsible for any financial loss Mr K has suffered 
because there was a delay in being able to trade the shares or because Mr K didnt sell the 
shares before the stock-split. 
I know Mr K will be disappointed but Im unable to uphold his complaint. I think the £100 
offered for any inconvenience is fair and reasonable. Had Equinitis communications been 
clearer Mr K may not have had the inconvenience of having to contact Equiniti to clarify what 
had happened. And any distress or disappointment wouldve been avoided too. 
My final decision
Equiniti Financial Services Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr K £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Equiniti Financial Services Limited should pay Mr K £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman