DRN-2863655
The complaint
Mr C has complained about commission that was paid to Elevation Wealth Management Ltd 
in relation to his pension plan.
What happened
In 2009, Mr C set up a pension with Hartford Life (now Hawthorn Life) after taking advice 
from a company Ill refer to as Company A. Trail commission was paid from his pension to 
Company A. Company A was purchased by Elevation in 2012 and the trail commission was 
thereafter paid to Elevation. In May 2016, Elevation wrote to Mr C to tell him about its 
acquisition of Company A and to offer Mr C a free financial review. Mr C didnt respond to 
this. In 2019, after reviewing his pension arrangements, Mr C wrote to Hawthorn Life 
requesting it to stop commission payments to Elevation. He also requested information on 
the amount of commission that had been paid to Elevation.
Mr C complained to Elevation shortly afterwards. He said, in brief, that just over £2,000 had 
been taken from his policy and paid as commission to Elevation. He didnt think this was fair 
because he says he hadnt been told about how much was being paid from his pension in 
this way and because Elevation hadnt provided him with any service since acquiring 
Company A. 
In response, Elevation said that the commission was in respect of Mr Cs original advice 
which it was entitled to receive and which wasnt contingent on providing an ongoing service. 
It offered to provide Mr C with financial advice and told him he should contact the pension 
provider (Hawthorn Life) if he wanted to cancel further commission payments.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. Elevation expanded on its thinking. It said, in 
brief, that receiving trail commission wasnt prohibited until after the Retail Distribution 
Review (RDR) of 2012. It says trail commission arranged before then, as was the case with 
Mr Cs policy, can continue even after the RDR. It says its acquisition of Company A doesnt 
change anything in this respect  the acquiring firm is still entitled to the trail commission that 
had previously been agreed upon. 
Our investigator said Elevations receipt of commission wasnt, in itself, a problem. But he 
said Elevation had to abide by the regulators principles, which, among other things, requires 
firms to have due regard for their customers interests and information needs. With this in 
mind, the investigator concluded Elevation should have told Mr C that it was receiving 
commission payments in relation to his pension when it took over Company A. If it had done 
so, he thought Mr C would, most likely, have requested a stop to the payments. The 
complaint was upheld. 
Elevation maintains its position so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The RDR aimed, amongst other things, to increase the transparency and fairness of adviser 
fees and the services provided in return for those fees. But Mr Cs pension was arranged 
before the RDR and I agree with our investigator, and Elevation, that this means the rules 
allow for the trail commission that Mr C arranged with Company A to continue to be paid 
post-RDR and for Elevation to receive that commission from the point it acquired 
Company A. In Elevations view, this should be the end of the matter.
However, as our investigator pointed out, this isnt the end of the matter. Firms also have to 
adhere to the regulators principles. The regulator when Elevation acquired Company A was 
the Financial Services Authority (FSA). It was succeeded by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
the FCA, in 2013. The FSA/FCA handbook has 11 principles, including the following: 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Principle 7  A  firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr C says he was a friend of the adviser from Company A and that they met up regularly, 
usually around the time that annual statements were sent. So I think Mr C would have 
considered it important to have been informed that Elevation had acquired Company A and 
that commission payments that were previously being paid to Company A were now being 
paid to a completely different company that Mr C had no previous dealings with. I think he 
would have wanted to know that those commission payments could continue even without 
Elevation providing further services. And I think Elevation should, reasonably, have known 
all this  or put itself in a position to know all this.    
However, there doesnt appear to have been anything to show that Elevation did keep Mr C 
informed in this way. It wrote to Mr C in 2016, but this letter just said it had taken over 
Company A and that Mr C should contact it if he wanted to arrange a free financial review. 
There was no mention that commission was being paid to Elevation, or that it would continue 
to be paid if Mr C chose not to take any action. Furthermore, the letter was nearly four years 
after it had acquired Company A so even if it had been more thorough, it would have still 
come far too late. And even though Hartford Life provided Mr C with annual statements, and 
wrote to him to say that the servicing of the plan had transferred, I havent seen anything to 
make me think Mr C was made aware that Elevation was earning commission in relation to 
his pension.  
In the circumstances, I dont think Elevation can, reasonably, be said to have taken into 
consideration Principles 6 and 7. I fail to see how it was paying due regard to Mr Cs 
interests by not informing him that it was receiving commission payments in relation to his 
pension. By extension, I fail to see how it paid due regard to Mr Cs information needs given 
its lack of communication in this area. 
Elevation has provided us with a copy of a FSA policy statement (PS12/13) to support its 
case about its right to receive trail commission. However, whilst I take on board what 
Elevation has pointed us to, Im also in agreement with our investigator that the policy 
statement also refers to the responsibilities firms have to communicate clearly and to deal 
with their clients in an open and honest way: 
We also received requests for clarification on the following pointsAdvisers should be required to remind clients of trail commission they are receiving
and discuss with them why an existing product may be better than a cheaper post-RDR 
alternative which does not pay commission  The Consumer Panel and one insurer 
suggested that communications to customers should cover existing trail commission on a 
product. We have not added specific guidance on this point, as we consider that the 
overarching requirement in COBS 4.2.1R for communications to clients to be clear, 
fair and not misleading and Principle 6 require firms to deal openly and honestly with 
their clients. [my emphasis].
I think the above is clear. The regulator always intended firms to deal with consumers in an 
open and fair manner with regards to trail commission and to communicate with them 
clearly. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied Elevation failed to do any of this.  
If Elevation had paid due regard to Mr Cs interests, and communicated with him more 
thoroughly when it acquired Company A, I consider it likely that he would have cancelled the 
commission payments. I say this because Hawthorn Life has confirmed that Mr C could have 
cancelled the commission payments from the point Company A was acquired and because 
Mr C went on to do just that when he found out they were still being paid (in 2019). 
For the avoidance of doubt, earning commission from pre-RDR business, and earning that 
commission without providing an ongoing service, arent, in themselves, the problem here. 
The problem is that Elevation allowed a situation to develop whereby Mr C was deprived of 
information that he would reasonably have wanted to know. Mr C was financially 
disadvantaged by not having this information. And I think Elevation should, reasonably, have 
realised this or put itself in a position to realise this. In the circumstances, its difficult to 
argue Elevations actions were in line with the regulators principles.
I accept its possible Mr C originally agreed with Company A to defer some of the initial 
commission that was due when the policy was set up and instead agreed to pay that 
commission over the life of the policy. In this scenario, it could be argued that it doesnt 
matter that Mr C wasnt made aware that commission was being paid to Elevation, or that 
commission would be paid without any service being provided in return, because the 
commission was payment for that original advice which is something Mr C agreed to and 
should, reasonably, pay for.
Unfortunately, there arent any records to show what Mr C agreed with Company A. 
However, both Mr C and Elevation have provided their recollections. As I said above, Mr C 
says he was a friend of the adviser from Company A and that they met up regularly. 
Elevation has a member of staff who was previously working for Company A who recalls 
Company A as not offering an ongoing annual service although the adviser in question was 
said to have met clients regularly in order to generate further business. 
I think its fair to say from the above that Mr C had a relatively close, ongoing, relationship 
with Company A and that he perceived there to be at least some benefit from that 
relationship. The fact that Mr C hasnt complained about the commission payments he paid 
before Elevation took over Company A would seem to support this. So I come back to what I 
said before which is that Mr C most likely would have wanted to know commission payments 
were no longer being paid to Company A but were, instead, being paid to Elevation  and 
could be stopped. By extension, Elevation, with the FSA/FCAs principles in mind, should 
have done more to keep Mr C informed of all this when it acquired Company A. 
In response to the investigators assessment, Elevation argued that it couldnt tell Mr C about 
the commission payments because this would have been tantamount to advice which it 
wasnt in a position to provide because Mr C hadnt signed up for that service:But you are telling me that we should be communicating with [Mr C] about a feature that 
could improve his retirement position  and that is advice. Again, we will not distribute advice 
to improve a position without first engaging and agreeing to our terms.
I think this comment shows Elevation would have known that it had information that would 
have benefited Mr C. I think this rather proves the point that Elevation didnt pay due regard 
to Mr Cs interests or communicate clearly enough with him given it chose not to share this 
information with him. And on the issue of whether providing this information constituted 
advice, I dont think that conclusion can, reasonably, be reached. And it would seem 
Elevation agrees. In its final response to Mr Cs complaint, it said the following:
You have referred to the commission we have been receiving, but this is in accordance with 
the agency terms between ourselves and the providers concerned. This commission was in 
respect of the original policy recommendation made by [Company A] and is not contingent 
on providing you with an ongoing service.
If you no longer want us to receive this commission, please get in touch with the providers 
and instruct them accordingly.
So Elevation told Mr C about its commission arrangements anyway and, in so doing, would 
have told him information that could improve his retirement position. So it evidently doesnt 
think (and I agree) that providing information along these lines constitutes advice.
  
Elevation has also argued that it offered to advise Mr C in 2016 but it wasnt something Mr C 
was interested in. It says that Mr C was therefore responsible for understanding and 
managing his pension from this point on and any subsequent losses could have been 
prevented. I agree in so far as Mr C would, most likely, have realised he was paying 
commission earlier if he had engaged Elevation, or another adviser, earlier on. However, I 
dont think there was any obligation on Mr Cs part to engage an adviser at any particular 
point. This isnt to downplay the important role financial advice plays. Its just that it was 
Mr Cs prerogative to decide when to take financial advice. 
Finally, Elevation has questioned whether Mr C could have turned off commission when it 
acquired Company A and, if he could, whether he would have benefited anyway. It argues 
providers sometimes pocket the commission themselves to compensate for the increased 
contact theyre likely to have with a client when a financial adviser is removed from an 
account. Hawthorn Life has confirmed Mr C could have turned off commission when 
Elevation acquired Company A and Mr C would have benefited from doing so.
It follows from the above that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Elevation must put things right for 
Mr C by following the approach outlined below.
Putting things right
Elevation Wealth Management Ltd should establish the number and type of additional units 
Mr Cs pension would now hold if commission hadnt been paid to Elevation. It should then 
pay to Hawthorn Life whatever sum is required to purchase those units on Mr Cs behalf, 
taking account of tax relief and charges if applicable.
If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a deduction of 15%. The 
payment would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would 
be tax free and the rest would have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely tax paying status 
in retirement  presumed to be 20%, so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.Elevation Wealth Management Ltd should also pay Mr C compensation of £200 for the
distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Elevation Wealth Management Ltd must compensate Mr C in line with the approach outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman