DRN-3584000
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the service theyve received from Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Theyre unhappy with the performance of their investments, lack of contact from their 
relationship manager and the fees theyve been charged. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O were customers of Gerrard Investment Management (GIM) - a subsidiary of 
Barclays. In 2014 they were moved from GIM to Barclays Private Client Service (PCS). 
Theyve said that since moving to the PCS, the level of service theyve received, and the 
performance of their investments had fallen short of what they would expect. They discussed 
this with their relationship managers in 2014 and 2015 and raised a formal complaint in 
2016. They also said that due to the issues, they were unwilling to pay the management fees 
that were due. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint as they thought the portfolio had been managed in line 
with the mandate that Mr and Mrs O had agreed to, and it had performed broadly in line with 
the benchmark. They were unable to agree to a reduction in management fees as a result. 
However, they offered £100 compensation for delays in investigating the complaint.
There was correspondence between both parties over the next couple of years relating to 
the complaint and Mr and Mrs O raised further queries about credit notes that Barclays had 
sent them. Barclays still didnt think the complaint should be upheld but offered a further 
£150 for not fully explaining the credit notes in their communications.
A follow up complaint was made, and Barclays issued a further final response in 2017. They 
still didnt think the complaint should be upheld but they addressed similar complaint points 
as before and Mr and Mrs Os concerns about authority to debit fees from their ISAs. 
Mr and Mrs O then brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of 
our investigators. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld and said, in 
summary:
Service Issues
oShe hadnt seen anything to suggest that Barclays hadnt managed the 
accounts as they should have done. She noted that Mr and Mrs O had asked 
for face to face meetings, but didnt think this was a service which was 
available under PCS. Therefore, when Barclays attempted to make contact 
by telephone this was all that was required of them. She also noted that a 
face to face meeting did take place in July 2017.
Terms and Conditions updates 
oShe noted that on 9 March 2015 Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs O about 
updated terms and conditions - due to having to comply with changes to 
client money rules. However, the changes didnt affect the way Mr and Mrs 
Os investments were managed. There was a deadline of 20 May 2015 to 
decline the terms. 
oThere were further updates in December 2015 regarding charges, payments 
and interest. There was a deadline of 1 April 2016 to decline those new 
terms. 
oThe investigator thought that Barclays had provided Mr and Mrs O with 
enough notice of any potential changes and she hadnt seen anything to 
suggest that theyd chosen to decline any of the new terms.
Performance
oThe investigator noted that Mr and Mrs O had agreed for their portfolios to be 
managed on a discretionary basis using a medium/high risk strategy. She 
thought that the documentation shed seen showed that Mr and Mrs O had 
been kept informed about what was happening with their funds and were 
invited to get in touch if any of their investments were no longer suitable.
oShe thought that Mr and Mrs Os investments hadnt materially changed since 
they moved to the PCS. She also thought the investments were well 
diversified and in line with Mr and Mrs Os attitude to risk and investment 
objectives. 
oShe hadnt seen anything which demonstrated that the fund wasnt managed 
or structured in line with the discretionary arrangement. She couldnt agree 
that Barclays hadnt provided Mr and Mrs O with the discretionary managed 
service or that their actions fell short of what we would expect of them in the 
circumstances.
oShe pointed out that Barclays were unable to make recommendations or 
change the investment approach without completing a new suitability 
assessment. And where Mr and Mrs O didnt complete one, then it wasnt 
unreasonable for Barclays to have continued to manage the portfolio under 
the existing mandate.
Management Fees
oShe appreciated what Mr and Mrs O had said regarding charges being 
waived if they werent happy with the service they were receiving and if 
performance wasnt being delivered. However, she hadnt seen any evidence 
or guarantees that management fees wouldnt be payable because of 
underperformance. 
oShe thought that as the management fee covered a wide range of services 
such as administration, research, reporting, monitoring etc. it was unlikely 
that fees would be waived due to underperformance as performance couldnt 
be guaranteed. 
oHer opinion was that any waived fees which may have been discussed were 
set out in the letters notifying Mr and Mrs O of the change of terms i.e. if the 
new terms were unacceptable then the agreement could be ended without 
charge. While she appreciated Mr and Mrs Os strength of feeling, she wasnt 
persuaded that any promises were made regarding fees being waived. Invoices
oThe investigator noted that Mr and Mrs O had queried an invoice theyd 
received in 2015  theyd said that the invoice wasnt in line with the charging 
structure and that they werent prepared to pay until there was an agreement 
about the performance/service issues.
oThe documentation shed seen explained that Barclays had tried to debit the 
fees from Mr and Mrs Os taxable account, but there was no money there. 
She noted that Mr and Mrs O had been provided with options to pay the 
outstanding fees but as they hadnt been paid, the funds were eventually 
taken from their ISAs. 
oShe appreciated that one of the invoices had been incorrect  it had quoted 
an amount for six months of fees when in fact it related to fees for one year.
oShe thought despite the ongoing dispute about fees, Barclays had continued 
to manage Mr and Mrs Os investments. And while she appreciated that they 
had said theyd been told that fees would be waived, she hadnt seen any 
evidence to support this. 
oTherefore, she couldnt say that Barclays had acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in charging the fees due on the portfolio, and she hadnt seen any evidence 
that the fees had been charged incorrectly.
Application of fees
oThe investigator thought that the terms of Mr and Mrs Os accounts set out 
that commission, fees or charges could be settled by funds held within other 
accounts. So, she didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong when they 
took funds from Mr and Mrs Os other accounts as they were within their 
rights to do so. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with the investigators findings. They said, in summary:
Barclays should have contacted them as per the terms of their accounts before 
taking any money from their ISAs to cover the outstanding fees
They had evidence that theyd been advised that the fees had been waived and the 
complaint resolved in their favour
Theyd never received the original terms and conditions when the account was set up 
in 2006
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr and Mrs O. Theyve 
raised several detailed arguments but Im not going to respond to every single point that 
theyve made. I intend no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure them that Ive read and considered all their submissions. 
Ive focused my decision on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do 
this and it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every single point to arrive at what I consider to be a fair and reasonable 
outcome. Mr and Mrs O have raised several complaints with this service about Barclays and 
Id like to clarify that this decision focuses solely on the issues with fees and the performance 
of their investments.
GIM were managing Mr and Mrs Os holdings on a discretionary basis. Their portfolios were 
set up as medium risk in 2006 and then moved to medium-high risk in 2008. They continued 
to be managed on this basis after the move to the PCS. It was noted that unless and until 
we hear from you to the contrary, we will assume that the above information is correct, and 
you are comfortable with the current basis on which we are looking after your account(s). 
Ive reviewed the makeup of their portfolios and like the investigator, Im satisfied that the 
asset mix, risk level and diversification were broadly in line with what I expect in a medium-
high risk portfolio. 
I think one of the key issues at the heart of this complaint is around the fees that Mr and Mrs 
O were charged. Its clear that they were unhappy with the performance of their holdings and 
the service they were receiving. And I dont think its unreasonable for them to expect to 
receive the services they were paying for. 
From what Ive seen, when Mr and Mrs O moved to the PCS they were no longer entitled to 
any face to face meetings. Instead, there was to be contact twice per year over the 
telephone. Between January 2014 (when Mr and Mrs O moved to the PCS) and 2016 when 
the complaint was raised, there were 14 calls made to them for a variety of reasons. I think 
this evidences that Barclays were trying to provide Mr and Mrs O with the level of contact 
they were entitled to. I appreciate Mr and Mrs O wanted a face to face meeting, but this 
wasnt part of the PCS. 
I fully accept that the performance of their investments wasnt in line with Mr and Mrs Os 
expectations, but I havent seen that any guarantees were given. I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest that as the portfolios were set up on a medium-high risk basis, 
there was a likelihood of fluctuations in value. I note that Mr and Mrs O have said they were 
told that if they werent happy with the service then they wouldnt have to pay any fees. 
However, I must give also regard to the fact that memories fade over time so 
contemporaneous evidence that is available is more persuasive. The written evidence Ive 
seen suggests that fees will be due regardless of performance as they covered a wide range 
of functions that Barclays performed in administering the investments.
I think it is normal business practice for a firm to be paid for providing a service. While I 
completely appreciate what Mr and Mrs O have said, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
say that Barclays werent due compensation for managing Mr and Mrs Os investments.
Ive then considered if Mr and Mrs O were told that fees would be waived. Ive listened to the 
call recording theyve provided from 3 July 2017. They were told that the fees between 
December 2014 and June 2016  six fees in total - had been rebated and hadnt been 
reclaimed. Mr and Mrs O were told on the call that they would receive formal confirmation in 
writing of the position with the fees. However, the follow-up letter on 27 July 2017 confirmed 
that fees hadnt been waived and were still outstanding. 
I think that the incorrect information was given on the call because of how some of the fees 
had been charged to the taxable accounts but were then cancelled and recharged to the 
ISAs. I think this would have caused Mr and Mrs O confusion and I would expect Barclays to offer compensation for this error. I also note that there was an error with an invoice Mr and 
Mrs O received in June 2015. The invoice quoted fees of £2277.87 for the previous six 
months when the amount was actually for the last twelve months. I also think that this would 
have caused confusion. 
I can see that Barclays have offered £250 in compensation for their errors and delays in 
responding to Mr and Mrs Os complaints. I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and I wont be asking them to do any more regarding these points.
Ive also considered if Barclays acted fairly when they debited the outstanding fees from the 
cash held in Mr and Mrs Os ISAs. I dont think its in dispute that the terms of the account 
allowed Barclays to debit the ISAs but there is a question around whether or not they 
needed to notify Mr and Mrs O before doing so. 
The original terms of their accounts say Any charges due to the ISA Manager, together with 
VAT or other governmental duties, may be deducted unconditionally from cash funds held by 
Gerrard on behalf of the Client. Where necessary, investments held in the Client's ISA may 
be realised to meet such management charges.
The terms were updated in 2015 to say As before, if you do not pay us amounts when due, 
we can charge you default interest and under the new Terms, we will also be able to use the 
cash or sell Assets within your Account to meet the unpaid charges, or take other steps as 
set out in the terms of your Account. We will tell you before doing this
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs O were notified before outstanding fees 
were taken from the cash in their ISAs. But I think its more likely than not that even if they 
had been notified that the fees were going to be taken, they wouldnt have agreed to this 
course of action. I say this because of the ongoing dispute between both parties regarding 
whether fees were due because of poor performance and lack of service. Mr and Mrs O 
were sent letters in 2014 and 2015 advising of the outstanding fees and the options they had 
to make the payment - including having the funds taken from their ISAs - but they didnt take 
any action.  
I think that Barclays would have taken the outstanding fees from the available cash in the 
ISAs, even if Mr and Mrs O didnt agree to them doing so. So, on balance, I dont think that 
the lack of notification has impacted what would have happened. Barclays were within their 
rights to use the available funds to cover the outstanding fees and as Ive previously said, its 
likely that they would have done so regardless of whether or not theyd notified Mr and Mrs 
O. I appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs O, but Im satisfied that they were given 
the opportunity to pay the outstanding fees before they were taken from the ISAs.
I note the points Mr and Mrs O have made regarding not receiving the 2006 terms and 
conditions from GIM, but the documentation from 2006 shows that they signed to say We 
confirm having read, understood and agreed to the Managed Portfolio Service Terms and 
Conditions, Schedule of Charges and New Client Form, which together 1) constitute a 
binding agreement between me/us and Gerrard Investment Management Limited, 2) if 
applicable, and unless otherwise stated in writing, they replace any agreement previously in 
place between me/us and Gerrard Investment Management Limited in respect of my/our 
account, and 3) I/we have had proper opportunity 'to consider this agreement. So, taking 
into account that these events took place over 15 years ago, and having reviewed the 
contemporaneous documents, I dont think I can fairly say they werent provided with the 
terms and conditions.
So, in summary, I think that errors have been made by Barclays. But having considered 
everything, I think the compensation theyve offered Mr and Mrs O is fair and reasonable. I dont think that there was any agreement that fees wouldnt be due if performance was poor. 
And while I accept that Barclays should have made contact before taking funds from Mr and 
Mrs Os ISAs, I dont think that not making contact would have changed the eventual 
outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont think Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint. They should pay Mr and Mrs O £250 in compensation if they 
havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman