DRN-4407713
The complaint
Mr W complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV)s handling of a 
claim on his home insurance.
What happened
Mr W had an LV home insurance policy. In May 2022, thieves broke into his garage and 
stole several replacement parts for old motor vehicles. He made a claim to LV under his 
insurance.
LV declined the claim. It said motor vehicles and all their accessories were explicitly 
excluded from the policy definition of contents, so the stolen parts werent covered.
Mr W believes this is unfair and brought his complaint to this service. He says, in summary:
A collection of unassembled vehicle parts are neither motor vehicles nor 
accessories.
They should instead fall under the definition of household goods.
A similar case on our website was upheld in the policyholders favour.
He wants LV to settle his claim and improve their policy wording.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that vehicle parts fell under the policy definition of motor vehicles and accessories 
and were excluded from Mr Ws cover. She thought LVs decision to decline the claim was 
fair.
Mr W disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Contents are defined in Mr Ws policy booklet as: household goods, valuables, home 
entertainment equipment, money and credit cards, bicycles, television or radio aerials, 
satellite dishes and their fittings, and tenants fixtures and improvements. The same section 
goes on to say: Contents are not motor vehicles and all their accessories. LV said the 
vehicle parts stolen from Mr W were vehicle accessories so excluded from cover.
LVs internal notes show that, during a phone call with Mr W on 5 June 2023, it explained 
what it considered to be vehicle accessories: Items are generally considered to be an 
accessory to a vehicle, watercraft or aircraft if they were made specifically for the purpose of 
being used in or on one of these items.
Mr W doesnt think this is fair. He notes the dictionary definition of accessories is: 
Something added to a machine or to clothing that has a useful or decorative purpose. He 
believes this might include items such as radios or seat covers but not essential vehicle 
parts, like those that were stolen. He believes vehicle parts should be considered household 
goods.
Im afraid I dont agree with him. Im satisfied that the policy is clear as to what LV intended 
to cover. This doesnt include motor vehicles. Im satisfied that vehicle parts can be 
considered accessories given their purpose is to be added to a motor vehicle. The fact they 
werent attached to a vehicle when they were stolen doesnt take them outside the policy 
definition. Finally, given the explicit reference to motor vehicles in the policy definitions, I 
dont think its reasonable to consider parts of these vehicles to be household goods. 
Mr W highlighted a case study on our website as another reason his claim should have been 
settled. However, that case was different as it determined whether an item should be 
considered buildings or contents for insurance purposes. Also, as our investigator 
explained, we assess every case individually and on its own merits. In Mr Ws case, Im 
satisfied that his policy doesnt cover him for the stolen items for the reasons Ive set out 
above. It follows that I think LVs decision to decline the claim was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman