DRN-3263121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined their travel 
insurance claim.
Any reference to IPA includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which started on 21 July 2019 
and expired on 20 July 2020. IPA is the underwriter of the policy. 
They booked a trip within Europe and their intended travel dates were from 23 April 2020 to 
28 April 2020.  
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)  formerly 
known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)  advised against all but essential 
international travel.
Due to the travel restrictions that remained in place for Mr and Mrs Hs intended travel dates, 
they cancelled their trip. They managed to receive a refund from their travel provider, but 
their accommodation provider offered a credit voucher for a future booking as the booking 
was made on a non-refundable basis. Initially, the hotel provided a credit voucher which had 
an expiry date until 31 March 2021. As this had expired, a further voucher was provided with 
an expiry date of 31 March 2022 and allowed Mr and Mrs H to make a booking any time 
during 2022. 
Mr and Mrs H submitted a claim to IPA. It assessed their claim and declined it as the cost of 
the hotel booking had been shown to be recoverable. 
Unhappy with IPAs response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. She didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr and Mrs H have 
been offered a credit voucher and as the cost is recoverable, there is no cover for the cost of 
the hotel booking to be refunded by IPA.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to me.
In summary they say:
The cost is irrecoverable because the terms of the credit voucher are unreasonably 
restrictive, and they have exceptional circumstances which have prevented them 
from using it.
The destination they had intended to travel to is in lockdown due to the Covid-19 
pandemic and its not safe to travel to that country.
Its because of the pandemic that theyre unable to use the credit note.
The credit voucher is a red herring and should be discounted and gives IPA a reason 
to decline their claim. IPA committed to refunding costs arising from the Covid-19 
pandemic.
They dont accept the offer of a worthless credit voucher in lieu of a full refund for the 
cost of the accommodation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of Mr and 
Mrs Hs travel insurance contract with IPA. 
On page 20 of the policy document, Section A  Cancellation or curtailment charges, it 
says:
What is covered
Cancellation
We will pay you up to £3,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused 
travel and accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid 
charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay, together with your proportion 
only of any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if cancellation of the trip 
or one-way trip is necessary and unavoidable.
Ive also considered the email Mr and Mrs H received from the broker on behalf of the 
insurer on 17 March 2020 which said:
Following extensive consultation with our insurer, we are pleased to inform
you that all trips you currently have booked are covered for cancellation that is both
necessary and reasonable due to coronavirus (COVID-19). As examples, if there is a
new Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advisory against all or all but essential
travel to your destination, or it has become impossible to reach your destination due 
to border or flight restrictions, cover will be in place. Full information is available on
our coronavirus webpage.
Further down the email, it also said:
If you need to claim for a trip that's already booked, tour operators and most flight
and accommodation providers, including XX, are currently offering full refunds.
Please note that you'll need to contact your tour operator, accommodation and
transport providers (or your card provider if applicable) to see if you can obtain a 
refund before contacting (the insurer) to make a claim.Based on the above, it seems Mr and Mrs H have cover under their policy. But in terms of a 
claim, they would have needed to contact the relevant providers in regard to their trip. I can 
see they did that. 
And, having done that, they received a refund for their travel booking. They also received a 
credit voucher for their accommodation booking. In order for IPA to accept a cancellation 
claim, Mr and Mrs H would need to show that the cost for which they are claiming is not 
recoverable. 
In the next section, Ill consider whether, based on the above terms and conditions, IPA 
declined Mr and Mrs Hs claim unfairly. 
Has the claim been declined unfairly?
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs comments theyve put to us carefully. 
They have been offered a credit voucher by the hotel provider to make a future booking. The 
voucher expires on 31 March 2022 and they are able to make a booking for anytime in 2022. 
Theyve also said their circumstances are exceptional  mainly due to Mrs H being aged 65 
and that puts her into the vulnerable category. 
However, based on the information available, I cant see that the terms of the voucher are 
restrictive, and the hotel has extended the voucher from the original date. I appreciate that 
there has been a lot of uncertainty surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic and I understand Mr 
and Mrs Hs reasons for not wanting to make a booking because of the potential risks 
involved in travelling. But I dont think these are exceptional. 
The terms and conditions are clear enough in that the cost claimed for has to be shown as 
irrecoverable. Mr and Mrs H have shown the cost is recoverable. I appreciate this isnt what 
they consider to be fair or reasonable because the only way this can be resolved is by them 
receiving a full refund from IPA. I can see the booking they made with the hotel was non-
refundable. But I think the fact that it has offered a credit voucher which isnt so restrictive, is 
fair and reasonable. They are still able to make a future booking and the timescale provided 
to them isnt unreasonable. 
I note also that the destination Mr and Mrs H were intending to travel to, may still have travel 
restrictions in place. But from what I can see, the hotel has had a reasonable approach to 
offering a credit voucher and has already renewed it once. If Mr and Mrs H do have a 
problem with their booking, they should contact their hotel provider and make any further 
requests directly with them. In any case though, as it stands, Mr and Mrs H are able to make 
a future booking for any time during 2022, providing they make their booking before 31 
March 2022. 
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded the claim is covered under the terms and conditions of 
their policy. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
IPA to accept Mr and Mrs Hs claim. It follows that I dont require IPA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman