DRN-3504502
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) delayed in 
dealing with her claim. 
What happened
Mrs K had an income protection insurance policy with L&G. She submitted a claim in 
October 2019 but no action was taken by L&G until June 2020, due to an administrative 
error. L&G then asked for medical evidence from Mrs Ks GP. 
Mrs K complained about delays and L&G paid £200 compensation for the impact of these. 
Mrs K made a further complaint and L&G offered a further £400 compensation for failing to 
keep her updated but explained it was still waiting for medical information from the GP.
Unhappy, Mrs K referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that although L&G did delay, it had 
offered £600 compensation which was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs K asked for an Ombudsmans decision. And so the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer made by L&G is fair. And largely for the same reasons as 
already explained by our investigator. 
I should also confirm that my decision is limited to the complaint about delays. My decision 
doesnt deal with Mrs Ks complaint about her claim being declined which is being dealt with 
separately.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. 
L&G accepts that it delayed in assessing Mrs Ks claim for which it has offered £600 
compensation. Mrs K is unhappy with the amount and so its for me to decide whether £600 
is reasonable. 
L&G didnt do anything with Mrs Ks claim for eight months after which it contacted her GP 
for medical evidence. It asked for medical evidence in early June 2020 and chased this until 
it received a medical report at the end of August 2020. Following this, L&G requested further 
information from Mrs Ks GP on 20 October 2020. 
Mrs K complained about delays in early December 2020 and L&G offered to pay her £200, 
which she accepted. But she raised a further complaint about ongoing delays in early 
January 2021. L&G responded in February 2021 to apologise for its delays and its failure to 
keep Mrs K updated. It offered Mrs K a further £400, which she rejected. It said it was still 
waiting for further information from her GP and couldnt complete its claim assessment until 
it had received the further information. 
Having considered everything as a whole, I think the £600 compensation offered by L&G is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Its clear that Mrs K had to chase L&G and she 
made two complaints within a short period of time. This would have caused her stress and 
inconvenience. But I think L&Gs apology and explanation that it was waiting for further 
medical evidence was reasonable. The initial eight-month delay and the failure to keep Mrs 
K updated was time-limited and didnt have any ongoing or long-term consequences. For 
that reason, I think £600 compensation in total is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think L&Gs offer of a total of £600 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. It has already paid £200. 
I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to pay a further £400 compensation to 
Mrs K, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman