DRN-4513670
The complaint
Mr A complains that the offer UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line (Direct Line), 
made to settle his motor insurance claim is too low.
What happened
In March 2023, Mr As car was damaged in an accident. He held a fully comprehensive 
motor insurance policy with Direct Line and so he made a claim.
Direct Line decided it wasnt economical to repair Mr As car. It offered to settle the claim on 
the basis that the vehicle was worth £11,812 on the day it was damaged. Mr A did not 
accept that valuation. He said hed looked at similar cars to his that were advertised for sale 
and that Direct Lines offer was approximately £2,000 less than the lowest value he could 
find.
Mr A then complained to this service. Our investigator considered three trade valuation 
guides and said he thought Direct Lines offer to settle the claim was fair. Mr A didnt agree 
with our investigators view and the matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
I asked our investigator to consult another trade guide. I also asked him to find out from Mr A 
whether he was able to provide copies of the adverts hed seen for sale shortly after the 
accident. Mr A said he didnt have the adverts but pointed out he had provided the 
registration numbers and advertised prices of the cars in question.
I issued a provisional decision because I thought Direct Lines valuation was too low. I said: 
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr As policy say that where it is not 
economical to repair his vehicle, Direct Line can settle the claim by paying the market 
value of the car on the day it was damaged. Market value is defined in the policy as 
the cost of replacing Mr As car with another of the same make and model, and of a 
similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service 
often finds motor trade guides persuasive. Thats because their valuations are based 
on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss.
Mr A told us about a number of adverts hed seen at around the time his car was 
damaged. I appreciate he has provided the registration numbers of those vehicles 
and the prices for which they were advertised. However, without copies of the 
adverts themselves, I cannot say whether the vehicles Mr A referred to were 
comparable to his own vehicle. So, Im afraid I havent given considerable weight to 
the information Mr A provided in that regard.
That said, I can see that Direct Line consulted three valuation guides and obtained 
the following valuations: Guide 1 - £11,070; Guide 2 - £12,195; Guide 3 - £12,172. I 
can see that Direct Line entered the correct date of loss, make, model and mileage of 
Mr As car when it obtained the valuations. I asked our investigator to consult a fourth 
guide, which produced a valuation of £12,649 (Guide 4) on the date of loss. I am 
satisfied that our investigator also entered the correct information when obtaining this 
valuation.
In considering all four valuations, it seems to me that the valuation produced by 
Guide 1 is over £1,000 less than the valuations shown in Guides 2, 3 and 4. Guides 
2, 3 and 4 all show similar valuations of more than £12,000. With that in mind, I think 
Guide 1 is an outlier and it should be disregarded when considering a fair valuation of 
Mr As car.
Direct Line offered to settle Mr As claim on the basis that his car was worth £11,812. 
But this amount is not within the range of Guides 2, 3 and 4, so I dont think it 
represents a fair value of Mr As car on the day it was damaged.
I think a fairer way to settle Mr As complaint would be to assess the value of his car 
by taking an average of Guides 2, 3 and 4. By my calculations, that would mean 
Direct Line would need to settle Mr As claim on the basis that his car was worth 
£12,338 on the day it was damaged.
I asked the parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider by 13 December 2023. Direct Line requested copies of the valuations obtained by 
our investigator. Our investigator emailed both parties on 13 December 2023 to remind them 
of the deadline. However, no substantive response was received from either Direct Line or 
Mr A. Neither party requested extra time to respond.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided me with any further information or evidence, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out above, I uphold this 
complaint and require Direct Line to put things right. 
Putting things right
I require Direct Line to:
Settle Mr As claim based on a valuation of £12,338 for his car on the day it was 
damaged; and
Pay simple interest on the difference between any initial settlement and the final 
settlement. The rate of interest will be 8% a year and will need to be paid up to the 
date the final settlement is paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line, to put 
things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Nicola BowesOmbudsman