DRN-3457227
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about how Barclays Bank UK Plc has administered their mortgage 
during the covid-19 pandemic. Mr E has managed the complaint throughout.
Mr E complains that Barclays:
- made mistakes when setting up two consecutive covid-19 payment deferrals in 
March and June 2020. 
- then agreed to a further two months payment deferral over the phone in September 
2020. But later went back on this agreement and started treating his mortgage as 
being in arrears and reporting it as such on his credit file. 
Mr E says hes worried about the impact Barclays error has made on their credit file and 
their ability to get access to competitive mortgage interest rates. He also says the stress of 
this complaint has made his health suffer.
Mr E would like Barclays to admit that it agreed a further two-month payment deferral in late 
September 2020 and to update their credit file to reflect that the mortgage wasnt in arrears. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E have a capital repayment mortgage with Barclays. Early on during the covid-
19 pandemic, Mr E contacted Barclays to request a three-month payment deferral. This was 
intended to cover the period from April to June 2020. In June 2020, Mr E asked that this was 
extended to July to September 2020.
There were issues with the way Barclays set up these initial payment deferrals. They werent 
set up to cover the months that had been agreed and for a time it had appeared that the 
mortgage had been in arrears when it shouldnt have been. Mr E identified this and 
escalated this to Barclays. Barclays took steps to correct this mistake. 
Once the second payment deferral came to an end, Mr E asked for the arrangement to 
continue for a further two months covering his October and November mortgage 
repayments. Mr E says Barclays agreed to extend his payment deferral for two more months 
and told him this wouldnt be recorded as mortgage arrears or be reflected on their credit file. 
Mr E was later upset to receive letters from Barclays saying that his mortgage was in arrears 
and to find this had recorded on his and Mrs Es credit file.
Mr E complained to Barclays, which upheld the complaint and offered Mr and Mrs E £100 for 
issues with setting up the payment deferrals correctly, and a further £50 for subsequent 
problems. It seems the second payment of £50 that was offered was never paid to Mr and 
Mrs E. 
Mr E was dissatisfied with Barclays response and brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened. She thought that Barclays had made some 
administrative mistakes when setting up the two special covid payment deferrals. And she 
thought it was reasonable that Barclays pay Mr and Mrs E a further £200, in addition to the 
£100 it had already paid to Mrs E, for upset and inconvenience caused by its handling of the 
mortgage and poor communication. 
Our investigator said that Barclays had retrospectively sorted out the months that the initial 
payment deferrals were intended to cover (from April to September 2020). But she thought 
Barclays had acted fairly by recording the last two-month zero payment arrangement (for 
October and November) on Mr and Mrs Es credit file. She said that its usual for financial 
businesses to record such arrangements on credit files. While this wasnt a requirement 
during the exceptional arrangements made for covid-19, any subsequent support should be 
recorded in the normal way. And that it was reasonable that Barclays had done this for Mr 
and Mrs Es mortgage in all the circumstances.
Mr E disagreed. He responded to the investigators view to say, in summary:
- its unfair that we could allow a bank to leave a credit rating downgrade on Mr and 
Mrs Es credit file and think £300 was adequate compensation when the bank will 
make this back in higher interest for having a bad credit rating;
- how could we agree that Barclays had made the mistakes on the mortgage and yet it 
was acceptable behaviour for them to record information on his credit file;
- Barclays should remove the black mark from Mr and Mrs Es credit file in recognition 
of its mistake.
Mr E asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint again and reach a final decision on the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to reassure both parties that I have considered all the evidence that has been 
submitted before reaching my decision. Im also grateful to Mr E who has given us a detailed 
timeline of events and explained how this situation came about. 
As part of my wider consideration of this complaint, Ive thought about the series of issues 
that Mr and Mrs E experienced trying to get access to the special payment deferral scheme. 
Im mindful that this scheme was set up to help mortgage account holders to get through a 
really difficult time. Ive also considered that this was a difficult time for many financial 
businesses too. Im conscious that Barclays would have had its fair share of operational 
issues to overcome. 
Notwithstanding, its very disappointing that Mr and Mrs E experienced the number of 
problems that they did getting access to the covid payment deferral scheme. Barclays made 
a series of administrative mistakes setting up payment deferrals for Mr and Mrs E. I can see 
why Mr E became increasingly frustrated and disillusioned with his mortgage lender.  
Its also clear from the contact history which records the series of calls Mr E has made with 
Barclays during this period, that he spent a lot of time trying to sort out what was happening 
with his mortgage repayments. There were times when Mr E became so upset that he would 
end calls. Mr E also says there were times when he would get cut off from a call by Barclays. 
In either scenario, this would lead to Mr E later calling back and speaking to a different 
person. I think that did exacerbate the problem of inconsistent messaging by Barclays - as a 
separate person would then pick up the issues and potentially give conflicting messages to Mr E. This then led to Mr Es frustration growing. He then had to explain the issues he was 
having to another person, who would then struggle to pick up where their colleague had got 
to.
Barclays has already accepted that it made mistakes setting up Mr and Mrs Es first and 
second three-month payment deferrals. This led to arrears being recorded on Mr and Mrs 
Es credit file. Barclays has already corrected its mistakes in this regard and that issue no 
longer seems central to what I need to determine now. Mr E is more concerned about what 
happened in September 2020 when he tried to sort out a further payment arrangement to 
cover his mortgage payments in October and November. 
It seems clear from the records and calls made at the time, that Mr E felt that he needed 
further support beyond the six months covered by the special covid scheme. He asked for a 
further two months of payment deferral without his mortgage being recorded as being in 
arrears, or without any impact on his credit file.
As our investigator has explained, financial businesses have a responsibility to accurately 
record account conduct to the credit reference agencies. The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) introduced a special scheme to help mortgage borrowers in response to the covid-19 
pandemic. This meant residential mortgage account holders could request up to six months 
of payment deferrals without this being reported on the account holders credit file. These 
were exceptional rules introduced by the regulator, in response to an exceptional event. 
Mr and Mrs E took out a covid payment deferral from April to September 2020. There were 
some issues with Barclays setting up this payment deferral. Barclays has taken steps to 
correct this already. It updated Mr and Mrs Es credit file to make sure there was no 
information about missed mortgage payments or arrears from April to October 2020. 
Barclays has made a payment of £100 for the issues Mr and Mrs E experienced with this. I 
think that award, along with the steps already taken to sort out the credit file for this period, is 
fair and reasonable to resolve this part of the complaint.
The remaining part of this complaint concerns how Barclays handled Mr Es request for 
further support following the end of the six-month special covid scheme. Mr E wanted the 
payment deferral to be extended and for it to continue to not be treated as arrears or 
recorded on his credit file. 
Mr E is adamant that Barclays agreed to a further two-month payment deferral in a call at 
around 4pm on 22 September 2020. I have listened to this call, and I have looked at the 
notes that record what was discussed in all the other calls around this time. I have also 
looked at the call summaries prepared by our investigator who has explored this particular 
issue in depth when sharing her findings about this complaint with Mr E.
I have thought carefully about whether Barclays did agree to a further two-month payment 
deferral and whether it told Mr E that this wouldnt be recorded on his credit file. I dont think 
that it did. I dont dispute what Mr E thought had been agreed in a call with Barclays at 
around 4pm on 22 September. But, I genuinely think there was a misunderstanding about 
what had been agreed and that the Barclays staff member and Mr E came away from that 
call with a different view of what had been set up. 
The same staff member spoke to Mr E twice on 22 September. Barclays notes from that 
morning say that the call handler had asked another department to approve an arrangement 
where Mr and Mrs E could pay less than interest only for two months on their mortgage. 
The notes record this had been agreed. She then tried to communicate what had been 
agreed to Mr E in a call shortly before midday. The notes record that when the staff member 
started to read the script and advised Mr E that the missing payments will accrue as arrears, he said he did not want this and demanded 2 months further ph [payment holiday]. I 
have advised this is not something we offer and when he asked what other options we have 
available I recommended he speak with an IFA at which stage he disconnected the call. 
The same call handler makes notes that afternoon after her second call with Mr E. The notes 
say that Mr E had taken time to reflect on his earlier decision and he now decided he would 
like to accept the two month plan.
I dont think the call recordings or call notes support Mr Es recollection that Barclays had 
agreed to give Mr and Mrs E a further two month payment arrangement which would operate 
in the same way as the special covid deferral arrangement, or that would have no impact on 
his credit file. 
Barclays has also said that it was made clear to Mr E that the additional two months couldnt 
be capitalised and would remain as arrears. And that after two months Mr E would need to 
call to discuss a repayment plan. 
I dont agree with Barclays about that. I dont think that the second call with the staff member 
at 4pm made it clear what would happen from December 2020 when this two-month zero 
payment arrangement ended. I can see why Mr E thought that the extra couple of months of 
repayments could be repaid through a higher monthly repayment over the remainder of the 
mortgage. I say this because, on the call, the staff member gives Mr E a revised calculation 
of what Mr and Mrs Es mortgage payments will be going forward from December. 
Ive thought about whether this unclear information has caused Mr and Mrs Es any financial 
loss. It seems that Mr and Mrs E were able to make up the payments they had missed from 
October and November 2020 early the next year. By May 2021 the mortgage arrears had 
been cleared. Im pleased to hear that Mr and Mrs E have managed to recover from the 
financial difficulties they experienced during the pandemic. It appears they have been able to 
remedy their position without the need for further intervention from our service with respect 
to the two-month zero payment arrangement that Barclays agreed in September 2020. I 
consider that this resolves this part of the complaint, except for recognising the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs E by the events of this complaint.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about the specific events of this complaint and the mistakes made by 
Barclays. First, its appropriate that I consider what financial loss has come about as a result 
of wrongdoing by Barclays and whether any further corrective steps now need to be taken to 
put Mr and Mrs E back in the position they would have been in but for Barclays mistakes.
Barclays did make administrative mistakes setting up Mr and Mrs Es special covid payment 
deferrals. This led to arrears being recorded on their credit file when they were in a special 
covid payment deferral. Barclays has said it has now corrected this and cleansed Mr and 
Mrs Es credit history of mortgage arrears from April to September 2020. Im satisfied that 
this action has corrected the errors made by Barclays when it set up the original two 
payment deferrals.
I consider no further action needs to be taken to remedy the setting up of the two-month zero 
payment arrangement that followed (covering October and November 2020 mortgage 
payments). This has been recorded on Mr and Mrs Es credit file but I consider it reasonable 
that Barclays did so. Im satisfied that it did enough to make Mr E aware that any further 
payment arrangement would be recorded on his credit file. I think it could have been clearer 
about what would happen after the two-month zero payment arrangement but Mr and Mrs E 
have already remedied this position by clearing the payments that had been missed early the following year. 
Ive also considered the non-financial loss, such as the inconvenience and upset of this 
complaint on Mr and Mrs E. Mr E has spent a lot of time trying to sort things out and hes 
clearly been frustrated and disappointed with the service hes received from Barclays. 
Barclays has already paid £100 to Mrs E for the upset caused by this complaint. Our 
investigator thought a further payment of £200 to Mr and Mrs E was appropriate. I agree with 
our investigators view about what further compensation is fair and for broadly the same 
reasons. 
I think its reasonable that Barclays pay Mr and Mrs E a further £200 for the impact this 
matter has had. The events of this complaint caused Mr and Mrs E distress and 
inconvenience at a time when they had many other issues to contend with. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC should be upheld. 
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC pay a further £200 for the trouble and upset its mistakes 
caused to Mr and Mrs E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman