DRN-3710300
The complaint
Mr A complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined his claim against his travel 
insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr A had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy 
underwritten by IPA. The policy started on 17 September 2021. 
On 22 September 2021, Mr A contacted IPA about a claim against his policy. He said 
that hed had an accident whilst driving a quad bike. Unfortunately, he reported that hed 
suffered substantial injuries and received emergency medical treatment.  
IPA declined Mr As claim. It said that the policy didnt cover claims arising from 
accidents on quad bikes. On 7 October 2021, Mr A contacted IPA again and said that 
hed had a motorcycle accident. IPA established that the vehicle had four wheels and it 
said that it was therefore a quad bike. IPA maintained its position in relation to Mr As 
claim. 
Mr A says that the vehicle he was driving at the time of the accident was a motorcycle, 
hired solely as a method of transport and not for a sports activity. He says that the rental 
agreement for the vehicle says that its a motorcycle. Mr A says that he didnt ride the 
vehicle off-road and the accident took place on a major tarmac road opposite his 
accommodation. He refers to the UK governments driving licence categories. Mr A says 
that his policy doesnt expressly exclude cover for quad bikes. Mr A wants IPA to pay his 
medical and emergency air transfer costs.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that IPA had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that it was clear that the policy 
only covered the listed activities. He said that a quad bike isnt the same as a 
motorcycle. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very worrying time into a short 
narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that Mr A will not take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central issue, that is whether IPA 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim. 
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
What is not covered  applicable to all sections of the policy
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from:
[]
6. Other sports or activities 
Your participation in or practice of any other sport or activity, manual work, or racing unless:
a. Specified in the list on page 21/ 22.
b. Shown as covered in your schedule.
Sports and activities covered
The following lists detail the sports and activities that this policy will cover without charge 
when you are participating on a recreational and non-professional basis. Any involvement in 
these sports and/or activities is subject to your compliance with local laws and regulations 
as well as the use of recommended safety equipment (such as helmet, harness, knee and/or 
elbow pads).
There follows a long list of sports and activities. Quad biking isnt included in the list but 
motorcycling with a UK licence is included. 
Theres a second list of sports and activities covered on payment of the appropriate winter 
sports premium. Its not relevant here but I mention it for completeness. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which provides a summary of the key 
features and exclusions of the policy includes the following:
! Are there any restrictions on cover?
[]
! You are not insured to take part in sports or hazardous activities unless the activity is listed 
on the sports and activities table and you are participating on a recreational and              
non-professional basis.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr As complaint because I dont think that IPA treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
that because:   
Based on what Ive seen, I proceed on the basis that Mr A was driving a quad bike 
at the time of the accident that led to the claim. When Mr A first contacted IPA 
about the claim he referred to having an accident whilst driving a quad bike. And 
he referred to a quad bike in his complaint form. I dont think that the information on 
the rental agreement or the UK governments driving licence categories alters the 
fact that Mr A was driving a quad bike, not a motorcycle. Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
Quad biking isnt covered under the terms of the policy. So, IPA isnt obliged to 
settle Mr As claim for his emergency medical and air transfer costs following the 
accident. 
Mr A says that he hired the quad bike solely as a method of transport, not for a 
sports activity. And he says that he didnt ride the vehicle off-road and that the 
accident happened on a road outside his accommodation. These matters dont  
alter the outcome here, as it remains the case that Mr As policy doesnt cover 
claims arising directly or indirectly from activities not on the list shown in the policy 
document. 
In the  particular circumstances of this case, I think IPA set out what was covered 
and that didnt include claims arising directly or indirectly from quad biking. And in 
the IPID it drew attention to the fact that activities not included in the sports and 
activities list in the policy arent covered. 
 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
IPA to deal with his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman