DRN-3199182
The complaint
Mr S complains through his representative, a claims management company (CMC), about 
investment advice he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mr S invested £65,000 into a Scottish Mutual With-Profit Investment Bond after 
receiving advice from Clydesdale in 1999.
It was set up to provide regular withdrawals, and up to March 2003 he took a total of 
around £11,000 from the investment.
In November 2005, Mr S surrendered the bond for around £57,000.
In April 2020, the CMC complained to Clydesdale on Mr S behalf and said the advice 
hed received was unsuitable. They said over 80% of his capital had been tied up in 
the bond, hed had a market value reduction (MVR) upon surrender and he wasnt 
able to keep the funds invested for ten years or more given he was due to retire 
before that period.
Clydesdale didnt uphold the complaint as they thought the complaint had been made 
outside of the time limits applying to this service. 
The CMC brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. The investigator thought the complaint had been made in time and an 
ombudsman eventually made the decision that the complaint had been made in time.
The investigator then considered the merits of the complaint but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
He thought that the investment advice and choice of a With-Profits Bond (WPB) was 
suitable for Mr S investment requirements and was appropriate for his chosen low to 
medium attitude to risk profile definition. 
He thought that the documentation from the time of the sale showed that Mr S didnt 
want to invest in a cash deposit and was prepared to take some risks with his capital 
to achieve better returns. And it also showed that he didnt want a pure equity 
investment with greater risks. Therefore, the recommended investment matched that 
need.
He noted that Mr S clear investment objective was to maximise his income. And 
while the investment represented 80% of his overall existing capital, he still had 
around £13,000 in savings for emergencies. The fact-find from the time also showed 
that his income was greater than his monthly expenditure. In addition, he had no 
outstanding mortgage or other debts, no liabilities and no financial dependents. 
He also thought Mr S was made aware of the costs and investment risks and signed 
to agree that he had read and understood all the advice documentation. And noted 
that Mr S held the investment for six years without the need to make any withdrawals 
other than income taken between 1999 and 2003. And he stopped taking income in 
2003 so he clearly had sufficient income to meet his needs, and no need to make 
any cash withdrawals before he decided to encash the investment in 2005. 
He said that Mr S bank statements clearly showed that he had plenty of cash in his 
current account and a large external £49,000 credit was received to his bank current 
account in 2004. So, he couldnt agree that Mr S had insufficient funds or was under 
any financial strain when he decided to encash the investment early and incur a 
Market Value Reduction (MVR) in 2005.
The CMC didnt accept his findings. They thought that whilst the investment funds 
were derived from existing products, these were a combination of lower risk savings 
accounts, an equal risk WPB which had the option of 5.5% income withdrawals, and 
a small amount in a tax-efficient PEP. The existing WPB Mr S held had early 
surrender penalties that would be incurred which was justified by the purported 
higher income that was available from this new product. However, there was no 
guarantee that the income from the new investment would be any greater than the 
existing WPB.
They also noted that income was set to be paid immediately from the recommended 
investment. And given the nature of the product, this was inappropriate and there 
was no reasonable prospect that bonuses would be declared within the first 12 
months sufficient to cover the cost of the income taken from the fund within the first 
year. So, Mr S was effectively being advised to invest and then withdraw his own 
capital (after the loss of initial charges). Whilst this was offset slightly by the 
investments Guaranteed Bonus of 2.5% in the first year, the income being taken 
was far higher than this and the heavily promoted 6.25% anticipated bonus rates that 
were promoted as the reason for the switch from the previous WPB were not 
guaranteed and would not be declared until after the first several months of income 
had already been withdrawn.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the available evidence, I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld, and for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
Ive firstly considered the suitability of the advice, and having done so, I believe Mr S was in 
the position to make the recommended investment. The fact find assessment of his attitude 
to risk was 3 on a scale of 1-10 where 10 was the riskiest. It was noted that he was 59 years 
old and was due to retire in six weeks time. His recorded aim was to maximise his income 
as a result of his circumstances changing and deciding to take early retirement. 
He owned his own house with no mortgage, had no dependents and no liabilities. He had 
around £21,000 in cash-based investments and savings and around £57,000 in other 
investments. His income was noted as being £100 per week, he had a surplus of income 
over expenditure and hed held investments for a number of years. Taking into account his 
circumstances, I dont think the assessment of his ATR was inappropriate.
Ive reviewed the recommended WPB, and having done so, Im satisfied that it met Mr S 
requirements at the time. Despite the fact hed surrendered a few other investments and 
reinvested the funds in the WPB, it offered diversification and fell within the type of 
investments that would reasonably achieve Mr S recorded aims. I appreciate the points the 
CMC has made about having to pay early surrender penalties, but I can see that this was 
only around £200. Taking everything into account, I dont think I can fairly say that combining Mr S existing 
investments  the majority of which were maturing  into a new WPB offering a higher 
income return, was unsuitable. The recommended WPB provided him with longer term 
capital growth potential with only a moderate risk to his capital.
I also havent seen any clear evidence that would lead me to think the amount invested was
inappropriate, Mr S had around £13,000 left on deposit and was due to receive the state 
pension after he turned 60 which would further increase his income. Also, the fact that he 
kept the investment for six years and stopped taking income after four years demonstrates 
that it was affordable. I also think the documentation Mr S was provided with at the time set 
out in clear terms the risks associated with the WPB and he accepted those risks.
So, having considered all the available evidence, I think Mr S had a stated desire to use his 
capital to supplement his retirement income. His circumstances at the time were such that 
he could afford to invest the amount that was recommended by the adviser. And the 
recommended WPB provided the opportunity to generate returns allowing him to achieve his 
income needs over time, while limiting the amount of risk he was exposed to. From 
everything Ive seen, I dont consider the advice Clydesdale gave him to have been 
unsuitable. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman