DRN-3800044
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain they suffered a financial loss when purchasing a new home due to 
unnecessary delays caused by their broker. The broker was an appointed representative of 
Openwork Limited (Openwork).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B wanted to sell their existing home and increase the loan on a buy-to-let 
property in order to buy a new home. They made their broker aware of this in August 2020, 
and by December 2020 they informed the broker they had accepted an offer on their 
property. 
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs B had an offer accepted on a property they wished to 
purchase, and their broker issued a recommendation letter shortly afterwards. It was agreed 
the broker would apply for a further advance on the existing buy-to-let and submit an 
application to a new lender for the remaining mortgage amount required. 
Mr and Mrs B say they found out at the end of April 2021 that the broker still hadnt 
submitted their applications, so they felt they had a responsibility to inform their estate agent 
their applications were behind schedule. Mr and Mrs B say, within three weeks, they found 
out their chain had collapsed. And, at the time, the estate agent told them the top of the 
chain was concerned they didnt have a mortgage in place. 
Around the same time, Mr and Mrs B say property prices increased in their area and as a 
result they had to offer a further £8,000 to secure the property they wished to purchase. The 
offer was accepted in June 2021, around the same time a mortgage offer was produced by 
the new lender. But, due to the increased purchase price, and the likelihood that Mr and 
Mrs B would miss the deadline to avoid stamp duty, Mrs B sought a job to increase the 
amount they could borrow. This meant a new application was required as they needed to 
declare the additional income and ask for a greater sum. 
A new application was submitted, but a new mortgage offer wasnt produced until 
October 2021. The purchase eventually went through in December 2021, which meant 
Mr and Mrs B had to pay £8,500 in stamp duty as well as the £8,000 increase in purchase 
price. Mr and Mrs B believe they shouldnt have had to pay either.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Openwork and said the broker hadnt progressed their 
applications in a timely manner and had lied to them about the status of their applications. 
They believe they could have completed the purchase of their new home prior to June 2021 
at the lower purchase price and without having to pay any stamp duty. 
Openwork reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs concerns and agreed the broker hadnt progressed their 
applications when promised. But, it said, it wasnt guaranteed they would complete before 
stamp duty became payable. Openwork decided the purchase could have been made prior 
to 30 September 2021 when the stamp duty would have cost £6,000. So, it offered to refund 
£2,500  the amount stamp duty increased by. It also offered £600 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy, so Openwork reviewed their 
complaint again on two further occasions, but its findings were broadly the same. Even so, it 
increased the offer of distress and inconvenience to £800 and added a further £250 for 
delays during the complaint process. 
The complaint was then referred to this service and our investigator looked into Mr and 
Mrs Bs concerns, but they didnt think Openwork Limited needed to do anything more. As 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld as I think the settlement thats 
already been offered is fair. Ill explain why.
Openwork has accepted that the broker caused unnecessary delays during the application 
process on both the further advance and new mortgage application. Its unclear quite how 
long the delays were as the broker says a postal application was submitted for the further 
advance in March 2021, but the lender said this wasnt received. As a result, an application 
was submitted in May 2021. The broker explained they wanted to ensure this application 
was agreed prior to submitting an application for a new mortgage. But when it came to light, 
they would need to resubmit the further advance application, they went ahead with the 
application for the new mortgage in May 2021 in hopes of securing both prior to the 
deadline. 
I can understand why the broker may have wanted to make sure the further advance was 
agreed prior to submitting the application for the new mortgage. And the broker would have 
been aware there were delays processing applications as a result of the coronavirus, Covid-
19, pandemic, as well as a surge in applications due to the deadlines associated with stamp 
duty. So, this may have been why they had less cause for concern when they didnt receive 
a response to the initial application. But, overall, I think the further advance application could 
have been submitted earlier than it was, and it should have been established much sooner if 
the application hadnt been received by the lender.
That said, in order to hold Openwork responsible for the additional costs Mr and Mrs B 
incurred in stamp duty, I would have to think the purchase of their new home would more 
likely than not have completed by 30 June 2021. And based on what Ive seen, I cant agree 
that it would have. I say this because the evidence Mr and Mrs B have submitted from their estate agent 
doesnt confirm their mortgage application status was the sole reason their chain collapsed. 
The estate agent said there were a number of issues during the course of the sale up and 
down the chain. And that while some of those issues may have been avoided if it werent for 
the delay in Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer, there were also other issues involved, so they 
couldnt conclusively say the purchase would have gone through sooner than it did. 
As a result of the additional costs, Mrs B decided to find a job in order to increase their 
borrowing potential. The new mortgage lender issued an offer around the same time, but this 
was no longer suitable, so the broker had to submit a new application to reflect the changes 
in Mrs Bs employment and request a greater amount. There were some issues with this 
application, which isnt surprising given the employment was new. But, that meant an offer 
wasnt issued until October 2021, by which point stamp duty had increased to £8,500.
Considering everything, I cant be satisfied Mr and Mrs B would have met the deadline of 
30 June 2021 and avoided paying stamp duty entirely. The next deadline would have been 
30 September 2021, when stamp duty cost £6,000. But there were some more delays after 
Mr and Mrs B required a new application for their mortgage, which given the nature of it, 
were more explainable. So, Mr and Mrs B ended up paying £8,500 in stamp duty as the 
purchase didnt complete until December 2021. 
As an impartial service, it wouldnt be right for me to ask Openwork to compensate Mr and 
Mrs B for something that may or may not have happened. But Openwork has offered to 
refund the additional £2,500 in stamp duty, as though the purchase went through before the 
second deadline, and I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B strongly feel Openwork is also responsible for the increase in purchase price 
which cost them £8,000. But, for the same reasons I cant hold Openwork responsible for 
Mr and Mrs B missing the deadline of 30 June 2021, I also cant hold Openwork responsible 
if Mr and Mrs B decided to increase their offer prior to that deadline. 
Mr and Mrs B offered to increase the purchase price because the market increased around 
the same time and they were worried about losing the property. But again, there was no 
guarantee the purchase would have gone ahead before 30 June 2021, even if the broker 
hadnt caused delays. It was Mr and Mrs Bs decision to increase their offer. Although I fully 
appreciate what theyve said about the difficulties they would have faced finding a new 
property  that was ultimately a decision for them to make at the time and not Openworks 
responsibility. 
Mr and Mrs B have also expressed how extremely concerned they are by the actions of the 
broker. And they have questioned whether their complaint has been taken seriously or not. 
Theyve indicated they think theyre entitled to substantially more compensation than theyve 
been offered  theyre expecting around £10,000. 
Ive reviewed the evidence Mr and Mrs B have provided which includes several emails and 
text messages where they tried to get answers from the broker throughout the application 
process. And in these messages its clear the broker misinformed them about the status of 
their applications. Mrs B has said she also spent a lot of time progressing the application to 
the new lender herself, directly, and was effectively doing the brokers job for them. Ive thought about all of this carefully, and I agree Mr and Mrs B received a poor level of 
service and this must have been very stressful for them. But I need to explain that as an 
informal and impartial dispute resolution service, our awards will not be as substantial as 
Mr and Mrs B may expect from an alternative, such as the courts. I also cant award 
compensation as a punishment  thats not our role.
Openwork has offered a total of £800 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and 
Mrs B, as well as £250 for delays in handling their complaint. So, the compensation for the 
impact on them, excluding financial loss, comes to £1,050. This is a significant award and is 
more than this service would usually recommend in similar circumstances. So, considering 
everything, I think the total offer Openwork has made for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Its my understanding that Mr and Mrs B didnt accept Openwork Limiteds offer at the time. 
Should Mr and Mrs B decide they now want to accept the offer, Openwork Limited should 
compensate Mr and Mrs B as follows:
£800 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
£250 for the delay in investigating their complaint. 
£2,500 towards the stamp duty they paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Openwork Limited has already 
proposed a fair offer to Mr and Mrs B and they now need to decide whether they want to 
accept it or not.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman