DRN-1577788
The complaint
Mr F has complained about POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTDs (PEX). He isnt happy about 
the way it set up a motor insurance policy. It wouldnt refund his full premium and charged 
him a cancellation fee and an administration fee when he didnt wish to proceed.
All references to PEX include its agents.
  
What happened
Mr F looked for car insurance through an aggregator website and the details on screen 
showed it had a zero voluntary and compulsory excess. He tried to contact PEX to check 
this was correct before buying the policy but was unsuccessful. When he received a 
validation call from PEX he was told that the excess was £100. As Mr F wasnt happy about 
this he asked to cancel his policy. 
But PEX said that he would be charged a £50 amendment fee (to change the number of 
years he held his driving licence for) and a £75 cancellation fee. As Mr F didnt receive any 
refund he complained to this service. He wanted a full refund due to the incorrect excess 
being applied. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He thought that there 
were a few discrepancies with the way the information had transferred over from the 
aggregator website. He looked at the website and didnt understand how Mr Fs driving 
history had transferred across incorrectly - this was because Mr F had more than the 
maximum that could be chosen (over 20 years). And he didnt think it was fair for Mr F to be 
charged a cancellation fee given the discrepancies and the fact that he looked to cancel 
within a few minutes of the validation call. So he asked PEX to refund all his premium and 
not to charge a cancellation fee and to pay interest for the time Mr F has been without the 
money owed.
As PEX didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to go over all the details about this complaint as they are well known to both 
sides. Instead Ill focus on the key issue which is whether it is fair and reasonable for PEX to 
charge Mr F a cancellation fee and administration fee when he wanted to cancel his policy a 
very short time after hed attempted to take it out online. 
Mr F was provided with different details about the policy when he looked to take it out online 
through an aggregator website. Indeed, he tried to contact PEX direct before proceeding 
with the policy and when he wasnt successful he went ahead with payment online. 
PEX, for its part, say that it cant be held responsible for any aggregator error and say that 
Mr F had chance to check everything before proceeding on its website. PEX hasnt provided 
sufficient evidence to show this but Mr F was very clear both to this service and PEX during 
the validation calls about how the excess was presented. And our investigator has followed 
the online journey which showed that Mr F input his details about how long he had held a 
licence for correctly. He simply entered that hed held a licence for more than 20 years as 
that was all that was allowed.
Furthermore, when PEX called Mr F it was clear that it hadnt placed him on cover with an 
insurer at that point in time and that Mr F wasnt happy about the excess. And yet it 
proceeded to charge Mr F an admin fee for increasing the time he had held a licence for 
which I find surprising. I say this as it was likely that he wasnt going to proceed in any event 
because he felt misled about the excess.
It was clear that there was a discrepancy in the online journey immediately and before the 
policy was taken out and Mr F tried to contact PEX before making payment online. Indeed, 
PEX hadnt placed Mr F with an insurer at that point in time and looked for an increase in 
premium as well as the admin fee. I know it feels that it cant be held responsible for errors 
with the aggregator website but as the detail it requires is significantly different to the 
questions asked by the aggregator I dont think it would be fair to hold this against Mr F in 
these circumstances.
Given all of this I think the fair and reasonable thing to do in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for PEX to provide Mr F with a full refund of his policy. In addition PEX should 
add interest in line with our usual approach for the time he has been without the refund. 
    
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require POLICY 
EXCESS INSURE LTDs (PEX) to pay Mr F a full refund of his premium. And to pay 8% 
simple interest on all monies outstanding from the date of trying to take out the policy to the 
date of refund.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman