DRN-3998828
The complaint
Mr P complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) dealt 
with a claim on his After the Event Insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr P was involved in an accident in his car. The next morning, he called his insurance broker 
to claim on his motor insurance policy for the damage to his car. 
Instead of claiming on his car insurance policy Mr P was referred to a non-fault accident 
management company (AMC). At the same time he was provided with an After the Event 
(ATE) insurance policy with AAUICL. The ATE policy covers Mr P for the recovery of his car, 
repairs to his car, storage for his car and the cost to hire a replacement car while his is 
repaired.
AAUICL arranged to assess the damage to Mr Ps car and notified the third partys insurer of 
the claim. The next day the third-party insurer responded to AAUICL disputing liability. 
AAUICL assessed the images of Mr Ps car and deemed it to be whats known as a total 
loss. At this point AAUICL valued Mr Ps car and then wrote to the third-partys insurer to 
request payment for it. The request for settlement was sent to the third-party insurer almost 
6 weeks after it had said it was disputing liability. 
The third-party insurer then responded a week later to say it wasnt accepting liability and 
that it had raised this with AAUICL almost 7 weeks earlier. As the third-party insurer wasnt 
accepting liability for the accident, AAUICL referred Mr P back to his motor insurer to deal 
with the claim for his car. Unhappy with how the claim was progressing Mr P complained. He 
said hed been given incorrect information when he called to claim and wasnt happy with 
how the claim was being handled. 
AAUICL reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. In the final response letter, it 
acknowledged errors in the call Mr P initially made to his insurance broker. AAUICL also 
acknowledged delays in the claim on the ATE policy and that Mr P had endured long hold 
times when trying to get through. Due to this Mr P was offered £150 compensation for the 
poor claim handling. Unhappy with AAUICLs response Mr P referred his complaint here, he 
said he wasnt happy with the settlement for his car, that hed been given incorrect 
information when he initially called to claim and that his claim had been poorly handled. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and found the final response letter covered the 
actions of Mr Ps broker and those of AAUICL. As theyre different legal entities she divided 
the compensation in half to account for each parties errors. Our investigator also found that 
AAUICLs poor claim handling on the ATE policy had delayed Mr Ps claim being passed 
back to his car insurer. Due to this she recommended AAUICL pay Mr P an additional £175 
compensation, bringing the total compensation for its errors to £250. 
AAUICL responded and queried which compensation was split between the broker and 
AAUICL. As AAUICL hasnt agreed to our investigators outcome the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I feel it would help to explain that Mr Ps complaint covers three 
different businesses who are separate legal entities. Because of this weve had to split his 
complaint and set them up against each business responsible for the different aspects.
Mr P made the first notification of loss call to his broker to report the claim, that aspect will 
need to be considered against his broker. Im aware his broker also acts as an agent for 
AAUICL. While the final response letter covers the first notification of loss call and the 
actions of AAUICL, as theyre separate legal entities, I have to consider them separately. 
In doing so in this decision I will only be looking at what AAUICL is responsible for under the 
ATE policy. Im aware we also have two other complaints, one against Mr Ps broker about 
the first notification of loss call and one against his car insurer about when the claim was 
passed back to them to deal with.
When Mr P was referred to AAUICL, it had a responsibility to deal with his claim promptly. 
The policy says that it only provides cover for one non-fault claim. I can see that AAUICL 
notified the third-party insurer of the claim and that it held the third-party responsible for the 
accident. The third-partys insurer responded the next day to explain it didnt agree and 
instead thought Mr P was at fault. 
In these situations, it would be normal for AAUICL to refer the claim back to Mr Ps insurer, 
as liability is in dispute. However, this didnt happen until almost seven weeks later, and after 
the third-party insurer had told AAUICL for a second time that it wasnt accepting liability. Im 
therefore satisfied that AAUICLs poor claim handling resulted in almost a seven week delay 
in Mr Ps claim being logged with his insurer. Ive therefore looked at the impact this has had. 
Mr P has had to unnecessarily chase AAUICL for updates, hes also now been delayed in 
having his claim assessed by his insurer by almost seven weeks. This is likely to cause a 
delay in having any claim payment made and has resulted in additional unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience to Mr P following what is a deeply disturbing event, the car accident. Im 
therefore satisfied AAUICL should compensate Mr P for this. 
As the final response letter covers the actions of Mr Ps broker and AAUICL, Im satisfied a 
fair and reasonable starting point is to split the compensation equally between the two 
businesses. That means for AAUICLs errors, its offered Mr P £75. Given the impact its poor 
claim handling had on Mr P, as explained above, Im satisfied AAUICL should increase this 
by £175. So, in total AAUICL needs to pay Mr P £250 for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P a total of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Alex NewmanOmbudsman