DRN-2971947
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him without due cause. 
What happened
Mr B held a credit card account with Vanquis from December 2019 to March 2020. During 
this time, Mr B utilised the credit balance on the account through cash withdrawals (and 
associated fees), point of sale transactions, and other charges on the account. This led to a 
balance of approximately -£1,100 on the account. There were two direct debit payments 
made towards the account in January and February 2020, but these were reversed. 
Vanquis contacted Mr B and offered him 60 days to contact them or rectify the returned 
payments. They said they didnt receive any payments or any communication from Mr B. So 
they reviewed Mr Bs account and concluded that Mr B had misused his credit facility. So, 
they referred Mr B to Cifas who registered a fraud prevention marker in his name. In support 
of this they said: 
Mr B must have known he didnt have the funds to repay the credit facility as by his 
own admission he was in financial difficulty, but continued to use the credit facility to 
make transactions and accumulate charges; 
The first direct debit was reversed in January, but Mr B continued to complete 
transactions on the account which included three cash withdrawals;
After the second direct debit was reversed in February, Mr B attempted to make 
three further transactions which included a cash withdrawal of £500, one of £400 
and a lower value point of sale transaction;
He would have known his direct debits wouldnt be honoured, and so the credit card 
debt would still be owed; 
He didnt make any efforts to repay the debt; and
He didnt contact them to let him know of his personal circumstances. 
Mr B said two of his bank accounts were closed later in 2020, which led him to discover 
Vanquis had registered the Cifas fraud prevention marker against him. He complained to 
Vanquis that the marker had been loaded unfairly. He explained that he suffers with 
depression and a gambling addiction. This has led to him having to go on long term sick in 
the past, and he has sought help from medical professionals. He suffered from a relapse in 
January 2020.  
He said at the time of the relevant account activity, he was in financial difficulties for about 
two to three months. He said he hadnt known that his bank had reversed his direct debit 
payments to Vanquis. He explained that most of his accounts were in their overdraft but 
allowed him to keep spending so he didnt know the lack of funds would mean the payments 
were reversed  he thought they would just go through. He accepted he had not been on top 
of things financially but said he hadnt set out to defraud anyone - and so he felt the Cifas 
marker was unfair. 
When Mr B and Vanquis were unable to reach an agreement about the complaint, Mr B 
came to our service. He explained that the Cifas marker was having a negative impact on 
him. Our investigator looked at what happened and recommended that Mr Bs complaint be 
upheld. They felt that he had allowed his financial situation to get out of control as a result of 
the relapse of his gambling addiction and depression  but that this amounted to being 
fiscally irresponsible rather than deliberately dishonest. This was not the only debt that had 
gone unpaid at the time  and they noted that Mr B had sought financial advice and set up 
payment plans for other debts he accrued whilst he was going through this difficult period in 
his life. They said he hadnt reversed the direct debits in question himself - they also felt that 
Vanquis had acted very quickly in deciding to register Mr B with Cifas  the account activity 
only occurred over two months before Vanquis acted on their concerns. So, when 
considered in its entirety, our investigator felt the most appropriate result of this complaint 
would be for the Cifas marker to be removed from Mr B. 
Vanquis didnt agree. They said: 
Theyd asked Cifas to review this matter, and Cifas had said the loading could remain 
as theyd followed the right guidance and had sufficient evidence to justify the 
loading; 
They had shown that Mr B had spent funds that were returned unpaid;
There were two instances where Mr B had checked immediately to see if the 
payment was still spendable; 
Mr B made no attempts to contact Vanquis, or make payments towards the debt, 
despite them writing to him over two months before the decision to load the Cifas 
was made; 
They had evidenced that Mr B was trying to spend the next Direct Debit payment 
which was also returned unpaid;
Our investigator said their opinion on this complaint hadnt changed  so as an agreement 
wasnt reached, it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
The type of Cifas marker that Vanquis applied is for misuse of facility  relating to Mr B 
utilising credit balance when he knew payments towards it would be reversed  sometimes 
known as uncleared effects fraud. In order to file such a marker, Vanquis are not required to 
prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of fraud or a financial crime. But it must 
show that there are reasonable grounds that amounted to more than mere suspicion or 
concern. Cifas guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So the relevant finding I need to make is whether I believe Vanquis have sufficient evidence 
to conclude that Mr B intentionally spent credit balance when he knew that payments to his 
credit facility would be reversed, and that he was deliberately dishonest in doing so such that 
it would be able to escalate its concerns to Cifas. I do not think Vanquis were entitled to do 
so; Ill explain why. There are two main elements I would expect Vanquis to show in order to make such a filing 
to Cifas. The first relates to the account activity  money being spent on a credit facility that 
would not have been possible but for a payment from the customers bank account, with that 
payment being reversed shortly thereafter. And I agree with Vanquis that this element was 
fulfilled in this case. Mr B was only able to spend on the account due to the funding made 
available by a direct debit due to his credit facility from his bank account  and his bank then 
reversed the payment due to a lack of available funds in his bank account. This does amount 
to Mr B spending money that was not legitimately his. For example  he withdrew cash twice 
the day after the first direct debit payment was reversed. He also made attempts to further 
spend after the reversal of a direct debit  with multiple attempted transactions on the 28 and 
29 February 2020, when the direct debit had reversed on 28 February.
Secondly, I would expect Vanquis to be able to show strong evidence that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in relation to this account activity  in simple terms meaning that he 
knew the available funds on his Vanquis credit card werent his and proceeded with 
payments regardless. 
I do think in the first instance Vanquis did make reasonable steps to contact Mr B about his 
account  they have been able to show they contacted him over the two months and asked 
him to rectify the problem or to get in touch. And I appreciate that the lack of contact from Mr 
B led them to believe that he was deliberately dishonest  he didnt contact them or arrange 
payments to the account to rectify the problem. But I think this is where my thinking deviates 
from that of Vanquis  I dont believe Mr B was deliberately dishonest. 
I do recognise that Mr B made payments on temporarily available funds prior to the reversal 
of the payment to his credit facility. This means he was spending or attempting to spend 
when there were in reality no available funds to spend. But I have considered Mr Bs 
testimony and the evidence provided from his doctor. And I think on balance it is most likely 
that Mr B was struggling emotionally and financially, as well as with an addiction, and wasnt 
wholly aware of the lack of available credit with the paying bank at the times the events in 
question took place. He said that he was aware that there werent available funds on his 
accounts, but that payments had continued to go through so he just assumed he was getting 
himself into further debt, knowing he would later need to repay this. So, I dont think he 
understood he saw his actions as causing a loss to anyone other than himself in the long 
run. I am not saying that the information about the state of his finances wasnt readily 
available to him  but I think this is a case of someone struggling, simply unable to cope, and 
so burying their head in the sand. 
Vanquis told us that on the day of the first payment Mr B did call them twice but hung up 
before he spoke to someone. And I think this shows the extent to which he was made simply 
unable to cope with the sort of tasks that most of us complete with relative ease on a 
frequent basis  and that it was necessary for him to simply pretend it was not happening. 
He spoke to Vanquis again in February and didnt mention the possibility of the direct debit 
reversing again  which I think goes to further prove this point. 
I am pleased to see Mr B does appear to have been doing better since this difficult time in 
his life, and that he has made efforts to begin his journey of repaying the debts he owed. I 
have seen evidence of payment plans he has already entered to numerous debtors, and I do 
think he always thought he would have to repay the debts, but simply intended to delay 
dealing with any of it. And with this in mind, it seems unduly harsh to label him a fraudster, 
and make him deal with the many negative consequences that come with a Cifas marker. I 
am not saying his actions or lack of financial management should go completely un-noted  
but there will be defaults or other negative markers on his credit file that more fairly reflect 
the circumstances here.
Putting things right
Having considered all of the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I find that Vanquis must remove the Cifas marker registered against Mr B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Vanquis to remove the Cifas 
marker registered against Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman