DRN-2433836
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy about how Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) dealt with a claim for a water 
leak under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2014, Miss T made an insurance claim for a water leak from the flat above hers that had 
entered her home and caused damage. Allianz accepted the claim and paid a cash 
settlement for the repairs.
In 2020, Miss Ts bathroom ceiling collapsed. Miss T tried to claim through her current 
insurer, which said that the damage to the ceiling would need to be dealt with by Allianz as it 
was a long term leak that started before it provided Miss Ts insurance. 
Miss T contacted Allianz and said that it hadnt correctly dealt with her claim in 2014, as it 
hadnt replaced her bathroom ceiling. As a result, the ceiling had collapsed in 2020. Allianz 
looked at how it had dealt with the claim in 2014 and also assessed the new damage. It said 
that it had appropriately dealt with the claim in 2014 and that the ceiling hadnt needed to be 
replaced at that time.
Miss T complained to Allianz that in 2014 it didnt properly repair the leak before arranging to 
replace the ceiling. When Allianz replied it said that when it assessed the claim in 2014, it 
didnt find any requirement to replace the ceiling. It had then cash settled the claim, so 
couldnt be held responsible for any work carried out by Miss Ts own contractor.
So, Miss T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
she thought that Allianz had dealt with the 2014 claim appropriately and that it wasnt 
responsible for the ceiling collapsing in 2020.
As Miss T did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at what happened with this claim, I dont uphold the complaint. I will explain 
why.
In 2014, Allianz assessed the claim for water damage and agreed to make a cash settlement 
so that Miss T could arrange for the repairs herself. Miss T has said that Allianz should have 
replaced the ceiling as part of the work. 
Ive looked at what Allianz found when it dealt with the claim in 2014. Allianzs surveyor 
noted that there was damage to the walls and ceilings in the bathroom, hall and lounge. He 
also conducted damp meter readings and these didnt identify a damp issue.  The damage to 
the bathroom was recorded as water marking to ceiling and walls. Ive read the scope of 
works that was drawn up to settle the claim and this didnt include replacing the bathroom 
ceiling. It only listed redecoration. I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss T raised any 
concerns about this at the time. Allianz also recorded in its claim notes that the owner of the 
property above had the leak fixed and had provided a plumbers receipt to show this. So I 
dont think Allianz had reason to think that there was an ongoing leak or that the ceiling 
needed to be replaced. 
Looking at Allianzs records, these noted that Miss T had said she wasnt confident there 
was only one leak and that she would speak to Environmental Health about contacting the 
neighbour above and arranging a leak detection survey. I havent seen anything to suggest 
Miss T then went back to Allianz with any concerns.
Allianz made a cash payment to Miss T to settle the claim. As part of this complaint, Miss T 
was unable to provide receipts to show what work had been carried out following the claim. 
However, given that Allianz didnt carry out the work, it couldnt be held responsible for any 
issues with the quality of that work anyway.
Miss T also complained that there were delays in Allianz reconsidering her claim when she 
contacted it in 2020. It seems that there was an issue with the file being retrieved from the 
archive. I can understand that this would have been frustrating for Miss T. However, looking 
at the records, Allianz seemed to start looking into whether there were issues with how it 
dealt with the 2014 claim before the file was returned from the archive. Claim handlers also 
seem to have regularly checked whether there was a way to get the file back any quicker. 
So, I havent seen anything to suggest that Allianz tried to avoid looking into the claim or that 
it delayed taking any action until it received the file.
Im aware that Miss T has also said that she thinks Allianz should have contacted her 
neighbours insurer to deal with the leak and that it should have helped her to recover her 
costs in 2020. However, Miss T didnt raise this as part of her complaint to Allianz, so Im 
unable to comment on this. 
Thinking about all of the above, I havent seen anything to suggest Allianz didnt properly 
deal with Miss Ts claim in 2014, or that how it dealt with the claim resulted in the ceiling 
collapsing in 2020, so I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman