DRN-3650722
The complaint
Mr G and Ms P are unhappy Aspen Insurance UK Limited turned down a claim they made 
on their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G and Ms P were due to get married in November 2021 (a date which had already been 
rescheduled as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic). In May 2021 a payment of around £8000 
was due to their venue. Restrictions in place as a result of the pandemic meant it was 
unclear whether Ms Ps parents and other members of her family (who live overseas) would 
be able to attend. So Mr G and Ms P took the difficult decision to cancel their wedding and 
made a claim on their wedding insurance policy for the original deposit theyd paid to the 
venue. 
Aspen turned down the claim. It said while it understood the reasons for the cancellation this 
wasnt something their policy covered. However, it accepted there had been delays in it 
reaching that decision and offered a total of £250 to recognise the impact of that on Mr G 
and Ms P. 
Our investigator agreed the claim wasnt covered and didnt think Aspen needed to do 
anything more. Mr G and Ms P didnt agree. They thought the impact of Covid-19 at the time 
they cancelled hadnt been properly considered. They also referenced an article about 
wedding insurance and the impact of Covid-19 more generally. So I need to reach a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I do understand this has been an extremely distressing experience for Mr G and Ms P. 
It must have been very upsetting for them to have to cancel their wedding (particularly as 
that followed on from previous date changes). Theyve gone into some detail about why they 
felt they had to cancel and I completely understand why they didnt feel able to go ahead 
without Ms Ps family (and in particular her parents) being able to attend. 
But the question for me is whether the claim they then made is one thats covered under the 
terms of their policy with Aspen. And while Ive read the article that Mr G and Ms P provided 
my focus is on the circumstances of their claim and the policy terms that are relevant to it. 
In common with other insurance policies Mr G and Ms Ps doesnt cover them for every 
eventuality. For cover to be available what happened needs, as a starting point, to fall within 
one of the insured events set out in the policy. And although the policy does provide cover 
for cancellation thats only where one of a specified list of events has taken place. That 
includes:
your inability or that of at least 50% of any of your parents or step-parents (including 
guardians or foster parents) and attendants or at least 50% of the guests to reach the 
wedding or wedding reception venue due to adverse weather conditions or natural 
catastrophe'"
I know Mr G and Ms P think that should apply here because Ms Ps parents would have 
been unable to attend the wedding. And they argue Covid-19 should be classed as a natural 
catastrophe. But the policy has a specific definition of natural catastrophe which is Volcanic 
eruption, avalanche, flood, tsunami, earthquake, landslide, hurricane, tornado, tropical 
cyclone or wildfire, or named (by an appropriate and relevant meteorological authority) 
storm. So to meet the policy terms the inability to travel needs to result from a natural 
catastrophe meeting that definition. I dont the Covid-19 pandemic does and so I dont think 
this section of the policy covers the claim they made. 
The policy also covers cancellation as a result of the booked venue for the wedding or 
wedding reception being unable to hold your wedding and/or wedding reception due to 
bankruptcy, liquidation, ceasing to trade due to financial failure, an outbreak of  infectious 
disease, damage to the venue, natural catastrophe or adverse weather conditions, murder or 
suicide at the venue or its closure by a relevant authority. 
So if their venue had been unable to host the wedding because it was closed as a result of 
Covid-19 restrictions thats something the policy would potentially cover. But at the point the 
wedding was due to take place in November 2021 all restrictions on weddings had been 
lifted.    
I appreciate they took the decision to cancel in May 2021. And if Mr G and Ms P reasonably 
thought at that point their venue would be unable to host their wedding because of Covid-19 
and associated restrictions it might not be fair of Aspen to turn down their claim. But at the 
point of cancellation weddings and receptions were permitted (with limits on numbers) and 
the Governments published Covid road map anticipated that all legal limits on social contact 
would be removed after June 2021. So I dont think the claim could reasonably be covered 
under this policy term either.
I do think there was some delay by Aspen in reaching a decision on the claim (and in 
providing its subsequent response to the complaint Mr G and Ms P made). I appreciate this 
will have been a difficult time for Mr G and Ms P. But having taken that into account I think 
the £250 Aspen has offered does enough to recognise the distress and inconvenience they 
were caused by the delay in its response being provided to them. 
My final decision
I dont think Aspen Insurance UK Limited did anything wrong in turning down the claim 
Mr G and Ms P made. And I think the offer of £250 its made for customer service failings is 
fair. So it will need to pay Mr G and Ms P £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman