DRN-4178513
The complaint
Mr G complains about the repairs esure Insurance Limited carried out to his car following a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants his car repaired and compensation for 
his trouble and upset and for being without his car for four months.
What happened
Mr Gs car was stolen and later recovered damaged. esure took it for repairs. But Mr G was 
unhappy that the repairs were unsuccessful, and this led to the car being declared a total 
loss. Mr G said the attempted repairs were unnecessary. He was unhappy with the time 
taken and that the courtesy car provided didnt suit his familys needs. esure offered Mr G 
the options of the cars market value, its market value less the salvage if he wanted to retain 
it, or to withdraw the claim and retain his No Claims Bonus (NCB). But Mr G was unhappy 
with this response. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure had 
tried to repair the car, but it found that further repairs were needed, and these were 
uneconomical. She thought the further options esure then offered Mr G werent 
unreasonable. But she thought esure should pay Mr G £150 compensation for delaying the 
claim. And she thought esure hadnt provided Mr G with the courtesy car he was entitled to 
under his policys terms and conditions. So she thought it should pay Mr G £300 for this. 
esure agreed to do this. But Mr G thought incompetent repairs had caused his car to be a 
total loss. He thought esure should pay more compensation to cover his costs. He said hed 
lost his No Claims Bonus (NCB) and was still paying insurance for a car he didnt have. 
Our Investigator then suggested further repair options. But esure rejected these because it 
had already paid Mr G the cars market value in settlement of his claim, less the salvage as 
Mr G wanted to retain it. It had waived the policy excess. It said paying for further repairs 
would overcompensate Mr G. 
Mr G replied that he thought the compensation suggested wasnt sufficient for the 
aggravation caused. He asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr G has accepted esures option of paying him the cars market value and 
retaining its salvage. The amounts for the cars market value and its retention are in keeping 
with esures previous offer made in December 2022, and the £250 policy excess was 
waived. Our Investigator wasnt aware of this when she issued her second view. And I think 
that this development makes her suggested options for further repairs redundant as Mr G 
has already received a settlement in keeping with his policys terms and conditions. Mr G 
hasnt raised any further concerns about this.  
The car was returned to Mr G after a delay. Our Investigator asked esure about this and it 
explained that the condition of the car and the location of the drop off required a specialist 
recovery. I can understand that this caused Mr G further frustration. But I cant consider that 
here as I cant see that Mr G has complained to esure about this and so given it a chance to 
respond. 
Mr G said he was still paying his monthly premiums for his policy at a higher cost because 
his NCB had been reduced. I can see that the policy was renewed in September 2022 
following the claim in August 2022. The policy certificate explains that if a claim has been 
made and esure hasnt been able to recover its losses, then the unprotected NCB will be 
reduced. So I think it was in keeping with the policys terms and conditions for esure to 
reduce the NCB at renewal. The premium would still be payable until Mr G had accepted 
esures offer to declare the car a total loss. 
Mr G was unhappy with the repairs and the delays in the claim. So Ive considered the 
history of the claim. Mr G helpfully provided us with a detailed timeline, and Ive also referred 
to esures file.
I also note that Mr G is a professional engineer. But were not engineers. We dont assess 
whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in 
these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and 
whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
The car was stolen in mid-August 2022 but later recovered by the police and handed over to 
esure following forensic examinations. Mr G said he was asked to attend the approved 
repairers to look at the car in mid-September 2022. He said they agreed that there was 
minor superficial damage to be repaired. But I can see from the engineers report that 
extensive repairs were required. 
Mr G later received a call from the garage saying that the car was beyond economical repair. 
This was because both keys had been stolen and the repairer had consulted locksmiths who 
said they couldnt be replaced. Instead, extensive replacement parts were required, making 
the car a total loss. Mr G disagreed and consulted a locksmith which said the keys could be 
replaced for about £450. But I cant see that he provided a report from the locksmith for 
esure to consider.
After discussions with esures engineer, Mr G was told by the repairer that repairs were 
going ahead. But he later found that no bodywork repairs had been made and the car was 
taken to a dealers garage to have the locks replaced when the repairer had told him it was 
to have the keys programmed. 
Mr G thought replacing the locks was unnecessary and caused further delays. But I can see 
that esures engineer instructed the repairer to get the dealer to fit new locks and recode the 
new keys. And I think he reasonably did this based on advice received from locksmiths 
consulted by the repairer. 
Mr G complained to esure about this in mid-October. He had then been without his car for 
two months and he had been provided with a courtesy car that was too small for his familys 
needs. He wanted a different repairer. 
A month later, Mr G found that the dealer had changed the locks and a recode had failed 
and expensive parts were now required which, along with the bodywork repairs, made the 
car a total loss. This meant that the car hire cover ceased, but Mr G was entitled to further 
hire for 21 days or until 2 days after payment had been made. Mrs G, a named driver on the 
policy, complained that the car was too small for her needs.
In its response to Mr Gs complaint a further month later, esure said the dealers garage had 
decided that the car was uneconomical to repair. It said the dealer was unable to recode the 
keys without considerable further expense. esure offered Mr G the three options stated 
above, but he declined these. From what I can see, the car hire then ceased. Mr G said hed been without a car from this time, but I think he could have accepted esures offer whilst 
pursuing his complaint and so mitigated his losses. 
I can understand Mr Gs frustration. But I can see that esure relied on the dealers garage 
decision to attempt repairs, which were ultimately unsuccessful. Mr G said his own locksmith 
was prepared to make the repair for a small amount. But I havent seen that esure had 
evidence in the form of a report to consider. esure also relied on an engineers assessment 
to decide that the car was then beyond economical repair. 
So I think esure reasonably declared the car a total loss. And I think it reasonably relied on 
expert advice to attempt the repairs and Im satisfied that it justified its decision not to pay for 
further repairs. esure offered Mr G three options to resolve his claim. And Mr G eventually 
accepted one of these and payment was made to him. So Im satisfied esure settled Mr Gs 
claim in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
esure agreed there had been a delay in the claim due to the car not being taken to the 
dealers garage sooner. I can see that Mr G was kept mobile in this time. And so I think £150 
compensation for this is fair and reasonable, in keeping with our published guidance.  
I can also see that Mr Gs policy provided for a similar size or type of vehicle to your car 
while his was being repaired. esure didnt provide Mr G with a similar hire car. So he was 
caused inconvenience until the point when his car hire cover ceased. But, after the car was 
deemed to be a total loss, Mr G was provided with hire beyond his entitlement to further hire 
for 21 days or until 2 days after payment had been made. So Im satisfied that esures 
agreement to pay him £300 compensation for not providing his correct hire car entitlement is 
fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £450 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman