DRN-2538412
The complaint
Mrs E complains AXA Insurance UK Plc held her at fault for a car accident and also that it 
didnt advise her of that fact.
What happened
Mrs E was involved in an accident with a horse, her car suffered extensive damage. 
AXA, after reviewing CCTV footage of the accident decided it wouldnt be able to pursue the 
owner of the horse for the damage to Mrs Es car. It therefore made a payment to Mrs E for 
the value of her car and closed the claim. It recorded it as a fault claim against Mrs E. 
Mrs E didnt find out the claim had been settled against her until she spotted it on her 
renewal notice two years later. She complained to AXA both about the liability decision as 
this had meant her no claims bonus had reduced and her premium had gone up. And also, 
that she wasnt told about its decision at the time. 
AXA apologised that Mrs E hadnt been made aware of its decision. It explained it 
considered all of the available evidence at the time and it wouldnt be changing the liability 
decision. 
Mrs E remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at the case. She explained the role of this service isnt to decide who 
was at fault for an accident, but we do look at whether an insurer acted reasonably in coming 
to the decision it did.  She said didnt think AXA had done anything wrong when reaching its 
decision. She did however say AXA should pay Mrs E £100 compensation for the fact it 
failed to let her know the outcome of the claim. 
Mrs E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said she has never seen the 
CCTV footage and disputes the fact the horse was in the road prior to the accident and 
therefore should have been visible to her.  She points out, at the accident site the owner of 
the horse said it had a temperamental character and that she would be compensated by 
their insurer. It is her understanding no claim was made by the third party for the loss of the 
horse. Mrs E outlined in detail the impact the accident has had on her and her life. 
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
In relation to liability, and as the investigator explained, its not the role of this service to
decide which party in this case was at fault for causing the accident, only a court of law can
do that. The insurance companies representing the parties can also agree between
themselves which party is more likely to be deemed at fault for causing the accident. Its only
when the insurers disagree on this  the matter goes to court. Its fairly rare insurers dont
agree, since they deal with such issues regularly as part of their daily business and are fully
aware of what a court is likely to decide in most circumstances.
In almost all motor insurance policies, theres a term, which allows the insurer to
takeover, defend or settle any claim against its policyholder as it thinks fit. And AXAs
policy is no different. My role and that of this service is merely to see if AXA applied this term 
to the claim circumstances fairly and reasonably. And I think it did.
This is because it viewed the CCTV evidence, alongside the information provided by both 
parties, and took all this on board in making its decision. And given the circumstances, AXA 
decided that it wouldnt be able to prove at court that the accident was caused by the 
negligence of the horses owner/rider. So, even though the third party didnt make a claim for 
costs, as AXA had to pay Mrs E the value of her vehicle, there was an outlay it was unable 
to recover from any other party. 
I appreciate Mrs E has outlined the profound impact this accident has had on her and her 
life, and she has my sympathies. I understand Mrs E feels strongly about how the accident 
happened, especially based on the information that was given to her about the horse at the 
time. Given she hasnt been able to review the footage and the time that has passed, I can 
also appreciate why her recall of what happened might be different to that shown on the 
CCTV footage. Ive reviewed the CCTV footage myself and I can see the horse did enter the 
road and was moving towards Mrs Es car in the seconds before the impact. Ive questioned 
AXA further whether the time difference, which was previously stated as the horse being in 
the road for a minute, would have made a difference to its decision. It has confirmed it 
wouldnt have.   
Having looked at everything that has been provided I dont think the position that AXA has 
taken was unreasonable or that AXA made an error. So, Im happy its decision on liability is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
It appears there was a misunderstanding and Mrs E wasnt notified the claim had been 
recorded against her. The investigator recommended Mrs E be paid £100 compensation. I 
think this is fair and reasonably reflects the inconvenience this caused her, so Ill be asking 
AXA to make this payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Es complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. I direct it 
to pay her £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021. 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman