DRN-2509931
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a pet insurance policy by Bought By Many Ltd.
What happened
Mrs M had a pet insurance policy sold to her by Bought By Many Ltd (BBM). This was 
originally bought to cover one cat. Two further cats were added at later dates.
In November 2019, Mrs M made a claim when one of her cats suffered an allergic reaction to 
a booster job.
The claim was paid. But BBM told Mrs M the policy didnt cover cats used to earn money or 
as part of a business.
They said they were aware she was selling kittens produced by her cats. They said the 
cover would remain in place for now - as long her cats had no more litters - and the position 
would be reviewed at renewal.
Mrs M later cancelled the policy herself. But she made a complaint to BBM. She said shed 
been mis-sold the policy originally, because it wasnt made clear to her that her cats wouldnt 
be covered if she used them as a hobby breeder.
BBM didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. They said the policy terms were clear that pets used 
to earn money couldnt be covered. So, Mrs M brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think BBM had done anything wrong.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She says shes now 
missed out on buying a policy at a fixed rate for the lifetime of her cats, because these are 
available only before the cats are two years old.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms policy says pets are covered for the cost of treatment relating to complications of 
their first pregnancy. But not for complications arising from any subsequent pregnancies.
Mrs M says she took this to mean  or imply  that she could allow her cats to become 
pregnant without losing cover  though she was aware that for any but the first pregnancy, 
complications arising from pregnancy would not be covered.
The policy also says the insurer wont cover claims:
 if you earn money from your pet or your pet is part of a business.
Thats set out quite clearly in the policy. Its not hidden away on the small print, its given due 
prominence. 
And its not in any way inherently unfair or unreasonable. The insurer is entitled to decide 
what they want to cover and to offer that cover to customers. If its not suitable for them they 
can seek cover elsewhere.
When BBM sold the policy to Mrs M, they sent her the policy documents and asked her to 
read them and check the policy was suitable.
During the process of buying the policy, Mrs M was shown a set of declarations and 
assumptions. One of these declarations said:
My pet is not used to earn money or in connection with any business.
Ive listened to the call when Mrs M bought the policy. She clearly says that shes read the 
declarations and assumptions and agrees with them all.
Mrs M tells us she sells kittens produced from her cats. She has a Facebook page 
advertising the kittens for sale. Her address is listed on a mapping app, which allows 
businesses to advertise their services. 
Mrs M says she doesnt make a profit form this  and its not a business. She says the parts 
of the policy which say you cant earn money from your pet(s) contradicts the section which 
says complications of first pregnancies are covered.
I dont agree with Mrs M about that point. People may allow their pets to become pregnant 
(or that may happen by accident) when they have no intention of selling the offspring. Those 
peoples pets will be covered (except for complications arising for a second or later 
pregnancy). Whilst pets used for breeding, in order to sell the offspring, will not.
I dont think the policy is ambiguous. It says the insurer wont cover pets if the owner earns 
money from them or the pet is part of a business. The word in the middle of that sentence is 
or not and.
Mrs M says shes not running a business selling the kittens. Im not convinced by that given 
the on-line evidence, although I can accept that there might be some ambiguity about what 
the term a business definitively means. 
Even if I accept that Mrs M isnt running a business, she is selling the kittens  and so 
earning money from the cats she uses for breeding. And Im satisfied that means the 
exclusion applies.
Mrs M has raised a number of points about whether HMRC regard hobby breeding as a 
business  and whether shes simply engaging in a hobby.
I dont think thats relevant. The policy terms are clear. The insurer doesnt cover pets used 
for breeding litters for sale (very likely because they are more likely to need veterinary 
treatment). Mrs M sells the kittens  and by definition earns money from that. So, the policy 
wasnt intended for her and doesnt cover her cats. 
Im satisfied all of that was  or should have been  clear to Mrs M when she bought the 
policy. And I cant conclude that it was mis-sold to her by BBM.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman