DRN-3231611
The complaint and what happened
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont reimburse transactions 
he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mr H was looking to update his cars satnav device. He looked online and came 
across a link that required him to input some details. He was then contacted by 
someone purporting to be from a well-known satnav brand. He was told to take the 
SD card from his car and place it into his laptop. He was also told to download some 
software to help with the update and that it would cost £3. Mr H thinks he gave the 
caller his card details to make payment and explained his online banking details were 
pre-saved onto his laptop. 
Shortly after downloading the software, Mr H says his screen went blank, but he 
could see the cursor moving on the screen. He became suspicious about what was 
happening and checked his online banking and noticed he had two payments 
pending to cryptocurrency exchanges  one for £1,000 and another for £400. 
Mr H called his bank as the payments were still pending and so thought they could 
be stopped. However, they couldnt be. Halifax refused to reimburse the transactions 
as it said he had previously been warned not to share his card details or personal 
information over the phone, as a result of two previous scams. And so it considered 
Mr H had been negligent. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. As Mr H had likely provided his card 
details in order to make payment, she was satisfied the first transaction for £1,000 
would be considered authorised. However, she didnt think the second payment was 
and so she asked Halifax to reimburse that transaction and add 8% interest. Halifax 
agreed the outcome, but Mr H didnt. Although Mr H understood the outcome, he 
didnt think it fair and asked for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr H isnt liable for 
payments he didnt authorise or otherwise consent to, unless he failed with intent or 
gross negligence, to comply with the terms of the account or keep the account details 
safe. 
Ive considered whether Mr H authorised the transactions that have been disputed, 
and so in line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps in the form and 
procedure required to make the payments or gave someone else consent to 
complete them. 
The terms and conditions dont particularly set out how an online transaction would 
be made. Our investigator set out the likely process of needing the card details, the 
expiry date and the three digits on the reverse of the card. Neither party has disputed 
that and so I proceed on the same basis. 
I understand Mr H gave his card details to another party during a call to carry out the 
transaction. He did so to pay the £3 charge to update his satnav.  Im satisfied that 
the entering in of his card details means the payment was authenticated. And as the 
agreed form and procedure was used to make the payment  the entering of the card 
details needed to complete the transaction, Mr H consented to the payment; he 
provided his card information to another party in order to complete the transaction. 
Although Mr H was tricked which resulted in a higher payment than he thought being 
made, under the PSRs that doesnt invalidate the consent he gave when providing 
his card details. For that reason I agree with the investigator that the first transaction 
for £1,000 was authorised by Mr H and so he is liable for it.
Im not persuaded that providing consent for the first payment, meant the second 
payment was also authorised; Mr H only understood and gave consent for one 
transaction to be carried out.  I therefore agree with the investigator that the second 
payment for £400 wasnt authorised by Mr H, or otherwise consented to. Im also not 
persuaded that providing card details for what is believed to be a genuine transaction 
(£3 for updating the satnav) amounts to gross negligence or a failure with intent to 
keep account details safe; such transactions are carried out thousands of times a 
day. Halifax has agreed to refund this transaction and add interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to:
Refund Mr H £400 (less any funds since recovered); and
Add 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement (less any 
lawfully deductible tax). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman