DRN-3724753
The complaint
Ms D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC rejected her claim against it under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to her purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Ms D bought solar panels for her home in 2019. The purchase was funded by a bank 
transfer from her Lloyds current account, and so she supposed that Lloyds was therefore 
liable for the acts and omissions of the supplier of the panels under the Act. Ms D says the 
panels were mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that section 75 of the Act 
applied to Ms Ds purchase, and so Lloyds was not liable for any mis-sale by the supplier. 
Ms D did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because section 75 of the Act does not apply here. I will explain why.
Where goods or services are purchased on credit, section 75 can (in certain circumstances) 
make the provider of credit jointly and equally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. But section 75 doesnt 
apply to here, because Ms D didnt buy the solar panels on credit. She just paid for them 
with a transfer of her own money from her own account.
It follows that section 75 does not make Lloyds liable for anything the supplier did. I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable of me to still hold Lloyds responsible for any mis-sale by 
the supplier in circumstances where section 75 does not make it liable  even though the 
supplier is no longer trading. And I can see no other basis on which I could uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
