DRN-1430606
 
The complaint
Miss A complains about the unaffordable charges Barclays Bank UK PLC has made to her 
account.
What happened
Miss A says Barclays account charges are excessive and have caused her financial 
difficulties. She also says Barclays changed her account without telling her and that has 
caused further problems. Miss A says she has gone without essential items such as food as 
a result of what has taken place, and would like all charges refunded.
Barclays says any account charges have been applied in line with account terms and 
conditions. It says it changed Miss A's account in 2016 when she was no longer entitled to a 
graduate account and gave her notice of that change. It also says all account statements 
have details of the new account and Miss A rejected an account pack which it says must 
mean she was aware of the change. Barclays says it has no record of Miss A telling it about 
financial difficulties and has written to her on numerous occasions asking her if she was in 
such difficulties. It doesn't give us permission to look at Miss A's complaint about events that 
took place more than six years before the complaint was brought.
Miss A brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the charges were applied in line with account terms and conditions and said they 
couldn't be challenged on the grounds they were too high and so unfair. The investigator 
thought Barclays had told Miss A about the account change and must have known as she 
had rejected part of that change. And didn't think there was any record of her telling Barclays 
about financial difficulties.
Miss A doesn't accept that view and says the charges are too high. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this complaint and I don't think it's made a 
mistake.
I can see that Miss A is complaining about charges going back over many years. I make 
clear to Miss A that we, under the rules we operate under, can only consider her complaint 
about the last six years of charges and that Barclays doesn't give us permission to look at 
charges outside that time period. There are exceptions to that rule if I find that for example 
Miss A wasn't aware of the charges at the time or if there were exceptional reasons why a 
complaint couldn't reasonably be brought earlier. I can't see that Miss A says either of those 
exceptions apply and I accept Miss A doesn't say we ought to look at all the charges outside 
that time limit.In 2009 it was held by the Supreme Court that bank charges can't be challenged on the 
grounds that they are too high and so unfair. So whilst I appreciate Miss A says Barclays 
account charges are excessive, I hope she understands that is not something I can fairly 
consider. I have looked at that account terms and conditions which I think Miss A would have 
agreed to when the account was opened and I'm satisfied the charges were applied in line 
with those terms and conditions. So I don't think Barclays has made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by applying them in these circumstances.
I have looked at Barclays records and I'm satisfied it told Miss A that it was changing the 
type of account she had and I'm also satisfied on balance she must have known about that 
change as I can see she rejected part of the new account's features. I also think the account 
statements and annual statement had reference to the new account and think Miss A ought 
to have noticed the change.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I can see that Barclays has asked Miss A on numerous occasions if she 
needed any such help but I'm satisfied that Miss A hasn't replied to Barclays attempts to ask 
her about such difficulties. And I'm satisfied having looked at Barclays records that Miss A 
hasn't told it about any such financial difficulties. So in those circumstances I wouldn't have 
expected Barclays to have been able to help Miss A.
Overall I'm satisfied Barclays has dealt fairly with this complaint, and so I can't order it to 
refund any account charges. I appreciate Miss A will be disappointed by my decision and I 
hope she will speak to Barclays specialist department if she is still in financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman