DRN-3097762
The complaint
Mr M complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited avoided his life 
assurance policies and refused his claim. 
In raising this complaint, Mr M has been helped by a third party that Ill refer to as B. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In May 2014 Mr M set up two life assurance policies with Legal and General through an 
independent financial adviser. One of the policies (policy A) provided £80,000 of life cover 
for monthly premiums of £14.01. The second policy (policy B) provided £20,000 of life and 
critical illness cover for monthly premiums of £18.44. The policies had 23-year terms, 
included indexation and terminal illness benefit. 
Mr M has been diagnosed with metastatic gastro-oesophageal junction cancer, which has 
also been confirmed to be terminal. Mr M made a critical illness claim under his policy in 
October 2020 but Legal and General declined it. They said, when applying for cover, Mr M 
failed to disclose that hed smoked in the 12 months prior. And, had they known his actual 
smoking history then they wouldve charged a much higher premium. Legal and General 
thought Mr M mustve known the answers he gave were wrong and that this information was 
relevant to them. So, they cancelled both policies and refunded the premiums hed paid.
A complaint was raised but Legal and Generals position didnt change. In short, they said:
The application form explained the importance of answering the questions correctly. 
They had no reason to assume any of the answers were incorrect and accepted 
Mr Ms answers in good faith.
They also sent a checking your details form to Mr M, and he signed this to say the 
answers he submitted were correct.
During their claim assessment, they became concerned about the answer Mr M gave 
relating to his smoking history  in which he said he had smoked none at all in the 
last 12 months.
His medical records contained two entries that showed hed relapsed and smoked 
cigarettes in the 12 months before applying for cover. They felt Mr M ought to have 
been able to recall this when completing the application as they consider smoking to 
be a lifestyle choice, and so would expect their customers to easily recall their 
smoking habits. 
In cases of misrepresentation they follow The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). And they classified Mr Ms misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless. In these circumstances, they are within their rights to decline 
a claim, cancel the policy from outset with a refund of the premiums paid  which is 
the action they took.
They cancelled both policies as they were applied for at the same time and the 
misrepresentation relates to them both. 
The claim form was submitted in October 2020 and they concluded the claim in 
February 2021. They accepted there were delays in assessing correspondence 
which contributed to delays in concluding the claim. They also werent proactive with 
providing updates and only reacted to telephone calls from Mr M (and his wife). 
Further, they felt their claims assessor ought to have called them back to explain any 
actions and the next steps.
They paid £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused because of this. 
The matter was referred to our service. Our investigator didnt think Legal and General acted 
unreasonably in avoiding the policies and refusing the claim. He thought the question asked 
of Mr M about his smoking history was clear and specific. And that, given Mr M contacted his 
GP in October and December 2013 to restart courses of Champix tablets (which help people 
stop smoking) after relapsing, he ought to have remembered that hed smoked. So, he didnt 
think Mr M took reasonable care when answering the question. 
Our investigator said Legal and General had shown that, had they known hed smoked, they 
wouldve charged a higher premium  and more than 50%. He also agreed with 
Legal and General that Mr Ms misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  as he likewise 
thought Mr M mustve known the information submitted was wrong and that it was relevant to 
Legal and General. And, in cases of deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, insurers are 
entitled to avoid the policy(s), refuse the claim and keep the premiums unless its unfair to do 
so. As Legal and General had refunded the premiums, he felt there was no need to 
comment on this further. 
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
B has referred to other final decisions made by our service that they feel are similar to 
Mr Ms circumstances. B consider these support their position that Legal and Generals 
decision to classify the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless to be an unfair outcome. I 
want to assure B that Ive considered these other final decisions when deciding this 
complaint. But, Ive at looked at Mr Ms specific circumstances and so I wont be commenting 
on or referring to them here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to assure Mr M that Ive 
given his complaint careful consideration. I appreciate the importance of this matter and I 
dont underestimate the difficult circumstances he and his family have found themselves in 
given his diagnosis. I must however look at whether it was reasonable for Legal and General 
to take the actions it did following the claim being raised. 
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he failed to disclose hed smoked in the 12 months prior to applying 
for cover. 
Ive looked at the question Mr M was asked in the applications:
During the last 12 months have you smoked any cigarettes, cigars, a pipe or used 
nicotine replacements?
A simple medical test may be required to check your answer.
If you smoke cigarettes, cigars, a pipe or use nicotine replacements weekly or more 
often you should answer Yes  regularly.
Mr M was given three answers to choose from: Yes  regularly, Yes  occasionally and 
None at all. Mr M gave the answer None at all. 
B argues that Mr M answered this question correctly and that he took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. Theyve explained that Mr M gave up smoking in February 2013 
and, but for the isolated incidents in October and December 2014, hasnt smoked since. B 
say Mr M didnt have his medical records available when completing the application and it 
was his genuine belief he hadnt smoked for a period of more than 12 months. They dont 
think two isolated lapses meet the description of an occasional or regular smoker. And they 
dont consider the application question is clear as the options were not appropriate or 
accurate.
It isnt in dispute that Mr M gave up smoking in February 2013, nor that he considered 
himself to be a non-smoker at the point of application. However, Mr M wasnt asked about 
his current smoking status. Instead, he was asked whether hed smoked any cigarettes in 
the last 12 months. Im satisfied this question is both clear and specific.
Mr Ms medical records show the following:
23 Oct 2013
Comment: [Mr M] rang and we had a chat re: the fact that he has started smoking 
again; relapsed when he was out socially; knows that that he has to go for total 
abstience [sic]. not even one puff; would like to go on champix again; worked well for 
him last time; will be working away in Scotland for 5 weeks very soon; arranged 
champix starter pack; made appt for 6/11; mood is good and he is keen to be quit 
again.
20 Nov 2012
Comment: Rang [Mr M] as agreed at last visit; he is doing well; no problems to report 
with champix; quit smoking today!; mood is good and he is happy to be quit; 
arranged to ring him in 2 weeks.
18 Dec 2013Comment: Saw [Mr M] today; unfortunately he relapsed while away with work in 
Scotland; feesl [sic] terrible about it and is very keen to get back on track; had long 
discussion about why this has happened; he feels that his social situation at work 
contributes to his temptation to smoke; is in the [occupation] and the culture isnt 
easy when trying to quit smoking; discussed ways to deal with this, e.g. having a 
strategy for when he goes out; he would like to re-start champix asap as he doesnt 
want to lose momemtum [sic]; hasnt taken the tablets for 11 days; as he has been 
off the tablets for that long, decided that would start him on the champix starter pack 
again; arranged starter pack presc; made appt for 8/1; CO=17ppm.
The above shows Mr M relapsed in his attempts to quit smoking between five and seven 
months before taking out cover. And that, after speaking with his GP, he was prescribed 
champix on both occasions to help him quit. I think its reasonable to have expected Mr M to 
have recalled these relapses when completing the applications. Particularly as he was given 
medication to help him stop smoking and that he had a long discussion about why the 
relapse(s) happened. I also dont think Mr M needed his medical history available to him at 
the time of application to avoid this misrepresentation occurring. Given his clear efforts to 
stop smoking and that he felt terrible about relapsing, I think this  along with the champix 
medication and conversations with his GP  wouldve been sufficiently memorable to him. It 
follows that I think he ought to have known that he had smoked in the 12 months prior to 
applying for cover.
Mr M was given three options to answer the question. Legal and General defined regularly 
as someone who smoked cigarettes weekly or more often. I think its fair to say this answer 
didnt apply to Mr M. The other options available were occasionally and none at all. While I 
understand Mr M may not have considered himself to be a smoker when he applied, I dont 
think it can be fairly said that he hadnt smoked at all. So, although occasionally may not 
have been defined by Legal and General, the nature of the question required a yes or no 
response. And Mr M ought to have known hed smoked. Because of this, I think he 
misrepresented his smoking history by saying he hadnt smoked at all during the previous 12 
months. I therefore dont think Mr M took reasonable care when answering this question. 
Legal and General has provided evidence to show that, had Mr M disclosed hed smoked in 
the last 12 months, they wouldve offered cover but at a higher premium cost. Policy A 
wouldve cost £30.46 and policy B wouldve cost £31.82 per month. This means Im satisfied 
Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.  
Legal and General has said Mr Ms misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
B argues that its disproportionate and inappropriate to classify the misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless. And they say Legal and General has failed to provide any evidence or 
an acceptable explanation to support their position. Furthermore, B feels this classification 
goes against the relevant law and regulation  with particular reference made to the ABI 
Code of Practice: Managing Claims for Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products (the Code) that says:
7.1 The overall principle is that the severe remedy of avoiding a policy from the 
outset should be confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation.
Ive carefully considered everything B has said. And, as Ive explained, the relevant law in 
this case is CIDRA. This says:
(2)  A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it 
was untrue or misleading, and(b) knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was 
relevant to the insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to 
the insurer.
Ive already established that I consider Mr M ought to have known that hed smoked in the 
12 months prior to applying. It therefore follows that I think Mr M knew that his answer of 
none at all was untrue. I also consider the question was very clear and specific in asking 
Mr M about his smoking history in the last 12 months. So, it wasnt an open or vague 
question. I believe its commonly known that smoking is bad for a persons health  hence 
why Mr M quit smoking. And so, I think Mr M should likewise have known that the cigarettes 
he smoked between October and December 2013 was information relevant to Legal and 
General. 
Because of this, I think Legal and Generals decision to classify Mr Ms qualifying 
misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless was reasonable. And, importantly, in line with 
CIDRA  the relevant law.
B has rightly pointed out that the Code says, that the severe remedy of avoiding a policy 
from the outset should be confined to the most serious cases of misrepresentation. And, 
under 7.3 of the Code, it says this category (deliberate or reckless) does not apply where:
7.3.1 Having investigated the matter, the customer has a credible explanation 
supported by the facts for the misrepresentation having occurred and/or there 
are other credible mitigating circumstances. 
7.3.2 The degree of relevance associated with the misrepresentation is relatively 
low and, in cases where a premium rating would have applied, the underlying 
risk premium rating resulting from that misrepresentation would not have 
been more than +50% (or £1/mil) for the applicable life assured.
 
Firstly, Legal and General has shown that the premiums for Mr Ms policies wouldve been 
more than 50% more expensive had he disclosed hed smoked in the last 12 months. So, as 
per the Code, the degree of relevance associated with the misrepresentation isnt relatively 
low in this case.
I have however given careful consideration to 7.3.1 and whether this applies to Mr Ms 
circumstances. The explanation given for Mr Ms misrepresentation is that it was his genuine 
belief that he hadnt smoked for a period greater than 12 months. And that the question in 
dispute required an affirmative answer for occasional or regular smoking, neither of which 
applied to him. 
When considering whether this part for the Code applies, Ive also taken into account 7.4.4 
which says:
Lifestyle information  since lifestyle information is usually more familiar and 
easier for customers to understand, it follows that customers should give a 
particularly credible and convincing explanation for a clearly evidenced 
misrepresentation not to be classified as deliberate or reckless.
And so, for similar reasons that Ive already explained, Im not persuaded Mr M wouldnt 
have recalled his smoking relapses. This is because he was going to considerable effort to 
quit smoking and had detailed conversations with his GP about the relapse(s), as well as 
being prescribed medication (champix). I also dont think  given Im satisfied Mr M knew 
hed smoked  that it was reasonable for him to select none at all as his answer to the 
smoking question. I dont think that accurately described his smoking history in the 12-month period and so I think it wouldve been reasonable to have expected him to select 
occasionally instead. Furthermore, I think its also reasonable to consider two bouts of 
smoking within a 12-month period as occasional use. It wasnt a singular or isolated 
occurrence, so I disagree with B that this level of usage doesnt fit the description of an 
occasional smoker. 
B has referred to case examples that the Code provides where smoking hasnt been 
disclosed. Theyve questioned why Mr Ms circumstances are significantly more serious than 
case 14 - which involves an individual who was smoking at the time of her application - and 
where it suggests the misrepresentation should be treated as careless as opposed to 
deliberate or reckless. 
Ive given this careful thought. At this point however, I want to explain these examples only 
provide a guide for how the Code should be applied. And so, each alleged misrepresentation 
still needs to be considered by the insurer in light of its own specific circumstances. That 
said, there is a unique difference between Mr Ms misrepresentation and the case 14 
example. That being the individual in the case example recalls the adviser  who worked for 
the insurer  only asked if she was a smoker and not whether shed used any tobacco within 
the preceding 12 months as asked in the application. And so, in circumstances like this, it 
may be deemed reasonable to declare that youre not a smoker even if you have smoked 
tobacco in the past. In Mr Ms case however, that doesnt seem to apply here as there hasnt 
been any suggestion that he wasnt asked the question in full by the independent financial 
adviser at the time. So, Mr M was asked whether hed smoked any cigarettes within the last 
12 months and yet still selected none at all as his answer even though he wouldve known 
this to be untrue. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied Legal and General has acted fairly and reasonably  and in 
line with both CIDRA and the Code  by classifying Mr Ms qualifying misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless. Ive therefore looked at the actions Legal and General can take in 
accordance with CIDRA. 
At which point I should add that Im aware B has said Mr Ms historical smoking is unrelated 
to the claim. While that may be true  as I note Mr Ms treating consultant has said that the 
cancer is not lifestyle related or linked to smoking - there is no requirement under CIDRA for 
the misrepresented facts to relate to the cause for claim. And, under CIDRA - and in cases 
of a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation - an insurer can avoid the policy, 
refuse the claim (as the policy effectively never existed) and keep the premiums except 
where it would be unfair to the consumer to retain them. 
In light of this, Im therefore satisfied Legal and General was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policies 
in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policies never existed, 
Legal and General does not have to deal with his claim(s) following the terminal cancer 
diagnosis. CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, and so 
I think allowing Legal and General to rely on it to avoid Mr Ms policies produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint.
On a final note, Ive also considered the service issues Mr M experienced during the 
handling of his claim. I realise this wouldve been a very difficult time for him and his family. 
So, the delays in the claim outcome as well as the lack of updates from Legal and General 
wouldve been very frustrating. But, while this doesnt change what happened, I think £250 
compensation is a reasonable amount to recognise the trouble and upset Mr M experienced. 
I therefore wont be increasing this further. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman