DRN-4430502
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way Zurich Insurance Plc handled a medical expenses 
and curtailment claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs H are represented by Mr H1.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
In December 2022, Mr and Mrs H were on a cruise holiday. Unfortunately, Mrs H fell and 
suffered a broken femur. She was admitted to hospital for surgery. Mr H1 and another family 
member travelled abroad by car to drive Mrs H back to the UK. In mid-January 2023, Mr and 
Mrs H made a claim on the policy for the medical expenses theyd incurred; Mr H1s travel 
costs and the costs of cutting short their cruise.
Despite repeated contact and chase-ups from Mr and Mrs H  and ultimately, from Mr H1, it 
took Zurich until July 2022 to fully settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim. Zurich paid Mr and Mrs H a 
total settlement of £14,053.63. It acknowledged that there had been unreasonable delays in 
its settlement of the claim and it offered Mr and Mrs H total compensation of £750 to 
represent the trouble and upset its handling of the claim had caused them. It also offered to 
pay them a further award of £375 to represent 8% simple interest on the settlement amount 
to represent the time theyd been without the money.
Mr and Mrs H didnt think Zurichs compensation offer sufficiently reflected the distress and 
inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused them. So Mr H1 asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator thought Zurich had made a fair offer of compensation. While he 
acknowledged that Zurich hadnt handled the claim promptly, he thought the compensation it 
had offered Mr and Mrs H was reasonable. And he thought the interest award it had offered 
reflected the period Mr and Mrs H had been without the settlement amount.
Mr H1 disagreed on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf. He said he felt Zurichs actions had been 
diabolical and bordered on criminal. He felt the interest award only covered lost interest, not 
the opportunity cost of being without the settlement amount for several months. This had 
meant Mr and Mrs H had experienced financial difficulty and had had to borrow money. Mr 
H1 also said that Mr H had been undergoing cardiac surgery at the time and had ended up 
in hospital several times with a very high heart rate  which he felt was due to the money 
worries caused by Zurich. So he felt that the minimum appropriate compensation Zurich 
should pay Mr and Mrs H was £1500.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I think Zurich has already made 
a fair offer of compensation and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. In 
this case, Zurich accepts that it didnt meet its regulatory obligations to handle Mr and Mrs 
Hs claim promptly or fairly. While I wouldnt generally consider it unusual for an insurer to 
take a few weeks to assess and settle a claim  in this case, Zurich received the claim 
documents in mid-January 2023, but didnt fully settle the claim until July 2023. Its clear, 
both from Mr and Mrs Hs testimony and Zurichs notes that, during that period, Mr H 
contacted Zurich on a number of occasions to chase things up and was told that the claim 
was being reviewed. However, little to no progress seemed to be made. I dont doubt that 
the need to contact Zurich several times to ensure the claim moved along caused Mr and 
Mrs H unnecessary frustration and inconvenience.
Im conscious too that Mr and Mrs H had claimed for around £14,000. This is a significant 
amount of money and Mr H1 has told us that Mr and Mrs H were in financial difficulty while 
they were waiting for the settlement to be paid. Hes provided evidence to show that Mr and 
Mrs H had to borrow some money from him during this period. I appreciate that this situation 
is likely to have caused Mr and Mrs H worry and avoidable upset.
So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Zurich to offer to pay Mr and Mrs H 
compensation to reflect the delays in its handling of their claim. Ive first considered the 
interest award. In my view, the interest award of £375 (which Zurich calculated using an 
annual rate of 8% simple on the total settlement amount for a broadly four month period) is a 
fair amount to reflect the period Mr and Mrs H were unreasonably deprived of the settlement. 
I say that because, as Ive set out above, I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to settle a 
claim immediately  it will usually take a few weeks to assess and settle a claim. So I think 
its fair for Zurich to have concluded that it unreasonably delayed settling Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim by a broadly four month period. The interest award Zurich has offered is intended to 
compensate Mr and Mrs H for the time they were out of pocket and for the potential 
consequential losses which flowed from that period. 
It's clear Mr H1 feels strongly that £750 isnt enough to reflect the impact of Zurichs handling 
of the claim on Mr and Mrs H. Ive considered this very carefully. Having considered the 
available evidence and the circumstances of this complaint, I think that £750 is a fair, 
reasonable and proportionate award to recognise the impact of Zurichs service errors on Mr 
and Mrs H. It is a significant award of compensation and its in line with our online guidance, 
which our investigator has already shared with Mr H1. I appreciate Mr H1 feels the handling 
of the claim may have caused Mr Hs cardiac issues to worsen and that therefore, the 
compensation isnt sufficient. But I havent seen any persuasive medical evidence which 
shows, on balance, that Mr H wouldnt have needed hospital treatment, but for the delays in 
Zurichs settlement of this claim. Its open to Mr and Mrs H to obtain such evidence from Mr 
Hs cardiologist should they wish to do so and to provide it to Zurich for its review. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position because I appreciate theyve been 
through a difficult and worrying time. However, I find Zurich has already made a fair offer of 
compensation to reflect its poor handling of the claim, based on the evidence it has 
available. And so Im not directing it to pay anything more.  Zurich should now pay Mr and 
Mrs H the total award of £1125 its already offered them if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Zurich has already made a fair 
offer to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman