DRN-2118246
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) lent
to her irresponsibly. Miss K says she didnt have enough disposable income to repay the 
facility without having to borrow from SNC and other short-term lenders.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. SNC disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Ks complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part 
of this final decision
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss K approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in March 2016. This was a running credit
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net
amount of the customers choosing.
Miss K was initially given a facility with a £200 credit limit in March 2016. Her limit was
increased on a further four occasions with her last credit limit approved for £510 in August
2016. Miss K last used her facility in January 2017 and repaid it in full in August 2017.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ks complaint. He thought the checks SNC carried
out before granting this facility were proportionate. But he thought the way Miss K used her
facility showed it had become unsustainable over time  and this point was reached by the
time Miss K was given her third credit limit increase on 6 July 2016. At this point, our
adjudicator thought SNC shouldve stopped her from taking any further drawdowns.
SNC disagreed with our adjudicator and made a number of comments including:
Repayments are usually taken automatically when the bank balance increases,
minimising the interest charged. If the customer didn't want to use that money to
repay SafetyNet, they can draw down again. Repayments can also be made
manually whenever the customer chooses. Miss Ks usage of the product was as
expected.
The product works in much the same way as a credit card and, like a credit card, the
important factor is not the number of individual uses (in this case drawdowns) but
the outstanding balance, which never exceeded £673.20.
SNC doesnt think it would be treating its customers fairly to withdraw the facility.
SNC pointed towards the latest FCA guidance where credit card providers were, on
3rd February 2020, expressly warned against withdrawing credit that customers
might be reliant on.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im still intending to
uphold Miss Ks complaint, but I think there were different reasons as to why SNC ought to
have been aware that Miss K was having financial difficulties.
To begin with, Miss K seems to have accepted our adjudicators opinion that SNC wasnt
wrong to approve her running credit facility. I think the initial approval of her facility is no
longer in dispute, so I have no reason to reach a finding about this. Instead, Ill focus on the
point at which I think SNC ought to have been aware that Miss K was having financial
difficulties.
Whilst Im not looking at what happened when the facility was approved, that doesnt mean
I think SNC did everything it shouldve done. I do think it was wrong to have allowed Miss K
to continue drawing down on the account from 6 July 2016  which is the same point
identified by the adjudicator. Ill explain below how the way Miss K was using her facility
indicated she wasnt using it in an affordable or sustainable manner.
The relevant regulations in place at the time Miss K was given her Safety Net facility
Firstly, under the provisions outlined in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC (6.7.2) 
which is relevant guidance at the time, SNC had an obligation to:
monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there are signs
of actual or possible repayment difficulties
When Miss K was granted a £200 limit, I dont think it was unreasonable of SNC to have
believed that she would repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period of time,
which could result in monthly repayments of around £20. After all, this is what it was
expected, and the way this facility was designed. But if Miss K wasnt using the facility as
intended, this could indicate to SNC that she was having wider financial problems.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ks complaint from 6 July 2016. He explained that Miss Ks
bank statements showed she had started borrowing from short term lenders. These
transactions couldnt be seen on her statements when she initially applied for her facility, but
it seemed her circumstances had changed to the point where she was now having to rely on
other lenders. In addition to this, the way Miss K used her facility suggested she couldnt
sustainably meet the repayments without having to borrow again.
Whilst I agree with the point at which our adjudicator has said the facility had become
unsustainable, I think there was further information showing on Miss Ks bank statements
which suggested the repayments had become unsustainable.
In order to see whether I think it was fair allow Miss K to continue to drawdown, Ive
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of
those payments, and then when Miss K returned for further borrowing. Ive also considered
the information about Miss Ks circumstances which SNC was aware of before and duringthe borrowing relationship.
Having done this, I think there were signs quite early on that a pattern was emerging in the
way Miss K used her facility. I say this because, as soon as Miss K repaid the full
outstanding balance, she was generally coming back for further borrowing either on the
same day or within a day  drawing up to her available credit limit balance. This should have
put SNC on notice that Miss K may have been having difficulties meeting her repayments
because of how quickly she was needing to return to borrow again.
In addition to this, SNC was aware that Miss K was paid monthly. However, I can see SNC
were taking two repayments each month which it did in the three months leading up to 
Miss Ks third credit limit increase on 6 July 2016. Miss Ks loan agreement says, We will 
only ever take a repayment when your Bank Balance is higher than your SafetyNet Level. 
So, it seems that Miss Ks balance was enough for SNC to take a second payment in the 
calendar month even thought she was only paid monthly. The reasons for this was 
something which SNC should have looked into further with a view to seeing why two 
payments were triggered and more importantly, if Miss K could afford these repayments.
SNC had access to Miss Ks bank statements for a period of around three months prior to
her application as well as during the entire borrowing relationship. Miss Ks statements
initially showed she was regularly paying £775 each month which she has confirmed was for
her rent. In addition to this, I can see regular direct debits, TV subscriptions, costs for her car
as well as utility bills. Ive looked at her circumstances from payday to her next payday as I
think this gives a more accurate reflection of Miss Ks circumstances.
Whilst SNC calculated her disposable income to be around £635, my own calculations seem
to suggest that Miss Ks disposable income to be between £263 and £516 for January 2016
and February 2016 respectively. I note that Miss K was sometimes receiving and transferring
money between accounts which looked like friends and family. But this didnt seem to be
regular income, indeed based on the amounts it seems that Miss K was borrowing and then
repaying the money.
Looking at Miss Ks circumstances in the three months leading up to 6 July 20216, I think
SNC would have seen that Miss Ks circumstances had changed. I can see she had broadly
the same outgoings as before except she was regularly paying her council tax and media
payments. But I can see she was receiving unarranged overdraft usage charges and unpaid
transaction fees. Taking these now regular costs into consideration along with her other
regular outgoings, I think Miss K had a disposable income of around £126 - £193 in these
three months.
Ive also considered the reasons why Miss Ks overall bank balance triggered an extra
repayment each month. And I think its likely this was due to extra money being transferred
into her account. Whilst I can see that she was transferring some of the money back, the
total amount was small in comparison to the amounts being transferred into her account.
Subsequently we asked Miss K for further information about these transfers to and from her
account as well as the reasons why she was withdrawing a significant amount of cash each
month. She withdrew between £520 and £940 in April, May and June 2016.
Miss K told us she was regularly borrowing from her friends and family to make ends meet
and she withdrew cash to largely pay back debts she owed to people and for general living
expenses. Miss K also says she got into the habit of taking out large sums of cash so that if
money was debited from her account, she would still be able to live and/or pay towards
debts she owed.I dont find what Miss K told us implausible due to the amounts she received into her bank
account from her friends and family in comparison to what she transferred back to them, and
the amount of cash she was withdrawing each month. This leads me to think that Miss Ks
finances had now reached the point that she was needing to borrow each month from friends
and family in order to meet the repayments on her SNC facility.
But I also note that Miss K started borrowing from other short-term lenders during this time.
She borrowed £100 three days after her facility was approved with the repayment being
made on 13 May 2016. Within a few days of making her repayment, she requested a further
loan which was larger than she had previously borrowed. In addition to this, she borrowed
£300 from a payday lender on 6 June 2016. Although I cant see when this last loan was
repaid, it was likely she was due to repay it in full within the coming months. So, I dont think
Miss K had enough disposable income leftover to meet the repayments for her SNC facility.
In my view, Miss Ks account activity shouldve been enough for SNC to have proactively
contacted her to arrange smaller payments, as permitted by the agreement and in line with
what it would take for the facility to be cleared within a reasonable period, rather than
continue taking the full account balance on a regular basis. After all, I dont consider it fair,
reasonable or proportionate to argue that the facility was affordable because it could be
repaid within a reasonable period of time, when SNC mostly didnt collect payments on this
basis.
I acknowledge that SNC says its facility worked similarly to a credit card - the facility came
with a credit limit and a customer could drawdown available funds. But ultimately, SNCs
facility isnt a credit card and I dont think comparisons are helpful. SNCs responsibility was
to monitor for signs of financial difficulty, which I think had become apparent a few months
into the borrowing relationship. And once this had become known, SNC had a responsibility
to not continue allowing Miss K to unsustainably use a facility that was causing further
financial detriment.
Overall, I think SNC shouldve prevented Miss K making any further drawdowns after 6 July
2016 and so I think Miss K has lost out as a result of SNCs actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SNC and Miss K didnt raise any new points and both parties accepted the findings that were 
made in the provisional decision. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings I previously 
made. I therefore still think SNC shouldve stopped lending to Miss K from 6 July 2016 and 
Ive set out below what SNC needs to do to put things right. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss K, SNC should:
Refund any interest, fees or charges applied to the account relating to drawdowns
from 6 July 2016 until the facility was closed;
add 8% interest per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date
they were date to the date of settlement*
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file as a result of not
stopping the facility from 6 July 2016 until it closed.*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold Miss Ks 
complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman