DRN-4438491
The complaint
Mrs S complains Euroins AD unfairly declined the majority of her travel insurance claim. 
Euroins has been represented by agents for the claim and complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to the agents actions as being those of Euroins.
What happened
In August 2022 Mrs S passport was lost or stolen when she was due to board a return flight 
to the UK. It was a weekend so she had to wait a few days until she could get a replacement 
from the British Consulate. Mrs S claimed against her Euroins travel insurance policy for 
costs she incurred - including for a replacement flight, taxis, food and accommodation.    
However, Euroins initially declined the claim on the basis Mrs S had failed to meet a policy 
term requiring her to obtain a police report. After she objected it accepted the claim  but 
only agreed to cover the cost of a taxi to the Consulate. Mrs S wasnt happy with that so 
came to this service. To resolve her complaint she would like Euroins cover more expenses 
 including accommodation, food and flight costs. 
In September 2023 our Investigator recommended Euroins cover two nights accommodation 
 but not her food and medication expenses. Euroins agreed to that, but not the £100 
compensation the Investigator recommended it pay. As the complaint wasnt resolved it was 
passed to me to decide. 
Having considered the complaint, I wrote to both parties to explain I intend to require Euroins 
to reimburse Mrs S the cost of two additional taxi journeys. I said I felt the journeys had been 
taken in the process of obtaining a replacement passport  so the cost should be covered by 
the policy. I also said I intend to require Euroins to apply simple interest to the payment for 
those journeys and the accommodation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S policy covers her loss of travel documents - up to the policy limit of £500. The terms 
say she is covered for costs in obtaining a replacement passport or travel document to 
enable her to return to her home country following loss or theft. 
The terms state she isnt covered for the costs of the passport itself. They also state she isnt 
covered if she hasnt reported the loss or theft to local police and obtained a written report. It 
isnt clear if Euroins is still relying on this term to decline the claim. In any event I think it 
would be unfair to do so. 
Mrs S contacted the police despite Euroins indicating it wouldnt be necessary. The 
document she provided may not be considered a police report by Euroins. But Im satisfied 
she made reasonable efforts to inform the relevant authority. Im persuaded by her testimony 
that the loss or theft did happen. And I cant see that Euroins has suffered any detriment 
from Mrs S not providing a report it considers acceptable. 
Following the Investigators assessment, Euroins agreed to cover Mrs S accommodation 
costs. She had to spend two nights in a hotel waiting for the Consulate to open. Considering 
the circumstances, I agree that was a cost she incurred in obtaining the replacement 
passport. So Euroins will need to reimburse her the costs of the hotel accommodation  not 
the beverage or other costs shown on her hotel receipt. 
Im not going to require Euroins to cover her food and medication for the two days. She 
would likely have incurred similar costs had she returned home. So I dont consider them 
additional costs of obtaining her passport. 
Mrs S incurred three taxi fares  from the airport to the emergency hotel and to and from 
there to the Consulate. So far Euroins has only reimbursed the cost of the single trip to the 
Consulate. However, I consider the other two to be reasonable additional costs incurred by 
her in the process of obtaining a replacement passport. So it will need to reimburse her for 
the two remaining taxi journeys.  
Euroins refusal to cover her replacement flight or missed flight costs was fair and 
reasonable. Her policy doesnt cover missed departures or replacement flights in the 
circumstances she experienced. Neither does it cover the additional travel or 
accommodation costs of her family when they returned to the UK without her. They werent 
costs involved in obtaining a lost passport  or covered by any other section of the policy. 
So Euroins unfairly declined Mrs S claims for two taxi trips and two nights hotel 
accommodation. It will need to reimburse her the costs of those. The overall cost wont 
exceed the policy limit. 
As Mrs S has unfairly been without those funds because of Euroins failure to reimburse her 
costs it will need to add simple interest at 8%. This should be applied form the date she paid 
the costs in August 2022 to the date of settlement. 
Finally our Investigator felt Euroins should pay Mrs S £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.  I agree with that award. Euroins caused her inconvenience by first declining 
her claim unfairly. And then by failing to provide her with a fair settlement. Shes had the 
inconvenience of having to unnecessarily correspond with Euroins. £100 is a fair amount to 
recognise that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Euroins AD is required to: 
reimburse Mrs S the cost of the two further taxi journeys and two nights 
accommodation (simple interest at 8% is to be applied to these amounts from the 
date she paid for the items to the date of settlement*) and
pay her £100 compensation. 
*If Euroins AD considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S 
how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 Daniel Martin
Ombudsman