DRN-2369471
The complaint
Ms S complains about the cash amount offered by UK Insurance Limited (trading as Direct 
Line) in settlement of her claim for lost jewellery.
Its clear that some parts of Ms Ss claim were handled by agents on Direct Lines behalf, so 
for clarity, any references to Direct Line include its agents.
What happened
In January 2020 Ms S discovered that shed lost her wedding, engagement and eternity 
rings, so she rang Direct Line to make a claim on her home insurance. Ms S was asked to 
provide details and photographs of the rings - she did this straight away. 
In March Ms S contacted Direct Line for an update. They said the photographs of her rings 
hadnt been received, so she sent them again. Direct Line then informed her that her claim 
would need to be investigated - they arranged to contact her. When she didnt hear from 
them, Ms S made a complaint. Direct Line apologised for the way theyd handled things, 
stopped the investigation, and gave her £100 compensation.
A few days later, Direct Line told Ms S that her rings had been valued at £5,202. They said 
theyd send her a catalogue so she could choose replacement rings. Ms S said that she 
didnt want to choose from a catalogue, because these rings were of special significance and 
had been from the 1970s to 1980s. Direct Line said they would offer 50% less if she chose 
to receive a cash settlement - this came to £2,351 after deduction of the excess. Ms S was 
unhappy with this reduction in value, so Direct Line promised that someone would call her 
back to discuss it.
 
Ms S didnt hear anything, so she called Direct Line again on 22 May. She told them that she 
was happy with the valuation of her rings, but she wanted to know why 50% was deducted 
for a cash settlement, as this wasnt mentioned in her policy. Direct Line said that a 50% 
reduction would be applied to the cash settlement because this is the discount negotiated 
with their suppliers of replacement jewellery. As an alternative, they offered Ms S the full 
value in the form of a voucher, which she could use at well-known high street retailers. Ms S 
said she didnt want to accept the voucher, because she didnt feel comfortable going into 
shops whilst COVID19 restrictions were in place. 
In June, Direct Line sent Ms S a letter of response to her complaint. They said they wouldnt 
change the cash settlement shed been offered, because this was the amount it would have 
cost them to replace the rings through their suppliers. But Direct Line agreed that thered 
been delays in the handling of her claim, and Ms S had to chase for progress. They offered 
Ms S £100 compensation for this. 
Our investigator didnt think Direct Line had done anything wrong in the way they handled 
Ms Ss claim, because theyd followed their policy terms. She also noted that Direct Line had 
explained to Ms S that there was no time limit on choosing replacement items, and that 
theyd only reconsider their offer if she was unable to obtain like for like replacements from 
their supplier. The investigator thought the £100 offered by Direct Line was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the delay in handling her claim.
Ms S wasnt happy with the investigators view  she felt that she should receive the correct 
amount. She said that she was told that the 50% reduction was stated in her policy, which 
wasnt true. Ms S said nothing was mentioned about the percentage reduction  she felt that 
under these circumstances they could set any amount they wish. She said that shed had to 
make a lot of phone calls, often having to explain things over again, which caused her a lot 
of stress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Ms Ss policy in detail. Section 3 of the policy booklet sets out the cover provided 
for personal possessions - I can see that it covers accidental loss of jewellery. Part C of that 
section, entitled how we settle claims, says: 
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or 
repair using our own suppliers.
If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available, we will pay 
the full cost of the item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
I can see that Ms S feels very strongly that the percentage reduction should also have been 
set out in the policy booklet, and that it was wrong for Direct Line to tell her that it was. Ive 
considered this carefully. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets general principles that businesses such as 
Direct Line must follow. They should consider what information their customers need, and 
communicate it in a way thats fair, clear and not misleading. Ive seen evidence that Direct 
Line had arrangements with several suppliers, and that each one offered a different level of 
discount. Im satisfied that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Direct Lines policy booklet to 
detail the commercial arrangements with all their suppliers. So, Im not persuaded that Direct 
Line acted unfairly by relying on the clause, as set out in their policy booklet.
I can see Direct Line explained that they wouldnt be able to reconsider their offer unless Ms 
S provided evidence that she couldnt get like for like replacement rings through their 
suppliers. Ive seen no evidence to suggest the rings couldnt be replaced in that way. I also 
note that there was no time limit on using the voucher. Although I understand Ms Ss 
concerns about shopping for replacement rings during COVID19 restrictions, Im not 
persuaded that a cash settlement wouldve made this any easier. For these reasons, I dont 
find Direct Line to have treated Ms S unfairly.
Ive seen no evidence as to whether Direct Line misled Ms S about the explanations given in 
her policy booklet. On balance, I accept that this may have caused her to call them again. I 
can understand Ms Ss frustration at having to chase Direct Line for progress and 
explanations. The evidence Direct Line have provided shows there were delays in the 
handling of her claim. Ive seen that Direct Line gave Ms S £100 compensation in March as 
an apology for the way theyd handled things. And in June Direct Line acknowledged that 
they hadnt given Ms S the right level of service  they offered her a further £100 
compensation for the delay since March and the fact that shed had to chase progress. Im 
satisfied that a total of £200 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. My final decision
To settle the complaint, the business has already made an offer to pay a further £100 
compensation in addition to the £100 it has already paid Ms S. I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that UK Insurance Limited should pay a total of £200 to Ms S, if they 
havent done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman