DRN-3177453
The complaint
Miss H complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (FEICL) declined her claim 
on her tyre and alloy wheel damage motor insurance policy for damage to her cars alloy 
wheels. She wants her alloys repaired.
What happened
Miss H made a claim for damage to all four of her alloy wheels. But FEICL declined her 
claim because of a policy exclusion for damage reported after 30 days. It said there was 
evidence of corrosion which showed that the damage was older than 30 days. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought FEICL 
had fairly and reasonably declined the claim because of the policy exclusion. 
Miss H replied that shed reported the damage as soon as she had noticed it. She thought 
she was being penalised for not inspecting her car more regularly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the Investigator has already explained, our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
I can see that FEICL relied on the following policy exclusions to decline the claim:
Any Alloy Wheel or Tyre damage which is not reported within thirty (30) days of the Date 
of Loss.
Any damage to an Alloy Wheel showing evidence of rust or corrosion or any defect 
which is not deemed to be caused by Accidental or Malicious damage.
I think these are common exclusions in motor insurance policies, and I dont find them 
unusual or unreasonable, but they are significant, and I would expect them to be set out 
clearly in the policy wording. 
I can see that the exclusions are set out in the policys terms and conditions under What is 
not covered. From what I can see, the policys terms and conditions were made available to 
Miss H as she had made a successful earlier claim. And so I think they were clearly brought 
to Miss Hs attention and its fair and reasonable for FEICL to rely on the exclusions to 
decline a claim. 
FEICL inspected images of the alloy wheels and noted variations in colour indicating older 
and more recent damage. It told Miss H:
Corrosion is evident on each of the four declined alloy wheels, and we know corrosion 
builds up over a period of time, it is therefore clear the damage has not been reported within 
the policy time scales of 30 days. This is outlined in your policy document. In addition, 
corrosion is not covered by your policy.
I havent seen any engineering evidence to contradict FEICLs decision that the damage was 
older than 30 days. And I cant see that Miss H disagrees with this, just that she hadnt 
noticed it earlier. So I think FEICL reasonably and fairly relied on the policy exclusions to 
decline the claim.
I can see that Miss H also had concerns about how the policy was sold to her. But FEICL 
didnt sell her the policy. So Miss H would have to raise any concerns about mis-sale with 
the business that did sell her the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman