DRN-3082663
The complaint
Mrs O has complained about Covea Insurance plcs decision to decline a claim she made 
under her home insurance policy following an escape of water. 
Mrs O is being represented by her daughter Ms B in her complaint.
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs O made a claim to her insurer, Covea following an escape of water 
from their kitchen floor which the neighbour downstairs alerted them to. Covea instructed a 
loss adjuster (LA) to inspect the damage. 
The LA reported no water damage to the property  and so they said Covea declined the 
claim for damage caused by trace and access as it wasnt covered under the policy. 
Ms B says floor tiles were damaged when tracing and accessing the leak. She believes 
Cova has misinterpreted the policy terms and conditions when declining Mrs Os claim. And 
so Ms B wants Covea to meet the costs to repair the damage caused while tracing and 
accessing the leak. 
Our investigator didnt think Covea had acted unreasonably. Ms B didnt agree. And so the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has explained that the crux of her complaint to us is Coveas decision to decline her 
mothers claim. Ms B made other complaints to Covea about the poor service Mrs O 
received  and has complained about Coveas processing of data. Our investigator found 
that Covea had done enough to put things right for its poor service by paying Mrs O £150 
compensation. And  as Ms B understood  she explained that any complaint around the 
processing of personal data would be something Ms B would need to raise with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) on her mothers behalf. 
So the remaining issue which Ms B remains unhappy about is Coveas decision to decline 
the claim. She says the damage to the floor tiles should be covered. If Mr and Mrs O hadnt 
acted promptly by tracing and accessing the leak, the damage would have been much 
worse. She explained that her parents are elderly and her mother has paid for her insurance 
for a number of years in good faith. 
Ive looked at what Coveas policy says when a claim for an escape of water is made. It 
says:
We will pay for loss or damage to the building caused by the following:
Water or oil as a result of a burst, leaking or overflowing domestic water or heating 
installation, appliance or piping. This includes damage to any water installation 
caused by freezing or bursting.
We will also pay up to £5,000 in total for the costs we have agreed in advance for 
locating the source of the damage including the reinstatement of any wall, flooring or 
ceiling removed or damaged during the search.
So, in order for any claim to succeed, there needs to be evidence of loss or damage to the 
building caused by water as described above. However, the LA found no damage caused by 
water to the building when he attended. The floor had been lifted, and repairs carried out 
under trace and access, but there was no loss or damage from an escape of water. 
And so it follows that the second part of the wording  in relation to reinstatements costs  
doesnt apply. The floor tiles werent damage by the escape of water. 
Ms B doesnt agree. In response to the investigators findings, she wrote:
"Building" is quite clearly defined as including "fixtures and fittings". Those are in turn 
defined to explicitly include "floor and ceiling coverings (other than carpets)". The 
tiles, which were irreparably damaged, as a result of trace and access of the leak, on 
expert recommendation and further to prior discussion with the Claims Handler are 
clearly floor coverings..
I am very much of the opinion that this definition is unambiguous and extends to the 
damage to the tiled flooring, regardless of the position with the floorboards 
underneath this once it had been destroyed.
I dont disagree with Ms B that the floor tiles for the purposes of a valid claim would be 
included as floor coverings. But as Ive said, the reason for Coveas decision to decline the 
claim is because there is no evidence of damage caused by an escape of water. In response 
to the complaint, Covea explained that there has to be water damage to the buildings for it to 
cover the claim under the trace and access cover or escape of water. 
It seemed that although  as Ms B pointed out  some floorboards were damp, by the time 
the LA had visited they had dried out  and the water leaked downward into a neighbouring 
property below. Covea said if Ms B or Mrs O could provide photos showing water damage to 
the property before the flooring was repaired, it would review them.
So  taking everything into account  I think Coveas decision not to meet the claim was 
reasonable and in line with the policy. 
I understand Ms B will be disappointed. But this means Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman