DRN-2026641
The complaint
Mr V complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked his account and hasnt provided an 
explanation for its actions. Mr V believes the bank has treated him unfairly, and he wants 
compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered as a result of not being able to access 
his account. 
What happened
Mr V has an account with HSBC. In August 2019, HSBC blocked the account for about three 
weeks  meaning Mr V was unable to use it during that time. The bank wouldnt tell Mr V 
very much about what was happening  only that it was conducting a review to comply with 
its statutory requirements. 
When the bank had completed its review, it allowed Mr V access to his account again, but 
still wouldnt explain what if anything had prompted the review. 
Mr V complained about the lack of information and the block. He explained that because he 
couldnt access his account, he had to borrow money from family and friends. He says the 
whole experience caused him a great deal of stress, upset and anxiety. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Vs complaint.  He said HSBC had acted 
appropriately and in line with the relevant regulations  which allowed a review of the type 
carried out by HSBC but didnt require the bank to give reasons for doing so. Mr V 
disagreed. He says HSBC shouldnt be allowed to simply block customers accounts. He 
wants a proper explanation and felt the investigator simply sided with the bank. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr V feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from whats hes 
said to us and to HSBC. Whilst I appreciate Mr Vs frustration, its important to point out that 
the only thing in question here is whether HSBC has done what it should have done. And I 
think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ill deal with Mr Vs concern that the investigator has simply sided with the bank - with 
the implication being that HSBC is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do 
recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both 
parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what 
we have done in this complaint. 
Also, because this service provides an informal dispute-resolution service (we were 
established as an informal alternative to the civil courts) it is for us to determine how we 
assess and determine complaints. If Mr V does not agree with our view, he does not have to 
accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision, he will be free to continue to pursue his complaint by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how 
to go about doing that.
I then turn to the banks decision to block Mr Vs account. All banks in the UK are strictly 
regulated and must take certain action in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. 
Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. 
That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers accounts. HSBC has said that Mr 
Vs access to his account was blocked to meet these requirements.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied first of all that HSBC was within its rights to 
review Mr Vs account and that it was entitled to block it while it carried out that review. 
HSBC also werent obliged to tell Mr V why it restricted and reviewed his account  as much 
as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. I note that 
on 14 August 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr V to explain it had blocked his account to comply with 
its statutory obligations. So, I think its likely he had some understanding of why the bank 
had blocked his account. 
Its clear from what Mr V has told us that not being able to access his account for nearly 
three weeks made everyday life quite difficult for Mr V. So, I can understand why Mr V found 
this experience with HSBC stressful and upsetting.  But as Ive explained, banks have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that when HSBC blocked Mr Vs account it was complying with these 
obligations. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr V trouble and upset, I cant say HSBC treated 
him unfairly. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr V when HSBC blocked his account. 
So, I realise Mr V will be disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be appropriate to make 
an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe HSBC acted inappropriately. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman