DRN-4084146
The complaint
Ms G complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) unfairly reduced her interest
returns on her crowdfunding investments and delayed returning her money to her following
withdrawal requests.
What happened
RateSetter is a peer-to-peer crowdfunding platform which was acquired by TP in September
2020. However, for ease, I shall refer to both parties separately throughout this decision.
RateSetter provided several types of investment accounts in which investors could lend
money to third party individuals and/or businesses in return for interest. While each of these
accounts had a set Going Rate - a market interest rate determined by RateSetter -
investors could also decide to set their own target interest rates. The actual interest earned
was based upon the loan contracts contained within an investors account.
RateSetter operated a contingency fund called the Provision Fund. The Provision Fund
was used to automatically reimburse investors their outstanding capital and interest in the
event this wasnt paid by a borrower. This in effect mutualised risk for all investors by
diversifying their exposure across the entire loan portfolio. Although payments from the
Provision Fund werent guaranteed, payments would be made provided there were sufficient
funds available in it.
The adequacy of the Provision Fund was expressed by the Interest Coverage Ratio -
calculated by dividing the size of the Provision Fund by the Expected Future Losses (the
total amount of missed and unrecovered borrower repayments expected over the lifetime of
active loans). RateSetter also published a Capital Coverage Ratio - calculated by adding
the size of the Provision Fund and all the future interest from active loans and then dividing
by the Expected Future Losses.
Historically, the Provision Fund was funded through borrowers as part of their loan fees and
not by investors. But RateSetter says that, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it
saw a decrease in new lending and in turn, a decrease in borrower fees going into the
Provision Fund. RateSetter has told us that in April 2020 the Interest Coverage Ratio had
dropped below 74% and in May 2020, in response to this, it introduced a Stabilisation
Period  a 50% reduction to the interest rate investors received on their investments.
RateSetter says that was introduced to replenish the Provision Fund. It also says the Capital
Coverage Ratio was around 154% at the time and so a capital rate reduction wasnt
necessary. RateSetter says this was all implemented in line with the terms of the investment.
TP acquired RateSetter in September 2020, but the entire loan portfolio remained with
RateSetter. RateSetter has explained that the Interest Coverage Ratio had returned above
100% by December 2020 and the Stabilisation Period ended in January 2021. In February
2021 RateSetter announced that TP was acquiring the entire loan portfolio which then
completed in April 2021. As a result, investors received their capital back, plus any interest
due.
Ms G requested to make withdrawals from her investments in March 2020 and later
complained to RateSetter as she was unhappy with the time it was taking to complete these
withdrawals.
RateSetter considered Ms Gs complaint but didnt uphold it as it said Ms Gs withdrawal
requests were in a queue to be released which was subject to the liquidity in the market at
the time  as per the terms of the investment.
Ms G remained unhappy with RateSetters response and so she referred his complaint to
this Service for an independent review. Since referring her complaint, Ms G raised further
complaint points which the investigator shared with RateSetter. These included:
RateSetter unfairly reducing her interest rate by half.
RateSetter unfairly charging her an early withdrawal fee.
RateSetter unfairly reinvested some of her money despite her wanting to withdraw 
completely from the platform.
An investigator at this Service looked into Ms Gs concerns and originally upheld the
complaint but later revised her view based upon new information provided by RateSetter. In
summary, she said:
She felt RateSetter had made it clear to Ms G in its Investor Terms that her ability to 
withdraw was dependent on there being liquidity in the market.
There was clearly an imbalance in supply and demand caused by the reaction to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, with reduced demand on the secondary market. So, she didnt 
think it was unreasonable that it took longer than normal for RateSetter to process 
Ms Gs withdrawal requests.
She didnt think it was unreasonable for RateSetter to charge an early withdrawal fee 
as the terms were clear that one would apply.
Auto-reinvesting during a period of low demand, like during the Covid-19 pandemic, 
meant Ms Gs money was effectively trapped on the platform. She felt Ms G had 
given a clear instruction that she didnt want to continue investing on the platform and 
by leaving auto-reinvest on RateSetter unfairly prevented her from ending her 
contract. So she felt Ms G should be compensated for this.
She was satisfied that RateSetters Investor Terms gave it a broad discretion to 
introduce the Stabilisation Period.
She was persuaded that RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period 
was fair, and consistent with maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate above 100% to 
ensure continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio.
RateSetter had accepted that it delayed providing all available evidence for the 
complaint and had it not done so, she wouldnt have reached the same outcome as 
she did in her initial opinion. She said RateSetter had offered £250 in recognition for 
the unnecessary delay caused and any distress and inconvenience caused by this, 
which she felt was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms G accepted the investigators findings but RateSetter didnt agree with her findings
regarding the auto-reinvestment issue. In summary, RateSetter said the auto re-investment
element meant that, until funds were released, Ms G continued to earn interest, and the
loans continued to follow her reinvestment settings and were re-invested at the original
rate to the original borrower.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter in April 2023. I include this below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyWhen considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ive taken into account
the relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms, such as RateSetter, are required to
follow. These are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles
for Business (PRIN) are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under
the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G) The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
RateSetter was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligation here is:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
Withdrawal delays, fees and auto-reinvestment
I appreciate that Ms G is unhappy with the amount of time it took for RateSetter to complete
her withdrawal requests. However, having reviewed the information provided to her at the
time of investing on the platform, Im satisfied RateSetter made her aware that her ability to
withdraw from the investment was dependent on liquidity of the market she was invested in.
Some platforms (including RateSetter) have put in place secondary markets that allow
investors to sell their loan parts to other investors in order to withdraw funds. There is no
regulatory requirement on platforms to have this facility available. And it follows that there
are no rules dictating how these secondary markets should be run. Ultimately, how
RateSetter decided to process withdrawal requests was a commercial decision which its
entitled to make. This isnt something this service can change. Instead Ive looked at whether
Ms G has been treated unfairly as a result of that decision.
RateSetters Investor Terms explained:
8.3. If your funds have already been matched to a loan contract, you can only
withdraw them using the Release Investment function detailed below.
9. The Release Investment function
9.1. Once your funds are matched and a loan contract is formed, you may be able to
withdraw matched funds before they are repaid by the borrower by using the
Release Investment function, but this will only be possible where there are sufficient
funds available in the market. We may temporarily suspend your ability to use this
function in order to manage supply and demand on the platform.
Taking into account the above terms, I think RateSetter made Ms G aware that withdrawing
would only be possible where there were sufficient funds available in the market. RateSetter
has explained it received a larger number of requests to release funds during the onset of
the Covid-19 pandemic which, in turn reduced liquidity and increased queue times. Im also
aware that RateSetter did provide updates regarding withdrawal wait times on its website to
manage investors expectations.
Im also satisfied that the Investor Terms made Ms G aware that a fee would apply when she
used the Release Investment function to withdraw from the platform:9.3. If youre using the Release Investment function, the amount returned to you will
equal the capital amount requested plus interest earned on that amount to the date
your funds are released, minus a Release Fee.
I also understand that Ms G feels RateSetter shouldnt have continued to re-invest her
money once she had requested to fully withdraw from the platform. Ive thought very
carefully about this and on balance, I dont think RateSetter has acted unfairly.
RateSetter has explained that auto-reinvestment was a key feature of the investment
product, designed to re-invest continuously and carry on with existing loan contracts. The
Investor Terms explained how this would work:
7.3. Capital and interest will (subject to the amounts received reaching the minimum
offer amount of £10) be automatically reinvested into the same product in which you
initially invested, either at the Going Rate or at Your Rate.
So Im satisfied that RateSetter made Ms G aware in the Investor Terms that her money
would continue to be re-invested until she could fully withdraw. As Ive explained above, the
only way Ms G could access her funds was by requesting a release of her investment, which
was subject to liquidity. And as there was lower liquidity in the market and insufficient
number of investors willing to invest when she requested to withdraw, it took longer for the
withdrawal requests to take place and her money continued to be reinvested.
I appreciate that, by reinvesting Ms Gs money, it took longer for her to fully withdraw her
funds. Whilst I think it could be argued that RateSetter ought to have turned off auto-
reinvestment, considering it was aware of the increase in demand to withdraw during the
Covid-19 pandemic, even if RateSetter had done so Im not persuaded Ms G would have
been in a better financial position. I say this as she continued to receive interest during this
period and had her money not been reinvested, she would have still had to wait some time
for her original withdrawal requests to complete. So shes essentially benefitted from interest
she wouldnt have been entitled to had RateSetter not continued to reinvest her money. Its
also not clear whether Ms G would have been able to make a greater investment return had 
she invested her money elsewhere. As Ms G would have had to have waited until all her
investments had been released, I think its reasonable to suggest she wouldnt have received
all her money back in one lump so and so its difficult to say what she would have done each
time she received some of her money back.
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that RateSetter didnt unfairly delay Ms
Gs withdrawal requests, it was able to charge Ms G an early withdrawal fee and it didnt
treat Ms G unfairly by reinvesting her money.
Fairness of the implementation of the Stabilisation Period
RateSetter has relied upon the following term which was in its Investor Terms to introduce
the Stabilisation Period:
19.1. If at any time, RateSetter reasonably believes the Provision Fund does not
have sufficient funds (including expected future inflows) to cover current or expected
borrower defaults, RateSetter may implement a Stabilisation Period.
While I think the term gave RateSetter a broad discretion to introduce the Stabilisation
Period, I must also consider whether in doing so RateSetter treated Ms G fairly and acted
with her best interests in mind.RateSetter has explained that that prior to April 2020, the Interest Coverage Ratio was and
had only ever been above 100% and that the objective  as disclosed to investors  was to
maintain it to this level. The Provision Fund Policy on RateSetters website explained:
Future economic uncertainty is currently not factored into the Expected Future Loss
calculation but this is taken into account by managing the Interest Coverage Ratio to
a figure greater than 100%.
Its also clear that the Provision Fund was a vital mechanism in ensuring mutualisation of risk
across the loan portfolio. And if this was not sufficiently maintained, investors would likely be
exposed to risk beyond that which theyd accepted when agreeing to invest on a platform
that mutualised risk across the whole loan portfolio. The Provision Fund policy explained:
The Provision Fund exists to protect RateSetter investors. It protects all investors
equally and so has the effect of mutualising the risk for all investors by diversifying
their exposure across the whole loan portfolio. This means that it is the performance
of the whole loan portfolio that matters for RateSetter investors.
RateSetter has also explained that expected future losses were estimated each month-end
by RateSetter's Executive Credit Committee, based on historic losses in the portfolio as well
as independent macroeconomic forecasts produced by Oxford Economics. And that the
impact of Covid-19 in March 2020 caused a sharp spike in expected future losses which,
when tested at month end April 2020, caused the Interest Coverage Ratio to drop to 74%. It
was this level of drop in the Interest Coverage Ratio which RateSetter says meant it was
necessary to implement the Stabilisation Period  ensuring investors were protected equally
and that their risk was fully mutualised.
Understandably, there was a lot of uncertainty during the Covid-19 pandemic, and I think it
would be unfair to scrutinise a firms decision taken during this time where its clear it has
taken precautionary steps having relied upon independent forecasts. Its also apparent from
the information provided that RateSetter had lengthy discussions regarding what was the
best action to take in these circumstances.
So, on balance, Im persuaded RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period
was fair, as it was consistent with the objective of maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate
above 100% - ensuring continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio - and
allowing investors to continue to benefit from protection whilst still receiving interest (albeit
less than expected) during a period of economic uncertainty. Im also are satisfied the
Provision Fund shortfall estimates were reasonably assessed, as RateSetter considered
relevant factors from independent sources. Its also important to consider these decisions
were made in unprecedented circumstances and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to
consider these with the benefit of hindsight.
RateSetters delay in providing a full response
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Ms G by its
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint. Whilst I've not found a failing in
terms of introducing the stabilisation period, the sale to TP or the delay in withdrawing, I
think this offer fairly reflects the distress or inconvenience caused to her by not providing this
information at the earliest opportunity.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional findings and neither provided any further comments for 
me to consider.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional findings, theres no reason to change them.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Retail Money Market Ltd to pay Ms 
G £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman