DRN-3990694
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) declined a claim on 
their home insurance for damage to their roof during a storm.
Both Mr and Mrs T are named policyholders on their Churchill policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr T, Ill refer mainly to Mr T from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had a Churchill home insurance policy. In February 2022, during storm Eunice, 
several ridge tiles were dislodged from their roof. These falling tiles caused some minor 
damage to two other tiles. Mr T contacted Churchill to make a claim on their insurance. 
Churchills surveyor inspected the damage in April 2022. The surveyor said there was no 
evidence of storm damage. He found that nine hip tiles had de-bonded from the bedding 
cement and had broken two interlocking tiles. The surveyor concluded: The breakdown of 
the tile and bedding cement bond has allowed the wind to lift the tile [sic] away from the roof; 
not storm. 
Based on its surveyors report, Churchill declined the claim. It told Mr T the damage to the 
ridge tiles was caused by wear and tear rather than the storm. Churchill said this meant the 
damage wasnt covered by his policy.
Mr T was unhappy with this. He said his roof was in good condition. Hed had some repairs 
done to the roof in November 2021 and he sent us photos of these repairs. He wants 
Churchill to refund the cost of repairs. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He reviewed 
Churchills surveyors report and was satisfied by its conclusion that the damage was due to 
wear and tear rather than the storm. He agreed with Churchill that this wasnt covered by Mr 
Ts policy, so he didnt think it was unreasonable for Churchill to decline the claim.
Mr T disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 February 2023. I said:
Like most polices, Mr Ts cover only makes Churchill liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in his 
policy. 
Section 1 of Mr Ts policy booklet shows hes covered for loss or damage caused by a storm. 
The policy booklet doesnt define a storm but that isnt an issue in this case.  
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
First, Churchill accepts there was a storm. Local weather records for the area where Mr T 
lives show wind speeds of up to 69mph on 18 February 2022. The Met Offices information 
for the 2021/22 storm season shows that this was storm Eunice, which hit the UK that day. 
Second, I think most people would accept that a storm could cause roof tiles to be blown off. 
I also note local news reports showing significant damage to roofs, walls, and fences in Mr 
Ts hometown, as well as the collapse of a large chimney at a nearby industrial building. So 
Im satisfied that the damage to Mr Ts roof is consistent with storm damage.
That means the last question is key: were the storm conditions the main cause of the 
damage? 
Mr T has made several points about why he believes Churchills decision was unfair. Ive 
looked at everything hes said but I dont think I need to comment on each point to reach the 
right outcome. Ive focused instead on what I think are the key issues. In summary:
He accepts that the roof tiles showed signs of wear and tear. However, he doesnt 
accept that theyd come away from the cement.
He had work done on his roof in November 2021. This work included checking all 
the ridge tiles to ensure they were secure and, where they were not, effect repairs.
He sent us photos showing repairs to the ridge tiles.
He believes this shows he was taking appropriate steps to ensure his roof was 
sound.
Ive reviewed the photos and the surveyors report. I dont disagree that the mortar looks old. 
Mr T also accepts this. However, thats very different from the mortar being degraded to the 
extent that tiles were coming away from it. Its apparent that tiles attached to similarly aged 
areas of mortar had withstood storm Eunice. And all the roof tiles had withstood three other 
named storms in January and February 2022.
Mr T told us hed had repairs to the roof done just three months before storm Eunice. I can 
see evidence of these repairs in the photos Mr T provided. Churchills surveyor commented 
on them in his report. I dont think its realistic to think Mr Ts builder would have made some 
repairs to the roof but ignored tiles that had debonded from the cement or showed other 
signs of deterioration. I think its worth noting that Churchills surveyor inspected the roof 
from ground level using a camera and zoom lens. While thats fine, it means he didnt closely 
examine the tiles and mortar. I think its reasonable to assume Mr Ts builder did. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr T had taken reasonable steps to make sure his 
roof was well maintained. Given the circumstances, I dont think it was fair for Churchill to 
rely on the wear and tear exclusion in his policy to decline his claim. It follows that I intend to 
uphold the complaint.
Mr T paid for a builder to repair his roof in June 2022. Mr T has sent us an invoice showing 
this cost £480. I think Churchill should refund this, plus interest. 
Finally, Churchill acknowledged that Mr T had experienced avoidable delays and 
inconvenience because of its surveyors poor communication and service. It gave him £150 to apologise for this. Mr T hasnt raised this with us but, for the avoidance of doubt, I think 
this was fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs T told us they had nothing to add.
Churchill didnt accept my provisional decision. It said:
The tiles were damaged in different areas of the roof. Churchill said it would expect to 
see more devastation in localised areas of the roof if the tiles were damaged by the 
storm.
Its surveyors photos were excellent.
My decision was based on assumption rather than fact.
Mr T sent us evidence that he hadnt given Churchill when it investigated his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Churchills arguments are valid. I dont think its localised damage argument 
makes sense  the damage was in a specific area of the roof but in any case I disagree with 
the general point  the quality of its surveyors photos isnt disputed, and Churchill has been 
able to consider the same evidence that I have.
The only assumption Ive made is that I think its very unlikely Mr Ts builder would have 
ignored tiles that had become debonded from cement when he was making repairs to the 
roof. I dont think this is an unreasonable assumption.
Churchill hasnt provided any new evidence or comments that make me think my provisional 
decision was unfair. I see no reason to change this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the same reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. I require UK Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) to:
Refund £480 to Mr and Mrs T for the cost of repairs following the storm damage to 
their roof.
Add interest to this amount at 8% per annum from the date Mr T paid his builder to 
the date of settlement.
If UK Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs T a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman