DRN-3504912
The complaint
Mr E complains esure Insurance Limited refused to cover all the repairs his car needed 
following an accident.
What happened
In early October 2020, Mr E found that his vehicle had been damaged when parked outside 
his home. The vehicle he believes caused the damage was still in contact with his car when 
he found it. Mr Es car wouldnt start, so he had it taken to his own mechanic.
Around three weeks later, Mr E contacted esure to make a claim for the damage to his car. 
esure arranged for his car to be collected for inspection, and this happened a couple of days 
later. 
When esures engineer inspected Mr Es car they found damage to the rear of it, and that the 
timing chain was broken. However, the engineer only believed the damage to the bumper 
and paint work was caused by the accident and felt the problem with the timing chain was 
due to wear and tear. Because of this, esure said Mr Es policy would only cover the damage 
to the rear of his car. Mr E disagreed the timing chain wasnt damaged in the accident, so 
esure arranged for the matter to be reviewed by their senior engineer. This didnt change the 
outcome, as the senior engineer also didnt think the timing chain broke when Mr Es car was 
hit. Mr E continued to disagree and didnt agree to esure repairing the rear of his car. So, 
esure told Mr E hed need to arrange for his car to be collected from their repairers  at his 
own expense. They also asked Mr E to provide them with an engineers report that explained 
the timing chain broke as a result of the accident. However, despite Mr E providing them with 
a report supporting his position, esure still maintained the timing chain wasnt covered under 
the policy  but they did agree to reimburse Mr E for the recovery costs when he removed 
his car from their repairers.
Mr E complained to esure about their decision. But after looking into his concerns, they 
maintained their decision remained the same. As Mr E remained unhappy, he came to our 
service. When doing do so he explained esure were picking and choosing which parts of his 
claim to settle and they hadnt provided the service he paid for with his premiums. He also 
told us he was without a car for around four months and missed five days of work as a result.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Es complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He explained 
he didnt think it was unreasonable for esure to rely on the opinions of their engineers before 
declining to cover the repairs to the timing chain. Our investigator also didnt think esure did 
anything wrong regarding the recovery costs or the time Mr E was without a car.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this isnt the outcome Mr E hoped 
for, but Ill explain my reasons below. As Mr Es complaint is made up of multiple points, Ill 
address each one in turn.
Was the damage to the timing chain covered?
Mr E is unhappy esure refused to cover the repair of his timing chain as part of his claim. He 
says he hasnt received the service he paid esure for; and doesnt believe they should be 
able to pick and choose which part of a claim theyll cover.
I appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr E when he realised his parked car had 
been damaged. And given the circumstances, its not unreasonable he wanted the damage 
covered by his insurance. However, I must first explain that insurance policies arent 
designed to cover every eventuality. Instead, they provide cover if the claim meets the 
criteria set out in the policy terms and conditions. Therefore, there may be occasions when a 
claim, or part of it, isnt covered by a policy. So, to reach a finding on this aspect of Mr Es 
complaint, I needed to consider whether his policy terms and conditions had been met.
Theres a section in Mr Es policy headed Damage to your car  Section 2. This says it 
covers all loss and damage to a policyholders car, and that esure will pay to repair the 
damage. So, I can understand why Mr E hoped the damage to his rear bumper and timing 
chain would be covered.
Having reviewed the evidence from both Mr E and esure, its apparent esure didnt cover the 
timing chain because they didnt consider the damage was caused by the accident. So, I first 
needed to identify whether theres an exclusion in Mr Es policy that allows esure to make 
such a decision. 
Under the section headed Exceptions which apply to Sections 2,3 and 4, it says:
What is not covered
x Any loss or damage not as a direct result of your accident or theft. 
This exclusion persuades me esure is only obligated to cover damage thats a direct result of 
the accident claimed for. But before any insurer makes such a decision, Id expect them to 
take and follow advice from an expert.
Ive seen a copy of the engineers report from esures repairer. In this, the engineer 
explained he didnt think the timing chain broke during the accident, rather its a common 
issue in cars of a similar age to Mr Es. When Mr E disputed what the engineer had said, 
esure arranged for the matter to be reviewed by their senior engineer. I consider this was the 
right thing to do in the circumstances.
The senior engineer also didnt consider the timing chain broke during the accident and gave 
the same reasons as the other engineer. So, I dont consider esure were wrong to place 
weight on the opinion of an expert when considering Mr Es claim.Im aware Mr E provided esure with a report from his own engineer, and this said it was 
possible the timing chain was damaged in the accident. However, he didnt go on to explain 
why he thought that might be the case. I appreciate Mr E says this supports his position, but 
I cant ignore the fact his engineer only indicated it was a possibility; and did so with little to 
no additional reasoning. Ive also noted Mr Es engineers report doesnt provide the details 
or qualifications of the person who wrote it. Without this information, there is nothing to show 
Mr Es engineer was better placed (in comparison to esures engineer and senior engineer) 
to determine the cause of damage to the timing chain. The limited information provided by 
Mr Es engineer persuades me esure didnt act unreasonably when they relied on the 
opinions of their own engineers over his.
As Im satisfied esure could rely on their engineers reports, I also agree they were entitled to 
decline repairs to the timing chain. As such, I dont consider esure did anything wrong when 
they told Mr E his policy only covered repairs to his bumper and paintwork.
Were the recovery costs from esures garage covered?
After esure confirmed they wouldnt cover the repairs to the timing chains, Mr E said he 
didnt want them to carry out any repairs to his car. As his car was immobile, he needed to 
arrange for it to be removed from esures repairers; and Mr E paid for this himself. However, 
following Mr Es complaint, esure offered to reimburse these costs. Despite esures offer, 
Mr E remains unhappy that he was ever asked to pay the recovery costs.
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions, and under the section headed Conditions 
which apply to Sections 2, 3 and 4 it says:
Removal and delivery
If your car isnt driveable after an incident covered by this policy, we will pay 
reasonable transport costs to take it to the nearest suitable repairer.
We will also pay the reasonable cost of returning your car to you at the address 
shown in your Schedule after its been repaired.
This means esure was only obligated to pay for recovery costs if they carried out repairs to 
Mr Es car. Given Mr E chose to have the repairs carried our elsewhere, it was his 
responsibility to pay for his car to be removed from esures repairers. Therefore, had esure 
not offered to reimburse Mr Es recovery costs, I wouldnt have asked them to. Mr E wasnt 
entitled to these costs given the decision he made. So, I dont agree he was treated unfairly 
or unreasonably when asked to pay for the recovery costs himself.
Mr E not having access to a vehicle
Mr E has complained that while esure was dealing with his claim, he was without a vehicle 
for around four months. He told us this caused him a great deal of inconvenience and worry 
which was compounded by his wife being heavily pregnant at the time. Dealing with an 
insurance claim comes with some level of inevitable inconvenience, and sometimes worry. 
But I am sorry to hear this happened at a very important time for his family. So, I can 
understand why his personal circumstances made a quick resolution of his claim even more 
essential.Having reviewed everything, I cant see anything that suggests esure had his vehicle for four 
months  or that they took four months to tell him the outcome of his claim. So, if Mr E was 
without his car for that period of time, I cant fairly say that was down to esure  particularly 
given I dont think it was unfair for them to say the timing chain wasnt covered under his 
policy.
Mr E has explained that after notifying esure of his claim, they offered him a courtesy car. 
But he turned this down. He said he did so because he didnt think the claim would take long 
to resolve  and in turn he would have is car working within a short period of time. However, 
when it became apparent his claim wasnt being considered in the way he hoped, he had to 
borrow a friends van.
Being without a car, especially when Mr Es wife was heavily pregnant, wouldnt have been 
ideal. However, esure did offer Mr E a courtesy car - and him turning it down, played a part 
in him being without a vehicle for a period of time. Having said that, we do expect consumers 
to mitigate their loss when something goes wrong. I was pleased to see Mr E did exactly that 
when he borrowed his friends van.
Mr E says he believes esure would have charged him for the courtesy car once he told them 
he no longer wanted them to deal with his claim. While Ive noted his point, I can only make 
a finding on what happened. As Mr E didnt accept a courtesy car, he also wasnt asked to 
pay for one, so that doesnt change my considerations on this part of his complaint. 
Evidence from Mr E and esure has persuaded me they both took steps to alleviate/attempt 
to alleviate his circumstances while his car was immobile. They both did what Id expect 
them to do in the circumstances, so I dont consider esure needs to do anything to put things 
right regarding this complaint point. 
For the reasons above, while I understand Mr E will be disappointed with the outcome, 
I dont consider esure treated him unfairly when he tried to make a claim under his policy
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint about esure Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman