DRN-2260057
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs W complain about QIC Europe Ltd and the decision to decline their insurance 
claim. They also complain about the advice they received around the time of the event.
 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr T and Mrs Ws property was damaged following a fire. So, Mr T and 
Mrs W contacted QIC to make a claim on their home insurance policy.
QIC arranged for the property to be inspected by a forensic engineer, who Ill refer to as B. 
They inspected the property in the week after the fire and produced a report which identified 
a wood burning stove and the lining of the attached ventilation system as the most likely 
cause of the fire.
But at this time, QIC wanted to make further enquiries about the policy Mr T and Mrs W held 
and in particular, whether the property was being used for business purposes. So, another 
report was compiled by an independent third party, who Ill refer to as R. They visited the 
property in December, and produced another report which supported the initial conclusions 
made by B. 
So, in January 2019, QIC declined Mr T and Mrs Ws claim. They thought the stove and the 
exposed lining in the loft was the most likely cause of the fire. And as Mr T had installed the 
stove and the lining without the required self-certification, and hadnt reported the work to the 
relevant Building Control Body (BCB), they thought the claim fell under the general 
exclusion relating to poor workmanship. Mr T and Mrs W were unhappy with this decision, so 
they raised a complaint.
They didnt think QICs decision to decline the claim was fair. They felt Mr T had installed the 
wood-burning stove correctly as it had been working correctly for several years. They didnt 
accept the stove and attached ventilation lining was definitively the cause, so wanted the 
claim to be accepted. And they also raised concerns about the advice QIC provided during 
the claim and the damage the property suffered during that time.
QIC didnt uphold the complaint. They thought their decision to exclude the claim was fair. 
And they didnt think theyd done anything wrong when investigating the cause of the fire to 
determine whether the claim was covered. So, they didnt offer anything more. Mr T and Mrs 
W remained unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought it was most 
likely the fire was caused due to the exposed lining in the loft. And because this lining and 
the stove had been installed by Mr T without the relevant self-certification, and without the 
required BCB approval, she thought QIC acted fairly when declining the claim. So, she didnt 
think QIC needed to do anything more.
Mr T and Mrs W didnt agree, and they asked for our investigator to consider the advice they 
were given on the first inspection. They felt they were told not to cover the damaged roof 
while the investigations were ongoing. And they thought because of this, additional damage 
was suffered to the property and its contents. So, they thought QIC should be held 
responsible for this.
But our investigator didnt agree. She explained QIC had reserved their rights as the insurer 
when investigating the claim, so werent in a position to provide Mr T and Mrs W with advice 
on what to do next. She felt this fell with the broker pursing the claim on their behalf. And she 
felt the terms of the policy explained Mr T and Mrs W had a duty to mitigate their losses and 
complete temporary repair work that would prevent further damage. And she also explained 
shed seen photos to show a cover had been placed on the roof when the R attended.
Because of this, she thought the water damage was most likely caused by the water used to 
control the fire at the property when the fire service attended. So, she didnt think she could 
fairly hold QIC responsible for this and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr T and Mrs W didnt agree again. They maintained their belief that QIC had acted unfairly 
declining the claim. And they maintained they were told not to cover the roof and that this 
had caused further damage. As Mr T and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
Im also aware since then, Mr T has been taken ill. But Mrs W has confirmed she wanted our 
service to continue with the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this situation has caused Mr T and Mrs W. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been upsetting and traumatic for them when they realised the extent of the damage 
caused by the fire. And I understand they took out a home insurance policy to help assist 
them in difficult situations such as this. So, when QIC declined the claim, I can understand 
the worry and distress this wouldve caused. Im aware the cost to repair the damage is 
significant, and that they would be left financial difficulty if the insurance claim is 
unsuccessful. And I want to reassure them Ive considered this at length when making my 
decision.
But I also need to be clear when explaining its not my role to re-underwrite Mr T and Mrs 
Ws claim. Its my role to decide whether QIC assessed and declined the claim fairly, against 
the evidence available to them. And that they acted in line with the terms of the policy when 
doing so. And in this instance, I think they have. 
Ive focused first on QICs decision to decline the claim. The general exclusion QIC have 
relied on to decline the claim states:
13. Poor workmanship
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials (including latent
defects) or poor design (a latent defect is a fault which exists but which only causes a 
problem at a later stage under certain conditions)Ive seen both reports and Ive looked at these in detail. The report from B explains that the 
lining of the ventilation needed to be insulated in order to comply with building regulations. 
And its not disputed by Mr T and Mrs W that this wasnt the case. Its also not in dispute that 
Mr T didnt have the relevant self-certification needed to complete the work without needing 
to gain approval from the BCB. So, I dont think the installation of the stove complied with the 
necessary regulations. But for QIC to rely on this to decline the claim, I also need to be 
satisfied this was the most likely cause of the fire.
Mr T and Mrs W dont think QIC were fair to do so as they dispute the fire was caused by the 
possible scenarios provided in the reports. The report compiled by B states The probable 
cause of the fire was ignition of contents stored in the loft by heat from the flue liner before 
going on to say it is possible that contents in the loft had toppled on to the liner shortly 
before the fire or that there was a soot fire in the liner on the night of the fire that resulted in 
much higher, albeit short lived, flue gas temperatures. 
The report by R also suggested there was the possibility the fire was caused due to a log 
burner that was not installed by a professional, registered to do the work before concluding 
that their recommendation was for the claim to be declined on the exclusion listed above.
So, QIC were provided with reports by two separate, independent third parties who both 
provided the same conclusions surrounding the cause of the fire. And Mr T and Mrs W were 
unable to provide any evidence or report that suggests these reports were incorrect. Looking 
at the photographs provided, the damage to the roof was significantly worse on the side of 
the roof where the ventilation lining passed through the loft. And there was a fire shortly after 
the stove was initially installed in the same area, which led Mr T to change the lining 
altogether. 
When all this is considered together, I think its most likely the stove installation was the 
cause of the fire, although I cant say for certain exactly which scenario occurred. And as the 
stove was installed without the necessary approval, by Mr T who didnt hold the relevant 
certifications, I think QIC have acted fairly when declining the claim on the exclusion they 
quoted. So, I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then considered Mr T and Mrs Ws comments around the additional damage they feel 
the contents of their property incurred after they were told not to cover the roof. Tts alleged 
this advice was provided in person, so there is no record of the actual conversation. But Ive 
considered Mr T and Mrs Ws testimony against that of QIC and the other information Mr T 
and Mrs W wouldve had available at the time.
QIC have denied this information was provided. Ive seen them explain that, at the time of 
this visit, they hadnt yet decided whether the claim could be considered. This was because 
there were concerns about the property use, and whether it had been used for business 
purposes. If they felt this was the case, the policy wouldnt have been valid. I think QIC were 
considering this at the time, as a second inspection and report was requested from R to 
validate this. 
And in this situation, I wouldnt expect an insurer such as QIC to provide advice to a 
customer, as it would suggest the claim was valid and prevent them from invalidating a 
policy if they felt it was necessary. So, without any record of the conversation, I dont think I 
have enough evidence to satisfy me this advice was purposefully or mistakenly provided.
And even if it was, I dont think it would lead me to say QIC were responsible for any 
additional damage that property may have incurred. This is because QIC notified Mr T and 
Mrs Ws broker aware in their acknowledgement of the claim that they reserved their rights 
as an insurer. I wouldve expected Mr T and Mrs W to be made aware at this stage of what this meant. And Id also expect them to be aware of the policy terms and their responsibilities 
within that. 
The terms of the policy explain the following Mr T and Mrs W must Take all steps that are 
necessary to reduce further loss, damage or injury before explaining that You may carry 
out any temporary repairs that are necessary to reduce any further loss or damage, but do 
not carry out any permanent repairs without first getting our written permission. So, I think 
Mr T and Mrs W had the ability to temporarily repair the roof to prevent any further damage 
caused by the weather. 
And I think they did do this. When R attending the property in December, they took several 
photos of the roof. And in these photos, the roof was covered with a plastic sheet to shelter 
the property from any adverse weather. I cant see any evidence to show QIC told Mr T and 
Mrs W to do this. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say any advice provided by QIC 
prevented Mr T and Mrs W from protecting their property from further damage, as they took 
this action anyway.
And finally, Ive seen no evidence to show that the property did incur any additional damage. 
The fire service had to attend Mr T and Mrs Ws property on three separate occasions to 
douse the fire in the roof. So, I think its reasonable to assume a large amount of water was 
used to do this during that time. And when B attended the property, Ive seen the ceilings 
had already collapsed and there was significant water damage. So, I dont think there is any 
evidence to show that the roof being uncovered for a period of time damaged the contents of 
the property any more than it had already been damaged when the fire service made 
attempts to put out the fire. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to say QIC 
have done anything wrong. So, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr T and Mrs W was hoping for. And I recognise this 
decision is being provided at a difficult time, considering Mr Ts current health. Im also 
aware of the financial consequences this decision will have on Mr T and Mrs W moving 
forward and I want to assure them its not one Ive taken lightly. But any decision I make 
must be both fair and impartial. And in this situation, I think QIC have acted fairly and in line 
with the terms of the policy Mr T and Mrs W held.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr T and Mrs Ws complaint about QIC 
Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman