DRN-4036412
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society
surrounding a current account switch.
What happened
Ms G wanted to instruct a full switch of her current account to Nationwide but instructed a
partial current account switch by mistake. Ms G realised her error and telephoned
Nationwide to request that the partial switch shed instructed be cancelled. Ms G was told
that the partial switch would be cancelled, but later found that Nationwide had opened a new
current account in her name and set up direct debits for her, but that her direct debits also
remained present in her existing current account, meaning that they were now set up on two
different accounts. Ms G wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Nationwide accepted that they hadnt cancelled the partial switch as they should have done,
and they apologised to Ms G for this and made a payment of £200 to her as compensation
for any trouble or upset she may have incurred. Ms G wasnt happy with Nationwides
response, especially as she was left to resolve the many direct debits that were now set up
on both accounts, and so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that Nationwide
had issued to Ms Gs complaint already represented a fair outcome. Ms G remained
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 March 2023 as follows:
Nationwide have accepted that they didnt cancel the partial switch as they should 
have done, and theyve apologised and paid compensation to Ms G for this.
However, given that Nationwide have accepted their error here, I dont feel that 
theyve done enough to resolve this situation as I feel they fairly and reasonably 
should have done.
Specifically, given that Nationwide accept that the partial transfer should have been
cancelled, I feel that Nationwide should have taken the steps necessary to put Ms G 
into the position she should have been in had the partial switch request been 
cancelled as requested. This includes that Nationwide should have confirmed with 
Ms G that all direct debits remained in place in her original current account before 
then cancelling all direct debits in the new Nationwide account and then closing that 
account.
But Nationwide didnt do this, and instead they left it to Ms G to unpick the situation 
which arose because Nationwide didnt cancel the partial switch as they should have. 
This doesnt feel to fair to me. And given the impact of these events on Ms G, as 
shes described them to this service, I dont feel that the £200 compensation that 
Nationwide have paid to Ms G provides fair compensation for the ongoing trouble 
and upset that this matter has caused.
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Ms Gs 
favour and instructing Nationwide to contact Ms G, as Ive described above, to 
confirm that all direct debits remain present in her old account before closing the new 
Nationwide account that should never have been opened. And if there are any direct 
debits that are no longer present in the old account, Nationwide should liaise with Ms 
G and the bank who holds that account to ensure that the direct debits are returned 
to that account. In short, Nationwide should do all they can to help Ms G correct what 
has happened here.
Additionally, Ill also be instructing Nationwide to pay Ms G a further £150 
compensation  so that the total compensation amount is £350  which I feel 
provides a fairer level of compensation to Ms G for the inconvenience and distress 
that this matter has caused her.
Finally, Ms G has stated that she feels Nationwide have committed a data breach by 
setting up the new account and the direct debits, after she instructed them to cancel 
the partial switch. But it isnt within my remit here to declare that a data breach has or 
hasnt occurred. Instead, that would be a matter for the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) to decide upon  given that theyre the relevant regulatory body in this 
regard  and so I can only refer Ms G to the ICO if she still wishes to pursue this 
aspect of her complaint.
Ms G welcomed my provisional decision, including that Nationwide would be instructed to 
contact her to ensure that the wrongly opened Nationwide account would be closed and that 
any potential issues regarding direct debits would be resolved.
Ms G also explained that she believed the £200 paid to her by Nationwide wasnt 
compensation but was the promotional amount that she should and would have received 
having completed the current account switch. 
But Ms G never completed the current account switch  which I feel is evident from the 
circumstances of this complaint  and so I dont feel that she was eligible to receive the 
promotional £200 to which she refers. Additionally, Nationwide have always referred to this 
amount as compensation. And so, Im satisfied that the £200 paid to her by Nationwide is a 
compensation amount.
Ms G also reiterated that she would like her complaint about a potential data breach to be 
considered here. But as explained, this service isnt a regulatory body which means it isnt 
within my remit to declare whether a data breach has or hasnt occurred. I can only repeat to 
Ms G my referring her to the ICO if she wishes to pursue this aspect of her complaint further.
Nationwide also responded to my provisional decision and didnt raise any objections to it. 
As such, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Ms Gs favour on the basis 
explained in my provisional decision. And I confirm that I do uphold this complaint on that 
basis accordingly.Putting things right
Nationwide must contact Ms G to confirm that all direct debits remain present in her 
originating account before closing the new Nationwide account that should never have been 
opened. 
If there are any direct debits that are no longer present in the originating current account, 
Nationwide should liaise with Ms G and the bank who holds that account to ensure that the 
direct debits are returned to the original account. In short, Nationwide should do all they can 
to help Ms G correct what has happened here.
Nationwide must also make a payment of a further £150 to Ms G, so that the total amount of 
compensation paid is £350.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman