DRN-3473740
The complaint
Mr S complains that Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Loans2Go lent Mr S a loan in October 2020. The loan was for a £250 with 18 monthly 
repayments of £57.14. By the end of the loan term, Mr S would have repaid £1,028.52. 
When Mr S complained to Loans2Go, it didnt uphold his complaint and so he referred it to 
this service. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt think Loans2Go had 
done anything wrong. Mr S disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.  
Loans2Go has provided evidence to show that before lending this loan, it asked Mr S about 
his income and expenses. Mr S declared his income as £2,400 and provided a payslip to 
verify this. Mr S only declared expenses was £200 for groceries. Loans2Go says it worked 
out his monthly expenses as around £1,382, it then says it added a further 10% buffer on his 
expenses and based on the checks Loans2Go thought it would be fair to lend.
The credit file showed that Mr S had a defaulted account with an outstanding balance and 
there was an outstanding loan. Loans2Gos income and expenses calculation suggest Mr S 
would be left with more disposable income than the loan amount and considering the high 
interest on the loan, Loans2Go should have been curious about why Mr S needed to borrow 
less than his monthly disposable income.
In those circumstances, I think Loans2Go should have been looking to take its checks 
further to understand more about Mr S financial circumstances and so I dont think 
Loans2Go reacted appropriately to the information it gathered. 
This service has asked Mr S for copies of his bank statement to understand his 
circumstances at the time of the loan, but he hasnt provided this. So, while on the face of 
these checks, the loan seemed affordable, I think Loans2Go should have taken its checks 
further, but I dont know what it would have found had it done so. Therefore, I cant say it 
was wrong to lend in the circumstances. 
In its final response, Loans2Go offered to write off 60% of the interest on the outstanding 
balance, Mr S should contact Loans2Go directly to see if the offer is still available if he may 
be willing to accept the offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman