DRN-3212073
The complaint
  This complaint is about two applications Mr N made for a mortgage through a broker firm 
that is a representative of Sesame Limited. Hes unhappy with how his applications were 
handled and with how he was treated by the broker firms staff.
What happened
 By way of a provisional decision dated 24 November 2021, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on how this complaint should be determined. The following is an extract from 
the provisional decision.
Kensington had previously offered to refund the following charges:
Account ending 401
Date Fee type Amount
31 May 2014 Arrears Management £50
31 October 2016 Arrears Management £50
31 May 2017 Arrears Management £40
31 July 2017 Arrears Management £40
31 August 2017 Arrears Management £40
Account ending 805
Date Fee type Amount
30 September 2013 Arrears Management £50
30 November 2016 Arrears Management £40
31 January 2017 Arrears Management £40
Additionally, our investigator recommended Kensington refund the following amounts, with 
interest, for which it had been unable to produce invoices.
Account ending 401
Date Fee type Amount
12 October 2016 Field Agents visit £96
Account ending 805
Date Fee type Amount
24 October 2016 Drive-by valuation £42
3 May 2017 Solicitors costs £48
3 May 2017 Solicitors costs £192
21 June 2017 Solicitors costs £60
Kensington asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Whilst not able to provide 
invoices for the additional sums, Kensington argued that all were justified, given the conduct 
of the mortgage at the relevant times.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion from the investigator on the additional 
fees, for the following reasons.
First of all, its correct that our rules only allow us to look back six years from the date the 
complaint started.
Next, the starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms 
to apply fees and charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage account 
that is in arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly. One situation where we 
generally find that arrears fees or charges havent been applied fairly is if the customer has 
paid either the contractual payment or a different amount agreed as part of a payment 
arrangement. 
Ive looked at the fees and charges Kensington applied from 9 September 2013 up to the 
mortgage being redeemed in 2017; Ive also looked at Mr Ms payment record during that 
period. Using the fairness test set out in the previous paragraph, I find that beyond those 
Kensington has already offered to refund, the other fees and charges applied from 
9 September 2013 onwards were applied fairly. So Kensington could reasonably debit them 
to Mr Ms account. That brings me to the question of invoicing.
As a matter of good practice, lenders should be able to produce invoices for the additional 
work they  or third parties acting for them  carry out when manging a mortgage in arrears, 
as Mr Ms was here. But it doesnt then necessarily follow that because an invoice cant be 
produced, a fee must automatically be refunded. I must still consider context; that is, the 
nature of the fee, the circumstances that led to it being charged, and whether the amount 
seems fair and proportionate. 
When I do that, Im struggling to find a compelling argument to find that any of the additional 
un-invoiced fees were unfairly or unreasonably levied. The field agents visit was carried out, 
the situation at the time justified it, and £96 isnt an excessive amount to charge for it. 
Exactly the same reasoning applies with the drive-by valuation. 
As for the solicitors costs, Kensington had, at this stage, initiated the early stages of 
possession proceedings. Given the level of arrears was over £10,000 (relative to an overall 
balance of around £100,000) such action wasnt unwarranted, and Id expect there to be 
legal costs at this stage. The three amounts in question are all well within the bounds of what 
Id consider proportionate. Putting all of the above together, Im not persuaded that the absence of invoices is enough 
to warrant order Kensington to refund the additional fees.
I gave the parties until 8 December 2021 to respond to the provisional decision if they 
wished to. Neither had made any substantive comment or challenged my provisional findings 
in any way. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint by ordering Kensington Mortgage Company 
Limited to:
refund to Mr M the five arrears management fees listed above in respect of account 
ending 401;
refund to Mr M the three arrears management fees listed above in respect of account 
ending 805;
pay Mr M interest at the relevant mortgage rate on each refunded charge, from the date 
it was levied up to the date the mortgage was redeemed; and
pay Mr M interest at 8% simple* on each refunded charge, from the date immediately 
after the date the mortgage was redeemed up to the eventual date of settlement. 
*If Kensington considered it should deduct basic rate income tax from the interest element of 
this award, it must then supply Mr M with the relevant tax certificate.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman