DRN-1723940
 
complaint
Miss L says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Alliance and Leicester, mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. For ease, Ill refer to the business as 
Santander in my decision.
background
Miss L took out a PPI policy when she applied for a mortgage in 2001 and she paid a 
monthly amount for the policy. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 3 March 2020, a copy of 
which is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
In the decision I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations 
that they wished me to consider by 18 March 2020, although the accompanying letters 
stated we wanted a response by 2 April 2020. In any event, we have heard from Miss Ls 
representatives who said they received my provisional decision and communicated the 
outcome to Miss L. And they were made aware that we would wait until 2 April 2020 for any 
further submission Miss L wished to make. So, I think that Miss L would have provided a 
further submission had she wished to make one. So, I am proceeding to my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ls case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
Im currently minded not to uphold Miss Ls complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
I think Santander made Miss L aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and she 
chose to take it. I can see from the application there is a section about PPI with the option to 
select the cover. Miss L ticked the box for the cover. Had she not wanted the cover, she 
could have left the section blank. So, I think this suggests that a discussion took place about 
PPI and a choice was made to take it.
Santander recommended the PPI to Miss L, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and it seems to have been right for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time. For example, Miss L was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. I say that whilst noting Miss L told us she had a 
condition which shed had for over 10 years at the time of the sale. But whilst you had to 
be off work sick for 30 days before you could claim benefit under this policy, Miss L has told 
us that she cant recall ever needing to take a single day off work for that condition during 
the time she had the condition. So, thinking about all the details of this issue, I dont think 
that better information about the exclusions in respect of pre-existing medical conditions 
would have put her off the policy, most likely.
And she seems to have had a need for the cover. I say this because Miss L told us she 
couldnt recall what sick pay she may have been entitled to, such that she expected to have 
to rely on her parents for help if anything went wrong. However, the PPI wouldve been able 
to meet her mortgage payments for up to 12 months, and this would have paid out 
in addition to any sick pay she may have had and would have reduced her reliance on any 
help her parents may have been able to offer her.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the 
policy was suitable for Miss L.
As well as checking the policy was right for Miss L, Santander also had to give her clear 
enough information about the policy, so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information Santander gave Miss L was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for 
the same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more information 
wouldve made a difference to her decision to take out the PPI. So, I dont think Miss L have 
lost out as a result of anything Santander may have done wrong. 
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence of any 
further points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman