DRN-1699873
 
The complaint
Mrs W says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ws credit card account after she applied for the card online. Mrs W paid for the policy 
monthly.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs W says she applied for the credit card by post. But having seen Barclays 
internal records, Im satisfied that she applied for the card online, and a credit 
agreement was then sent to her for signature.
 
Ive seen the credit agreement that Mrs W signed. It includes a section on PPI, 
confirming that Mrs W wished to take the cover. Based on what we know of the way 
Barclays sold these policies at the time, Im satisfied that Mrs W would have been 
given a clear choice as to whether to take out the PPI during the online application 
process. And Im satisfied that the confirmation that she wished to take the cover 
would only have been included in the credit agreement if shed selected that option 
on the online application. I can see that the credit agreement also included a section 
on card protection, which noted that Mrs W didn't want to take that type of cover.
 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mrs W would have 
realised that the PPI was optional. And I think she chose to take it, knowing that she 
didnt have to, although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so 
many years later. 
Given that Mrs W applied for the credit card online, I dont think Barclays gave her 
advice about the PPI, or recommend that she take it out. This means that Barclays 
didnt have to check that the PPI was suitable for Mrs W. It was for her to decide 
whether she wanted to take the cover, knowing what alternative means shed have 
had of making her monthly credit card repayments if shed been off sick, or if shed 
lost her job. But Barclays did have a responsibility to give Mrs W clear enough 
information for her to be able to decide whether the PPI was right for her.
 
Mrs Ws told us shed only have been entitled to statutory sick pay from her employer 
at the time. And although shes told us she had some savings, she cant remember 
how much. 
 
The policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance on Mrs Ws credit card 
account at the time of the claim, for up to 12 months per successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Given her limited sick pay entitlement, I think 
the PPI could have been useful to Mrs W. Whats more, the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any payments Mrs W received from her employer. So she could 
have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldnt have had to 
use her savings to make her monthly credit card repayments. 
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mrs W chose to take out 
the policy. So she appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if shes 
understandably forgotten that now, so long after the event. Based on what shes told 
us about her circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover (for example, unusual employment arrangements or existing 
medical conditions). The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
And since Mrs W was paying for the PPI monthly, she could have cancelled the 
policy at any time if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer 
needed it.
 
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely Mrs W would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed 
still have taken out the policy.
 
This means that Barclays doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays has agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
It got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs 
W, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has agreed to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this 
case.
 What Barclays needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. It should also pay back to Mrs W any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
If it hasnt done so already, Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to 
Mrs W the difference between what Mrs W owes and what she would have owed if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays 
should also pay Mrs W 8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
  
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) doesn't 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Mrs W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should 
now do this if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman