DRN-2511791
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Allianz Insurance Plc isnt offering enough to settle a claim she made 
on her landlord insurance policy. Mrs P is also unhappy about the length of time the claim 
has taken.
Mrs P is represented by her son, Mr P.
What happened
In April 2018, Mrs P made a claim on her landlord insurance policy after rainwater was found 
to be entering the property via the roof, damaging some rooms below. In August and 
September 2018, Mrs P had the roof repaired for £3,759. 
In February 2019, Mrs P obtained two separate quotes for the internal repairs and they both 
came to about £2,500. Allianz appointed a loss adjuster, who visited the insured property in 
March 2019. His report explains that he spoke to the tenants, who told him there had been 
two separate causes of the internal damage  the leaking roof had damaged the hallway, 
and a leaking boiler had damaged a bedroom. The loss adjuster requested the roof and 
plumbing invoices.
In July 2019, Mrs P obtained a further quote for the internal repairs which came £5,582. She 
also obtained an invoice for two separate leak repairs  one to the bath in May 2019 and 
another to a wash basin in June 2019. The invoice also included a mixer tap that was 
replaced in July 2019. In total, the plumbing invoice was for £325.
In October 2019, Mrs P provided the loss adjuster her roof invoice for £3,759, her plumbing 
invoice for £325, and her recent quote for the internal repairs for £5,582. She explained she 
was claiming for £9,666  which was the total of her two invoices and quote.
To settle the claim the loss adjuster offered Mrs P £3,300, less three £250 policy excesses. 
So, £2,550. He said the roof repairs werent covered as the invoice supported the damage 
was due to general maintenance issues, which are specifically excluded by the policy. He 
explained the internal damage caused by the leaking roof is covered under the accidental 
damage cover; and the damage caused by the bath leak, and the damage caused by the 
basin leak, is covered under the escape of water cover. However, he said Allianz wasnt 
accepting the carpets because they were only added to the claim recently after some 
building repairs were declined, and he wasnt shown carpet damage during his visit.
Mrs P complained about the loss adjusters offer, and she reiterated she was seeking £9,666 
to settle her claim. In January 2020, Allianz explained it was satisfied the roof and plumbing 
repairs had been correctly declined. However, it offered to increase the claim settlement for 
the internal damage to meet Mrs Ps £5,582 quote and to only deduct two excesses. 
Therefore, the new settlement offer was £5,082. 
Allianz increased the settlement offer because it didnt think its loss adjuster had accounted 
for the further damage caused by the bath and basin leaks. Allianz also explained it would 
treat the damage from the bathroom leaks as a single claim, because it wasnt clear what 
damage these two leaks had individually caused.
In April 2020, Mrs P sent a new quote to Allianz for the internal damage, for £8,000, from a 
different contractor. She explained this was due to an increase in labour and repair costs, 
and the quote was more applicable to the repairs and the standard required. 
In May 2020, Mrs P contacted our service. She said she hadnt heard from Allianz since she 
sent it the £8,000 quote and she also noted she was losing rent due to not being able to let 
the property out. 
Mr P also went on to explain that he thought Allianz had caused considerable delays and he 
considered it understandable labour and material costs had increased during this time. He 
also noted that the current Covid-19 pandemic was impacting costs as a small team was 
required to ensure a safe working environment. He said that Mrs P was now claiming for 
£11,759, i.e. £3,759 for the roof invoice and £8,000 for the internals repairs; plus, further 
awards for the delays, distress, and loss of rent. He also thought only one policy excess 
should apply.
One of our investigators considered the matter, but she thought the settlement offered by 
Allianz, when responding to Mrs Ps complaint, was fair and reasonable. Because Mr P 
disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill set out my findings under the following headings: roof repairs; plumbing costs; internal 
damage; delays; and loss of rent.
Roof repairs
Mrs Ps policy provides cover for specific insured events  such as a fire, storm, or damage 
caused accidentally. The policy doesnt cover general maintenance, or wear and tear  and 
these things are specifically excluded by her policy terms. As such, the onus is on Mrs P to 
show that the damage to her roof was caused by one of the insured events listed in her 
policy.
Mrs P hasnt said a specific event caused the damage to her roof. Nonetheless, I have seen 
that Allianz considered whether there were storm conditions around the time of the claim. It 
concluded there hadnt been. The loss adjuster also considered the repairs detailed on the 
repair invoice, and he wasnt persuaded the works were typical of damage caused by high 
winds; but rather, he thought the works indicated maintenance issues. He also told Allianz 
that he had contacted the company who did the works, but it hadnt recorded the cause of 
damage or taken any photos.
When a policyholder isnt aware of a specific event that damaged their roof, we generally 
consider it appropriate for their insurer to consider whether the damage was caused by a 
single storm event  as Allianz did here. Therefore, Ive considered the outcome Allianz 
reached for this part of the claim.As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
Mrs Ps policy doesnt define storm. In such circumstances, we generally take the view that a 
storm requires violent winds. The claim was reported at the end of April 2018, and the date 
recorded for when the damage was noticed was mid-April. As such, Ive checked weather 
records from a nearby weather station for March and April 2018. However, these records 
dont support the local area was subject to storm winds during that time. Furthermore, 
theres no suggestion on the invoice that the repairs were due to storm damage. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded a storm caused the damage to the roof and Im satisfied 
Allianzs decision to decline this part of the claim was fair and reasonable.
Plumbing costs
Mr P hasnt indicated that Mrs P is still claiming for her plumbing costs. However, given the 
plumbing invoice was included in the £9,666 figure, I will consider those costs here. 
Mrs Ps policy covers water damage caused by a leak from a pipe or fixed installation, such 
as a bath or basin. However, the policy doesnt cover the cost of repairing a leak unless an 
insured event caused it. So, when a pipe or fixing fails due to general wear, as is the case 
here, the policy doesnt cover those repairs. It only covers the resulting water damage. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Allianz declined Mrs Ps plumbing costs fairly.  
Internal damage
Based on the information provided, its not clear in my view, how the loss adjuster reached 
the initial claim settlement offer of £3,300 for the internal repairs. But in any event, what 
I need to consider here is Allianzs revised offer of £5,582, less two policy excesses.
Allianzs revised offer matched the quote Mrs P provided. This quote was broken down in 
detail and covered the bedroom, hallway, and living room. The quote doesnt include any 
replacement carpets  and in the correspondence I have seen there is no mention of her 
wishing to claim for carpets until late-2019. Mrs P repeatedly quoted £9,666 to settle the 
claim  which was made up of her roof and plumbing invoices, and the £5,582 quote for 
internal repairs. Indeed, £9,666 was also the amount Mrs P quoted when she made her 
complaint in January 2020. The loss adjusters report also doesnt mention carpets.
Mrs P obtained the £5,582 quote in June 2019, and Allianz offered that amount to settle the 
internal damage in January 2020. There wasnt any indication from Mrs P that she could no 
longer use that contractor when she complained in January 2020, or that items had been 
missed from its quote  and even if I were to accept material or labour prices had since 
changed, the £8,000 quote Mrs P submitted in April 2020 included two carpets. I havent seen anything that supports the cost of the internal repairs increased due to the 
time that passed between June 2019 and January 2020. Furthermore, Im not persuaded 
I can reasonably direct Allianz to settle the carpets given water damage wasnt observed 
during the loss adjusters visit, and nor were replacement carpets included in the figures 
previously quoted by Mrs P. So, Im not persuaded the £8,000 quote can reasonably be 
relied on to increase the claim settlement for the internal damage. Overall, Im satisfied 
Allianzs offer to settle the claim for the internal damage based on the £5,582 quote 
submitted by Mrs P, was fair and reasonable.
In terms of the £250 policy excess, this applies to each claim. Mrs P made a claim for water 
damage caused by her leaking roof, for water damage caused by her leaking bath, and for 
water damage caused by her leaking basin. These were three separate incidents, as such, 
they are three separate claims. However, if the second bathroom leak didnt increase the 
repairs needed following the first bathroom leak, treating the damage from the bathroom 
leaks as a single claim is in-line with our general approach. 
To be clear, Ive not seen anything that suggests the bathroom leaks didnt increase the cost 
of the internal repairs that were needed after the roof leak. But rather, the £5,582 quote that 
was obtained after the bathroom leaks included the living room, whereas the two £2,500 
quotes obtained before, didnt. So, Im satisfied its reasonable for Allianz to consider the 
damage under two separate claims and apply two policy excesses.
Given its unclear how the original settlement offer was reached, and when responding to 
Mrs Ps complaint Allianz accepted its loss adjuster hadnt accounted for all the damage, 
I uphold this part of her complaint. However, Im satisfied Allianzs revised offer for the 
internal damage was fair and reasonable given it matched Mrs Ps quote, less the two 
applicable policy excesses. So, I dont require Allianz to increase its settlement offer.
Delays 
Mrs P made the claim in April 2018, and Allianz didnt make a fair settlement offer until 
January 2020. However, in my opinion, based on the information presented I cant 
reasonably decide Allianz unfairly delayed the claim. 
Mrs P didnt have the roof repairs completed until September 2018 or obtain quotes for the 
internal repairs until February 2019. On receipt of this information, Allianz appointed a loss 
adjuster who visited in March 2019. Therefore, Im not persuaded Allianz is responsible for 
the delays during this period.
After the loss adjusters visit, he requested Mrs Ps plumbing and roof repair invoices. Based 
on Mrs Ps comments in her late-2019 correspondence with the loss adjuster, I understand a 
further quote for the internal repair was also requested. The onus was on Mrs P to support 
her claim, and I havent seen or been told anything that leads me to believe the loss 
adjusters requests for this information were unreasonable. 
I havent seen the requested information was provided by Mrs P before October 2019; and 
the loss adjusters claim decision followed soon after. I appreciate the settlement offer later 
increased following a formal complaint, but Ive seen that the loss adjuster and Allianz 
responded to Mrs Ps concerns about the first settlement offer in a timely manner.
So, having considered the information presented, I cant reasonably decide Allianz caused 
delays, or award Mrs P compensation for the time it took Allianz to assess her claim and 
reach a fair outcome.Loss of rent
In terms of Mrs Ps loss of rent, I havent seen this formed part of her claim or the complaint 
she made to Allianz. So, thats not something I can consider here. However, I understand 
her policy provides cover for loss of rent. Therefore, if Mrs P wishes to claim for this, she 
needs to contact Allianz. If shes unhappy with Allianzs response to this part of her claim, 
she will have the opportunity to make a further complaint about this aspect.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
If Allianz Insurance Plc hasnt already done so, I require it to:
-settle the internal damage for £5,582 less two £250 policy excesses, i.e. £5,082; and
-consider Mrs Ps loss of rent in accordance with the policy terms, if this loss is 
presented by her
I make no further awards.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman