DRN-3368901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint relates to a mortgage they applied for with Santander UK Plc. 
They believe that delays on the part of Santander meant that the mortgage couldnt 
complete before the 2021 stamp duty holiday ended. In settlement of the complaint they 
would like Santander to compensate them for the additional stamp duty they incurred. 
What happened
At the beginning of May 2021 Mr and Mrs W applied for a mortgage with Santander via an 
independent mortgage broker. The mortgage they wanted was on an interest-only basis for 
just over £52,500 over a term of nine years. It appears they applied for the mortgage to 
benefit from the stamp duty holiday in place until the end of June 2021, in the event that the 
sale of their existing property didnt complete until after that date.
Various checks were made and a valuation commissioned. The valuation for the property 
was lower than the purchase price. Mr and Mrs Ws broker was messaged on 24 May 2021 
by Santander to inform it, along with an explanation that this meant that the loan-to-value 
(LTV) exceeded the maximum for an interest-only mortgage. It was asked that the broker 
confirm the new loan details to allow the application to proceed. 
Mr and Mrs Ws broker responded on 26 May 2021, confirming that Mr and Mrs W wanted to 
proceed on the basis that £20,000 of the mortgage would be on interest-only and the 
remainder on a capital and interest basis. The revised application was reviewed, approved 
and a mortgage offer was issued on 7 June 2021. Mr Ws middle name was spelled 
incorrectly on this document.
On 9 June 2021 Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor faxed Santander a letter regarding three matters:
CML disclosure of incentives form for the purchase was enclosed, which was needed 
before the mortgage could progress, as it was a new build property. It was asked that 
Santander confirm the contents of the form didnt affect the mortgage offer. 
The title for the property was being granted out of a possessory title, which the solicitors 
believed Santander would accept. It was confirmed that the developer would provide an 
indemnity policy in respect of the title defect based on the purchase price of the property. 
It was asked that Santander confirm that this was acceptable.
Confirmation of the postal address for the property was given.
On 14 June 2021 Mr and Mrs Ws broker confirmed to Santander the spelling of Mr Ws 
middle name. The application details were amended to reflect the corrected name and a new 
mortgage offer was issued on 18 June 2021. 
On 17 June 2021 Santander faxed Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors a response to its queries of 
9 June 2021. The two queries werent specifically referenced and individually answered. 
What Santander said was that it had noted the solicitors comments and was happy to 
proceed. 
On 22 June 2021 Mr W spoke to the broker about the progress of the application. The broker 
suggested that if his solicitors would confirm what information was outstanding, it would 
contact Santander for a response.
On 23 June 2021 Mr W spoke to his solicitors to find out what enquiries were outstanding. It 
was confirmed that neither query from 9 June 2021 had been responded to and details were 
provided. Mr W forwarded the information to the broker and asked it to chase Santander for 
a response. Mr W said that if the response was received that day, then completion could 
hopefully happen on 30 June 2021. Santander has confirmed that it didnt receive any 
contact from the broker after 14 June 2021.
On 28 June 2021 Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors called Santander for an update on the 
application. The solicitors confirmed to Mr and Mrs W Santander had said that it was working 
through correspondence in date order and given it was at that point dealing with post 
received on 7 June 2021, the enquiries wouldnt be dealt with until the end of that week at 
the earliest. The solicitors went on to confirm that it had chased Mr and Mrs Ws buyers 
solicitors again for an update, but hadnt received a response. 
On 6 July 2021 Santander forwarded to Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors the comments it had 
received from its valuer regarding the defective title. In summary it was said that as long as 
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors was happy with the indemnity policy provided by the developer the 
valuation wouldnt be affected by the defective title. The mortgage didnt proceed.
Mr and Mrs Ws purchase went ahead, but theyve confirmed that they didnt do so using a 
mortgage. They complained about the service theyd received, and that it had meant they 
hadnt been able to benefit from the stamp duty holiday as it stood until the end of June 
2021.
Santander initially responded in its letter of 26 July 2021. It said that it had identified issues 
that had led to delays in processing the mortgage application. However, it wouldnt be 
covering any costs for missing the stamp duty holiday deadline. It explained that, while it 
failed to respond to some of points raised by Mr and Mrs W solicitors on 17 June 2021, the 
fact that this wasnt chased up until 28 June 2021 meant that there would never have been 
time to get the outstanding issue fully resolved and completion done before the deadline. In 
recognition of the service Mr and Mrs W received, Santander offered them £100 
compensation for the inconvenience they might have been caused.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and raised concerns about how the complaint had been 
investigated. They said that it was not their solicitors responsibility to chase for updates. 
They said that their broker chased for updates 23 times in June 2021 and they felt that the 
call with their solicitors on 28 June 2021 needed to be listened to.
Santander issued a further response to the complaint on 10 September 2021. It said that it 
was maintaining its decision to uphold the complaint, but it hadnt changed its conclusions. It 
said that it was satisfied that the complaint had been investigated comprehensively. The call 
of 28 June 2021 was listened to, but Santander had been unable to give any guarantees in 
that call as to when the questions raised would be addressed, as Santander was going 
through a very busy period due to the stamp duty holiday cut-off date. It was said that 
Santander couldnt guarantee when completion could take place. Santander repeated that in 
recognition of the overall level of service it had provided, it would credit Mr and Mrs Ws bank 
account with £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy with Santanders response and asked us to look into their 
complaint.One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained that due to the stamp duty holiday ending at the end of June 2021, 
lenders were experiencing high volumes of mortgage applications when Mr and Mrs W made 
their application. He highlighted that a response was sent on 17 June 2021 and had taken 
only 9 calendar days to be dealt with, which wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. 
However, he thought the information provided to the solicitors later in the process should 
have been given at the same time. 
The investigator explained that it was difficult to know what would have happened had all the 
information been provided earlier. This was because the mortgage didnt actually progress 
when the answers were given. It was highlighted that Mr W had told the investigator that the 
mortgage was applied for as back-up in the event the chain didnt allow the purchase to go 
through before the end of June 2021. Given Mr and Mrs W didnt proceed with mortgage, the 
investigator said it was difficult to conclude that the delay caused by Santander was the sole 
reason for stamp duty being incurred. He then looked at the mortgage application as a whole 
and said that two months to process and agree a mortgage application wasnt unreasonable. 
No guarantees were given that completion would go through within the timescales 
Mr and Mrs W desired. As such, the £100 compensation Santander had paid was enough to 
compensate for the delay Santander had caused. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions and wanted to pursue the 
complaint further. As such, the complaint has been referred to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator pointed out, the mortgage industry was particularly busy during the 
period Mr and Mrs W applied for their mortgage. Mr and Mrs W wanted it to complete in less 
than two months from when their application was submitted, which might have been 
possible, but given when they applied there was always the possibility of the mortgage not 
going through in time. I say this as I would expect it to take in the region of six to eight weeks 
for a mortgage application to be accepted and an offer issued in normal circumstances, and 
May 2021 was not normal circumstances.  Many lenders were unable to maintain their usual 
service standards because of the demand at that time and I cant find Santander at fault for 
being in that position. 
Three weeks before Mr and Mrs Ws hoped-for completion date their solicitors provided 
Santander with information about inducements from the developer and confirmed that the 
title of the property being bought was defective. Both of these issues could have impacted 
whether Santander would grant the mortgage at all. In particular, the issue about the 
defective title could have affected the valuation and it needed to be referred to the valuer to 
see if that was the case. So the queries werent simple and quick to deal with. However, 
Santander confirmed that it was willing to proceed with the mortgage seven working days 
later. I dont think that was an unreasonable timescale, even in normal circumstances. I also 
note that Santander faxed that confirmation to Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors to avoid any delays 
in the postal system.
However, it appears that Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors wanted something more from Santander 
that a general confirmation that it was willing to proceed with the mortgage. It doesnt appear 
that Santander was made aware of that until 28 June 2021. I note that Mr and Mrs W have 
said that it wasnt their solicitors responsibility to chase Santander for answers, but given their solicitors had an answer but wanted something different/more from Santander, it 
wouldnt seem unreasonable for the solicitors to have gone back to Santander. I also note 
that Mr and Mrs W believe that the application was chased many times in June 2021 but that 
doesnt appear to be the case from the contact logs I have reviewed, although the broker 
checking up on the progress of the application through the online portal wouldnt show on 
the logs. 
Once it was made clear to Santander that the solicitors needed something more, when the 
solicitors called on 28 June 2021, Santander arranged for separate confirmation of the 
valuers comments about the defective title to be provided. That took a further six working 
days, which again is understandable given the general circumstances. 
It would clearly have been helpful if Santander had been more expansive in its response in 
the middle of June and for it to have provided more information to Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors. 
Santander has offered Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation for any stress or inconvenience 
this may have caused them. In the circumstances, I think that is a reasonable sum to 
compensate them for that omission. 
Mr and Mrs W want Santander to reimburse them the stamp duty they had to pay on their 
purchase, because they wouldnt have paid it had the mortgage completed when they 
wanted it to. In order for me to require Santander to reimburse that cost to Mr and Mrs W I 
would need to be persuaded that, but for Santanders omission, the mortgage would have 
completed on 30 June 2021. I havent been able to conclude that. As I have said above, 
there was never a guarantee that the mortgage would have been able to complete given 
they wanted to complete in less than two months. 
I would also comment that it is a normal service standard for lenders to require five working 
days notice for the release of a mortgage advance. While this timescale can sometimes be 
shorter, when a lender is busy, the five days would be needed. That effectively means that 
there was only ten working days from the enquiries being made to when the advance would 
have needed to be requested. In that time Santander would have had to assess the 
information provided, have the valuation reviewed and provided an answer to 
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors. Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors would then have needed to obtain the 
indemnity policy details and assess it to confirm it safeguarded the property title, before 
requesting the mortgage be advanced. There is no guarantee that could have been done. 
There is also then the fact that the mortgage didnt ever complete, as Mr and Mrs W decided 
not to go ahead with it. There are many variables here and because of that, I cant conclude 
that the mortgage would have gone ahead if Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors had been given all of 
the information it wanted in Santanders fax of 17 June 2021. As such, I cant require 
Santander to reimburse the amount of the stamp duty Mr and Mrs W paid.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman