DRN-4024355
The complaint
Ms W complains that National Westminster Bank Plcs (NatWest) failure to close her bank 
account led to her credit file being impacted negatively and was the reason she was declined 
for a mortgage.
 
What happened
Ms W held a current account with NatWest without an arranged overdraft. Ms Ws account 
became overdrawn in October 2016 which led to charges being applied and Ms Ws account 
being transferred to NatWests debt management team. NatWest wrote to Ms W regarding 
the unarranged overdraft position of the account on 27 March, 8 and 15 April 2017 and 
following no response NatWest issued a 60-day closure letter on 26 April 2017 and a formal 
demand on 27 June 2017. Ms W got in touch the following month and a repayment plan was 
put in place for the period August 2017 to June 2018.
Ms Ws credit report from December 2021 shows the unarranged overdraft, an arrangement 
to pay and adverse information from May 2017 to June 2018.
In August 2018 point of sale transactions again put Ms Ws account back in unarranged 
overdraft and charges were applied in October and November which NatWest refunded. 
Despite this the account remained overdrawn and further charges were applied.
Ms W complained to NatWest regarding this saying that she had requested the account be 
closed and that the failure to do this had resulted in her being declined for a mortgage due to 
adverse information reported on her credit file. 
NatWest found no evidence of a request to close the account but because Ms W hadnt used 
the account since it refunded charges in November 2018 it agreed to a further refund of 
charges in October 2021 which put Ms Ws account at a nil balance in preparation for 
closure and her account was closed on 4 January 2022. 
NatWest made an adjustment to Ms Ws credit file and confirmed that any overdrawn 
balances were corrected on 19 October 2021 and that there was no adverse information 
reporting after June 2018. NatWest offered Ms W £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused which she declined wishing instead to bring her complaint to this 
service. Ms W wants to be compensated £68,100 representing the extra rent she says she 
had to pay and for price increases in the housing market during the seven month period she 
was declined for a mortgage.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ws complaint but didnt think NatWests failure to 
close her account was a contributing factor for her mortgage application being declined. 
They thought what was reported on Ms Ws credit file was an accurate reflection of what 
happened and didnt think NatWest acted unfairly by reporting this information to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to. They thought in the absence of evidence that there 
wasnt enough evidence to show Ms Ws account with NatWest was the cause of her 
mortgage application being declined and that £750 compensation offered was a fair way to 
settle the complaint and didnt think NatWest needed to do anything more.  
So Ms Ws has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Ms W says NatWests failure to close her account led to adverse information being reported 
on her credit file which resulted in her being declined for a mortgage. But having seen a copy 
of Ms Ws credit file the only adverse information I can see reported is for the period 
between May 2017 and June 2018 when she was in an arrangement to pay back her 
overdraft. 
NatWest has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate and from the information Ive 
seen what NatWest reported is a true reflection of what happened. So I cant say NatWest 
made a mistake here or did anything wrong.
Ms W has provided emails from her mortgage broker which she says supports the fact it was 
the reporting of the NatWest account which caused her mortgage application to be declined. 
But I dont agree. The emails record that there were multiple adverse entries over a number 
of accounts. And Ms Ws mortgage application was declined with one provider due to her 
failing its own internal credit scoring. So I cant say that Ms Ws failure to get a mortgage was 
due to NatWests reporting on the conduct of Ms Ws account.
NatWest did agree however that an error had been made by not closing Ms Ws account 
sooner. And to put things right it refunded all charges and interest on the account applied 
from November 2018 to put the account at a zero balance and to amend Ms Ws credit file 
so that no overdrawn balances showed from this point  putting Ms W in the position she 
wouldve been if the error hadnt been made. 
Furthermore, it offered Ms W £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused which I think 
in the circumstances is a fair way to settle Ms Ws complaint and as such Im not requiring 
NatWest to do any more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what National Westminster Bank Plc has already done 
to put things right for Ms W is a fair way to settle her complaint and Im not going to ask it to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman