DRN-3193812
Complaint
Miss B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plcs (NatWest) unfairly removed 
her overdraft and issued a default on her credit file.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Bs complaint. He thought NatWests offer to refund 
the overdraft interest from September 2014 was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the complaint. He also thought NatWest was entitled to withdraw Miss Bs overdraft and 
default the account when it did and therefore it hadnt treated Miss B unfairly. Miss B 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to do 
to put things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her complaint. 
Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
It isnt in dispute that Miss Bs account hadnt seen a credit balance for a significant period of 
time by May 2018.  I know Miss B is unhappy that NatWest decided to take corrective action 
on the overdraft in the summer of 2018. But I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable 
or proportionate to continue ignoring Miss Bs obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that 
the overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her, indefinitely. 
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. So when Miss Bs account management suggested she was 
unlikely to repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time, I think that it was fair and 
reasonable for NatWest to begin the process of taking corrective action in relation to the 
facility. 
Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for NatWest to begin 
the process of taking corrective action in relation to Miss Bs overdraft when it did and issue 
a formal demand notice offering Miss B the opportunity bring her account up-to-date before it 
would take any action. 
I know that Miss B says she never received the formal demand notice. But it was correctly 
addressed to the address NatWest had for Miss B and it could only send the notice to the 
address Miss B provided. As this is the case and Miss B didnt or wasnt able to take steps to 
comply with the correctly addressed formal demand for payment, Im satisfied that NatWest 
was entitled to withdraw the overdraft and record the information it did on Miss Bs credit file. 
I accept that NatWest has offered to refund the interest, fees and charges applied to       
Miss Bs account from September 2014. And Miss B has suggested that NatWest should 
remove the default as well as or instead of this. But asking NatWest to do this here when the 
amount she defaulted on was largely made up of the spending on the account rather than 
any interest, fees and charges, would arguably be counterproductive and not in Miss Bs 
interests or that of any future lender, as Id be effectively be asking NatWest to record that 
the account was settled on time when it wasnt.
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already 
offered to do to put things right for Miss B  refunding the interest, fees and charges added 
to the account from September 2014  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss B. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. I 
leave it up to Miss B to decide whether she wishes to accept NatWests offer.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already offered to do to put things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of her complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman