DRN-2792558
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed her account, keep chasing 
her for payments and have treated her unfairly.
What happened
Miss Rs Barclaycard account became overdue in September 2019. The arrears werent 
cleared until the beginning of 2020. However, in December 2019 Barclays took the decision 
to close Miss Rs Barclaycard account due to interactions between Miss R and Barclays staff 
through secure online messages. 
Barclays said the content of some of the messages Miss R sent was extremely offensive 
and discriminatory and that the language used was unacceptable. It told her that it would be 
restricting her use of the account in line with its terms and conditions, so shed still be able to 
make payments towards it but wouldnt be able to use her card anymore.
Miss R was unhappy about this. She said Barclays had been harassing her for payments, 
and that she couldnt contact them except for on expensive numbers which she couldnt 
afford to call. 
Following our investigators involvement and some mediation between the parties, it was 
agreed that Barclays would reinstate Miss Rs account and allow her use of a card. But 
Miss R said she continued to experience problems with her account. She asked for us to 
look at everything again, and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided the complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
Barclays wasnt aware of Miss Rs disability and other personal circumstances, until this 
services involvement in the complaint. It wasnt reasonable for Barclays to close Miss Rs 
account without any warning, though I also appreciate that Barclays staff shouldnt have to 
tolerate abusive language.
Once Barclays became aware of Miss Rs disability and her difficulties in communicating, it 
agreed to reinstate her account and pay Miss R £250 compensation to say sorry for closing 
the account prematurely. I think this was a fair outcome in the circumstances.
Miss R says she cant contact Barclays unless she calls expensive phone numbers. Barclays 
has confirmed that the number she can call them on is a free phone number. She also says 
she has requested statements for the last six months but that these are missing. Barclays 
has confirmed that it will send these to her. Miss R has also said she has been harassed and 
has received threats from Barclays staff, but I havent been able to find evidence of this.
Miss R has also said shes been having issues accessing her account. Barclays has said 
this may be because shes forgotten her login details. It has suggested she visits their 
website, selects login, then clicks on forgotten your login details, and follows the steps on 
screen. It has confirmed it wont be able to send her login details to her via email. I dont 
think thats unreasonable. But if Miss R continues to have difficulty accessing her account, 
she should contact Barclays on one of its free phone numbers for further assistance.
Putting things right
Barclays has paid Miss R the £250 compensation that was agreed and has reinstated her 
Barclaycard account. 
If Barclays has not already done so, it should issue Miss R with a new card, provide her with 
a free phone number to call from her mobile phone, and send Miss R monthly statements 
using her preferred contact method.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman