DRN-2372679
Complaint
Mrs M says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), trading as TSB at the time, mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
Background
Mrs M applied for a Mastercard and a Visa TSB Trustcard at the same time in October 1996. 
The accounts ran separately, and PPI applied to both. But there was only one point of sale, 
so Ive considered the sale of the PPI on both cards as one complaint.
The PPI cost no more than 79p per £100 of Mrs Ms outstanding monthly statement 
balances. And in the event that she was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, the 
PPI would have paid off 10% of those balances for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to let Mrs M know the policy was optional and it had to get her consent before it 
added PPI to her accounts. 
Mrs M originally said she didnt know about the PPI, but following our adjudicators view, she 
said that she was forced to sign for it. Mrs M also gave some information about her fathers 
experience at the same branch, which she says supports that she would not have had a 
choice.
First, Ive thought carefully about what Mrs Ms said about being forced to take PPI. But this 
is a subjective area  what one person perceives as pressure may be different to another. 
Mrs M hasnt provided a detailed account of what made her feel forced to take PPI and I 
cant know exactly what would have been said during the meeting. So, considering her 
original complaint was that she didnt know she had PPI, without more information from 
Mrs M  I cant say she was forced into taking it. Ive also thought about what Mrs Ms said 
about her fathers understanding of the sales practices of the relevant branch at the time she 
was sold her PPI. But in the absence of any persuasive evidence to suggest these practices 
took place when Mrs M was sold her PPI, I cant uphold the complaint on this point. 
Lloyds says Mrs M selected PPI on her application form, and its provided a copy for me to 
consider. Looking at Mrs Ms application form, there is a section about PPI with a brief 
explanation of what it is and a statement that reads I wish to apply for TSB Credit Card 
Payments Insurance. Next to this, there is a box to tick for PPI and this has been ticked, 
indicating that Mrs M wanted PPI. 
Mrs M also had the option of selecting another product that provided card protection and I 
can see that she didnt select this product. So, I think Mrs M would have known she had a 
choice about taking out either product. And I think Mrs M would have understood the PPI 
was optional. So, I dont think she would have selected PPI if she didnt want it. Which 
means I think Mrs M was aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose 
to take it at the time.
Mrs M could not remember whether she received any advice from Lloyds. But Lloyds has 
reviewed the sale as though advice was given. This puts more responsibility on Lloyds  it 
means it had to check the policy was suitable for Mrs M. So, in fairness to her, Ive 
considered the case on the basis that advice was given.
Based on everything Mrs Ms told us about her circumstances, I think the PPI was suitable 
for her. I say this because she was eligible for the PPI and she doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the things that might have made it harder for her to make a claim, such as 
having a pre-existing medical condition or unusual employment circumstances.
Mrs M says she was entitled to 12 months full pay if she was off sick from work. She also 
says that she lived with her parents at the time and they would have helped her if necessary. 
Mrs M hasnt been able to provide any evidence of her sick pay. So, Ive thought about 
whether I think its likely she would have had the level of sick pay she says she did, 
considering the industry she worked in, the job title she held and her length of employment. 
Its very unusual for an employer, in the industry Mrs M worked in, to offer such generous 
sick pay to its employees. Particularly, considering Mrs Ms job title and her length of 
employment  the application form shows that Mrs M had only worked for her employer for 
three months at the time of sale. So, in the absence of anything persuasive to support what 
Mrs Ms told us, I dont think the likely sick pay she would have been entitled to would have 
meant the policy wasnt suitable for her.
The PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs M received and potentially for 
longer. Mrs M could also have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. And 
while its possible Mrs Ms parents may have wanted to help, circumstances could change 
which means their help could not always be relied on. So, I think the PPI could have been 
useful to Mrs M if she fell on hard times.
I also havent seen anything to show the policy was unaffordable for Mrs M.
Lloyds also needed to give Mrs M enough information about the PPI so she could decide 
whether it was right for her. And its possible it didnt. But for the same reasons as I think the 
policy was suitable for Mrs M, I dont think better information would have made a difference 
to her decision to buy PPI and I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Finally, Ive thought about the non-disclosure of commission and profit share on the PPI for 
both the Mastercard and the Visa. Our adjudicator has already explained that Mrs Ms Mastercard ended in 2005, so Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs M paid for the PPI. But Mrs Ms Visa 
account was still open, so Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI on the Visa to 
Mrs M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) on the Visa card - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Lloyds 
didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share on the 
Visa card that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think Mrs Ms PPI was mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on the Visa account only. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman