DRN-3999409
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Affinity Insurance Solutions Limited mis-sold her a home insurance 
policy. She said she wasnt made aware of a policy exclusion and this impacted on her when 
she had to make a claim.
What happened
In April 2021 Mrs K suffered a bereavement, which resulted in her inheriting a property.
On 8 June 2021, Mrs Ks husband contacted Affinity over the telephone to request that it 
quote for and arrange a home insurance policy on behalf of his wife. Mr K told Affinity his 
wife wanted to insure the inherited property and that shed given him authority to act on her 
behalf. Mr K also informed Affinity that the property in question was unoccupied.
Affinity explained that an unoccupied property would be subject to restricted cover and Mr K 
decided to take out the policy during the sales call.
Affinity emailed policy documentation to Mrs K via the email address that Mr K had provided 
and the policy renewed for a second year in July 2022.
In mid-December 2022, Mrs K became aware that the property had suffered serious damage 
following an escape of water. At this time, the property remained unoccupied. However, Mr 
and Mrs K were visiting the property on a regular basis to maintain its upkeep. 
Mrs K contacted the policy underwriter, which Ill refer to here as P, to report a claim. But 
she was informed that an escape of water was excluded under the policy because the 
property was unoccupied. It pointed her to the policy terms, which confirmed the exclusion.
Mrs K complained to Affinity that it had mis-sold the policy during the initial sales call. She 
said she wasnt made aware of the policy exclusion and was now being detrimentally 
impacted as a result. But Affinity didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint as it said the call handler 
that had discussed the policy with Mr K, immediately prior to the policy inception, had made 
him aware on several occasions that there was restricted cover if a property was 
unoccupied. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Being dissatisfied with Affinitys response to her complaint, Mrs K referred it to our service. 
She stated that shed been a vulnerable consumer at the time the policy had been incepted 
 having been affected by grief and ill health. And she said that her husband had been 
worried about her wellbeing and suffering with grief at the time he contacted Affinity. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and empathised with Mrs K. But they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They were persuaded that Affinity had provided clear 
information about the policy features and exclusions at the point of sale and in the policy 
documentation provided once the policy had been incepted.
Affinity agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs K didnt and asked for 
her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K has sent submissions in response to our investigators view of her complaint. I want to 
assure her Ive read and considered everything that both she and Affinity have sent when 
reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mrs K raised as Ive focused on 
what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mrs K wont take that as a discourtesy, my 
approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
I can appreciate why Mrs K is disappointed with our investigators view of her complaint. 
Ive no doubt that discovering an escape of water and finding out a claim wasnt covered 
under the policy was very distressing for her. 
Mrs K believes she was mis-sold the home insurance policy that was incepted on 8 June 
2021. She states she wasnt told an escape of water wouldnt be covered if the property 
was unoccupied for more than 60 consecutive days.
Mr K incepted the policy on Mrs Ks behalf having obtained a quote over the telephone 
from Affinity. I recognise that, at that time, Mrs K was unwell and affected by grief given 
her recent bereavement. So, she couldnt arrange insurance herself. She delegated this 
task to Mr K and hasnt told us that he didnt have authority to act on her behalf when 
taking out the policy with Affinity. 
Ive listened very carefully to the call recording from 8 June 2021 that Affinity provided our 
service. The quality of the recording is good in terms of its volume and content. I 
understand that Mrs K has been provided with a copy of the call recording in the interests 
of candour.
At the start of the telephone call, Mr K explains that he is wishing to insure an unoccupied 
property on behalf of his wife. The call handler informs him that a restriction applies on 
the cover that is available where a property is unoccupied for more than 60 consecutive 
days. This is mentioned a second time by the call handler and Mr K says thats fine. He 
confirms that hes happy with the policy terms and asks the call handler to set the policy 
up. He then provides his email address for receipt of the policy documents.
Based on the content of the call recording, Im persuaded it was made clear to Mr K on at 
least three occasions that cover for claims relating to a property that was unoccupied for 
more than 60 consecutive days would be restricted. 
Affinitys policy booklet outlines in detail the policy exclusions and how a claim would be 
settled in the event one was made where a property is unoccupied. This is important 
because it enables a policyholder to make an informed decision about whether the policy 
provides adequate cover. This is why insurers offer a cooling off period  during which a 
policyholder can cancel they policy theyve taken out without a financial penalty.
After this policy was purchased, Affinity sent Mrs K a policy booklet and schedule via the 
email address Mr K had provided during the sales call. On the first page of the letter Mrs K 
was sent I can see Affinity advises a policyholder to check the policy carefully to ensure that 
everythings correct and the cover youve chosen is right for you. 
I think this letter made it clear that Affinity wouldnt provide any advice on the suitability of 
the policy, and that it was for Mrs K to determine suitability for herself.The policy terms Mrs K received were significantly more detailed than the information 
provided during the sales call. I say this because the policy booklet is 46 pages in length, 
which isnt unusual.
Having considered the policy documentation Affinity provided Mrs K Im satisfied that the 
level of cover for unoccupied properties is clear and not misleading. Its clear that an escape 
of water claim would be excluded under the policy where a property was unoccupied for 
more than 60 consecutive days. I should also add that all home insurance policies hold an 
unoccupied property exclusion (often for 30 days unoccupancy) because of the obvious 
increase in risk to a property that is unoccupied, especially in winter.
Mrs K may feel its an unrealistic expectation to have to read all the policy documents she 
was sent by Affinity. But its clear that insuring the property while it was unoccupied was 
particularly important to her. And I think its reasonable to expect her, like any policyholder, 
to read the documents and policy wording she received to ensure the policy remained 
suitable to her needs and matched the cover she required. 
The policy documentation Mrs K received sets out the limitations and policy exclusions that 
applied to an unoccupied property. She could have exercised her right to cancel her policy 
without penalty during the cooling-off period if the cover wasnt suitable. I cant fairly hold 
Affinity responsible if Mrs K didnt read information that was outlined in clear terms that 
related to the limitations of cover for an unoccupied property. 
Mrs K has told our service that both her and her husband were vulnerable consumers at the 
time the policy was incepted. And I recognise that the policy was taken out at the time of 
recent bereavement and when Mrs K was unwell. However, the evidence satisfies me that 
the restriction on cover was explained to Mr K during the sales call and to Mrs K in the policy 
documents. 
I havent seen enough to persuade me that Mrs and Mr Ks circumstances were such that 
they precluded their understanding of the policy terms. And, as Ive already mentioned, there 
were opportunities after the policy was purchased where Mrs K could have checked the level 
of cover available.
Having considered the sales process, and the policy terms and conditions, Im satisfied 
Affinity provided information to Mrs K in a clear, fair and not misleading way to enable her to 
make an informed choice about whether the cover purchased was suitable. This means I 
dont think the policy was mis-sold.
I realise Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons already outlined Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman