DRN-3715132
The complaint
Miss S complains about Bastion Insurance Company (Bastion) who offered an under-valued 
cash settlement following a claim under her gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S phone was stolen, and she contacted Bastion to make a claim. Bastion accepted the 
claim and offered £300. Miss S wasnt happy with the offer as her own investigations found 
that the phone value was much higher. So, she complained to Bastion. 
Bastion increased its offer to a total of £385, on condition that the cheque would be sent to 
Miss S credit provider (Miss S had originally purchased her phone on credit) by cheque. 
Bastion also said that this offer was in full and final settlement. 
Miss S credit provider would not accept a cheque or indeed any payment from a third party 
(namely Bastion) as they said the contract was between them and Miss S and no one else. 
Miss S said that she told Bastion the position and still did not receive any cash settlement. 
She also explained that she felt that she had been pressurised into accepting the offer. But 
as there was no way of her getting a settlement, she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, including whether our service had 
jurisdiction to deal with the complaint. Given that, Bastion said that as Miss S had accepted 
its offer in full and final settlement, our service couldnt deal with the complaint. 
Our investigators view was that our service could investigate the complaint especially as 
there was no way of Miss S receiving the settlement. And he was satisfied that Miss S 
replies to Bastion didnt constitute full acceptance of the settlement offer, as he felt that she 
had clearly disputed the proposed settlement. Furthermore, our investigator looked at the 
valuation of the phone. He felt Bastions offer was far lower than what a phone in a similar 
condition was worth. So, he recommended that Bastion pay £520 as a fair and reasonable 
valuation for the phone. As well as, £75 for the trouble and upset Miss S experienced. 
During the course of our investigators consideration of the complaint, Bastion paid Miss S 
£385, which it said represented its assessment of the value of the phone.
Miss S accepted the view, Bastion did not. It accepted that our service had jurisdiction to 
deal with the complaint, but didnt accept the valuation of the phone, as assessed by our 
investigator. Bastion said that it believed that the valuation obtained by our investigator was 
a valuation based on less than 8% of total available listings. It felt that this wasnt fair or 
accurate and certainly couldnt be used to offer a fair valuation of the device. 
Bastion did increase its offer (without including any payment for compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused) to £420. And said that our investigator had shown bias 
towards Miss S. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. And I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether Bastions valuation of the phone was fair, in the 
circumstances. I must point out that I have considered all the evidence and points raised by 
both parties. If I dont mention a point, it isnt because I havent considered it, I have. But as 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see what Bastions obligations were when 
settling claims. Cash settlements are permitted under the policy. But inherent in this, is that 
the cash settlement ought to allow Miss S to obtain a replacement phone, with the same 
specification, as her previous insured phone. 
The policy also allows for Bastion to source the replacement phone from online selling 
websites. And Bastion provided a screenshot of phones with similar specifications as that of 
the stolen phone. Initially Bastion made an offer of £300. Which it said was based on the 
screenshot it had found on online selling sites. But this offer was increased first to £385 and 
later to £420. 
Although I can see that Bastion said the initial offer was based on the screenshot valuations, 
there appears to be no information it has provided as to why and what evidence it relied on 
to increase the offer to £420. In any event, Miss S didnt agree with the offers, as she said 
they were too low. 
Miss S provided evidence that showed that she had purchased her phone new, around six 
months earlier. The cost of the phone at that time was around £877.  Miss S explained that 
her phone at the time of the theft, was in good condition. And I note that Bastion hasnt 
refuted this, so I find that this was the case. 
Having reviewed the policy, it allows for a replacement (although not new) phone of an 
equivalent age, condition and value of the stolen phone. I accept that it also allows Bastion 
to obtain the valuation of a phone from online selling websites. But from the screenshot 
relied upon by Bastion, I can find very limited information regarding the age, equivalent value 
or condition of the phones for sale. 
I note that Bastion said that our investigator based the valuation of the phone on a very small 
number of listings, which it said wasnt a fair reflection of the valuation of the phone. Yet, 
Bastion provided a screenshot of four phones, one of which showed no image of the phone. 
And none of them provided enough information about the sellers, their selling history, 
whether they were credible/reputable or not. And there was no information about when the 
screenshot was taken.
The policy allows the following, in circumstances were a phone is stolen: we will provide a 
replacement item of equivalent age and value also this policy does not provide a 
'replacement as new' gadget. If your gadget cannot be replaced with an identical item of the 
same age and condition, we will replace it with one of comparable specification or the 
equivalent value, considering the age and condition of the original item. From this, I think 
that the policy allowed Bastion to replace the phone with a device that was the same age, condition and value. And wasnt a new phone. From the screenshot that Bastion provided, 
as I have previously mentioned, there was limited information regarding the phones age 
(most appeared to be over a year old), condition or equivalent value. Even for allowing for 
depreciation of value of the phone, I dont think on the limited information that Bastion 
provided to support its position, was a fair and reasonable reflection of the value of Miss S 
phone at the time of loss.
I understand that Bastion has relied upon the policy that says that it is permitted to obtain the 
lowest value phone. But the term confirms that the phone will be of an equivalent age, 
model and wear & tear. From the screenshot Bastion relied upon, Im not satisfied that it 
reflected a phone of an equivalent age, model or wear and tear. 
Taking all of these points into consideration, I dont think that Bastion were fair or reasonable 
in its valuation of Miss S phone. As the policy permits that the replacement phone (or its 
cash equivalent) need to be of the equivalent model, age and wear and tear, I think its fair 
and reasonable that the cash settlement of the claim, cover these conditions. Consequently, 
having reviewed the quotes that were for phones of a similar specification, age and model, 
Im satisfied that a cash settlement of £520 for the phone, is fair. 
I have also looked at the level of service that Bastion provided to Miss S. Having reviewed 
this, I think that the level of service was poor. Our approach is that, if an error has caused 
the consumer more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might reasonably 
expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just minimal, then an 
apology wont be enough to remedy the mistake.
Im satisfied that there were repeated errors (for instance, Bastion insisting on sending Miss 
S credit provider the settlement, when this wasnt a valid method of settlement), that 
required a reasonable effort for Miss S to try to sort out. Im also satisfied that the impact of 
Bastions actions caused Miss S some stress and inconvenience. Especially as she had 
mentioned the impact on her specific family circumstances.  Consequently, for the poor 
service, I think it is fair and reasonable that Bastion pay Miss S £75 to reflect the errors and 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
I direct Bastion Insurance Company to put things right as I set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss S complaint and direct Bastion Insurance 
Company:
To pay Miss S £520 as a cash settlement for the stolen phone. 
To pay Miss S £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Bastion Insurance Company must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman