DRN-2982004
The complaint
Miss P complains about TSB Bank plc and their failure to apply her payment holiday 
correctly.
What happened
Miss P held a loan account with TSB. In April 2020, Miss P requested a payment holiday on 
this loan, due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact this had on her financial situation. 
TSB agreed a payment holiday for the following three months.
But on 2 June, TSB collected Miss Ps monthly payment of £294.16 in error. Miss P noticed 
this and called TSB to complain. TSB acknowledged their error and advised Miss P to raise 
a Direct Debit Indemnity Claim (DDIC) with her current account provider, who Ill refer to as 
N, to ensure the payment was returned. Miss P followed this advice and receive a refund of 
the payment the next day. 
But Miss P remained unhappy and continued with her complaint. She was unhappy TSB had 
failed to notify her that the payment had been taken, meaning shed had to call them directly. 
She explained her rent was due in the days after the payment had been taken and shed had 
a sleepless night worrying about whether shed be able to pay this. So, she wanted to be 
compensated for the upset shed been caused.
TSB upheld Miss Ps complaint. They explained a system error had meant her payment 
holiday had only been put in place for one month, rather than three. And this is why the 
payment was taken. They offered Miss P £50 to recognise the upset this caused and a 
further £18 to cover her call expenses. They also explained theyd amend Miss Ps credit file 
to ensure no negative information was recorded.
But Miss P remained unhappy with this response. She was unhappy TSB placed the £50 
into her account before shed received their complaint response. And she was unhappy at 
the service shed received from TSB in relation to her complaint, including mis-advice she 
felt shed been provided. So, she didnt think the £50 was enough and she raised a 
complaint with our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt dispute TSB had 
taken the payment in error. And she recognised the upset this wouldve caused Miss P at the 
time due to her financial situation and recent bereavement. But she thought TSB had given 
Miss P the right advice when advising her to raise a DDIC. And by doing so, had prevented 
Miss P from any financial loss. Because of this, she thought the £50 TSB offered, plus the 
£18 for call expenses, was a fair one. So, she didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Our investigator also explained Miss Ps concerns about a failed payment in August 2020 
was a separate issue that would need to be raised with TSB separately.
Miss P didnt agree. She maintained her view that the £50 didnt adequately recognise the 
upset and inconvenience shed been caused. And she referred at length to the service TSB 
provided during their investigation of Miss Ps complaint. As Miss P didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain how and why Ive reached my decision, I want to explain exactly what Ive 
been able to consider. Miss P has raised concerns about a missed payment in August 2020. 
This event took place after TSB issued their final response to Miss Ps complaint so its a 
separate issue that Im not able to consider within this decision. Miss P would need to raise 
this directly with TSB and allow them to respond within their complaint process.
Im also unable to consider Miss Ps concerns about TSBs handling of her complaint. This is 
because complaint handling is an unregulated activity so any concerns about this fall outside 
of our services jurisdiction. So, my decision is focused solely on Miss Ps complaint about 
the way TSB applied Miss Ps payment holiday and the payment that was taken during this 
time.
And I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss P. I recognise Miss P 
applied for a payment holiday due to the financial impact the COVID-19 pandemic had on 
her income. And I understand this came at a time where Miss P was already struggling 
mentally due to a recent bereavement. I appreciate Miss P wouldve budgeted on the 
understanding the payment wouldnt be taken for a three-month period. So, when it was 
taken, I recognise the stress this wouldve caused as Miss P wouldve had other financial 
commitments she needed to pay.
TSB have already acknowledged they made a mistake when taking the payment. So, I dont 
intend to discuss this further. What is in dispute is the offer TSB have made Miss P to 
recognise the upset and inconvenience shes been caused. So, Ive instead thought about 
whether this offer is fair. For me to say TSB need to do something more, Id need to be 
satisfied this offer is less than what I wouldve directed had TSB not made it in the first place. 
In this situation, I dont think thats the case. And Ill explain why.
When considering the impact on Miss P, Im only able to consider actual losses, not losses 
that may have incurred but didnt. Miss P has confirmed she contacted N to raise a DDIC 
after she was advised to do so by TSB. And Miss P has confirmed N was able to do this in 
minutes, with a refund being applied to her account soon after. So, Miss P wasnt impacted 
financially by the error TSB made as she had the funds refunded to her in time to ensure all 
of her existing financial commitments were paid.
But I dont dispute Miss P wouldve been worried at the time she recognised the payment 
had been taken. Before N confirmed the refund would be processed to her account, Miss P 
wouldve rightly been concerned about how she was going to be able to meet her financial 
commitments as I think its likely shed have budgeted with the payment holiday in mind. 
Miss P has confirmed she was caused a sleepless night because of this and I dont doubt 
this wouldve been the case.
I also recognise the time and effort it wouldve taken Miss P to call TSB to make them aware 
of their error. And I also appreciate the cost these calls wouldve incurred. TSB have 
acknowledged this and offer Miss P £18 to cover the costs of these calls, which I think is reasonable.
I also understand Miss Ps unhappiness that TSB didnt contact her to make her aware of the 
error. Ive seen TSB internal notes, which satisfy me they were aware a payment had been 
taken incorrectly a few days before Miss P called them. But even if TSB had made Miss P 
aware earlier, she wouldve been left in the same position of needing to arrange a DDIC with 
N to ensure her refund was processed as quickly as possible. So, although I think TSBs 
service couldve been better here, I dont think it means the offer TSB made was unfair. 
Because of the above, I think the £50 TSB have offered to recognise Miss Ps upset is a fair 
one, considering Miss Ps upset was time limited due to the DDIC being successful which 
was raised on the advice of TSB. I appreciate this £50 showed in Miss Ps account before 
shed received TSBs final response but I cant say this was unfair for TSB to do as it 
ensured Miss P received her financial compensation as soon as possible.
I also recognise Miss P suffered a bereavement within the months before this error occurred 
and how her mental health may have been impacted by this. But I cant see any evidence to 
show TSB were made aware of this bereavement and were able to consider this as part of 
their response to her complaint. And even so, I dont think this shouldve led TSB to increase 
their offer as I think it already adequately recognises the direct impact their error caused. So, 
because of the above, I dont think TSB need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss P was hoping for. But I hope this decision goes 
some way to explaining why I think TSBs offer was fair on this occasion and provides Miss 
P with some form of closure.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman