DRN-3281691
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
handled a claim for storm damage to their property under their home insurance policy.
Reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a home contents and buildings insurance policy thats underwritten by 
RSA. In October 2020 rainwater came into their property, causing the hallway ceiling to 
collapse and damaging the walls and carpet. They contacted RSA who said someone would 
be in touch the next day. In between times Mr and Mrs B asked a roofing company to help 
minimise the damage, which they did. When Mr and Mrs B contacted RSA the next day, they 
were told the damage wouldnt be covered as it would be considered wear and tear. Later in 
the week RSA apologised for that call. It opened a claim and appointed a surveyor to inspect 
the property. By this time, the roofing company had returned and taken action to stop further 
rainwater penetration. 
In November 2020 RSA made an offer to settle the claim. The offer only covered the internal 
work and not the external work or floor coverings, so Mr and Mrs B rejected the offer. They 
also asked to see the report prepared by the surveyor as they wanted to challenge the 
decision not to pay for the external works. And they complained about the way RSA had 
handled the claim, particularly the poor communication theyd received.
RSA said its surveyor hadnt found any storm related damage and so had declined Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim for external damage. It explained the approach it takes when considering 
claims for storm damage. And explained why it didnt consider there were storm conditions 
around the time the damage was caused. RSA agreed the service Mr and Mrs B had 
received had fallen short of the standard expected and it offered them £100 by way of an 
apology.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy so brought their complaint to this service. They said theyd 
agreed to the settlement offer for the internal works but only on the condition RSA provide 
them with the surveyors report into the condition of the roof. They said the surveyor had 
given them a verbal assessment but nothing in writing.
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. He didnt think he could say there were 
definitely no storm conditions in the area at the time of the events complained about. But he 
didnt think the damage claimed was consistent with the damage a storm typically causes. 
So, he didnt think RSA needed to take any further action on the claim. But he thought RSA 
should increase the amount they paid Mr and Mrs B because of the poor customer service 
theyd received. In particular, RSAs communication about the surveyors report. He thought 
it should pay them a total of £200, so a further £100 in addition to the £100 RSA had already 
offered.
RSA didnt think a further £100 was justified. While Mr and Mrs B raised a number of issues, 
which I summarise below: 
RSA told them they wouldnt be covered without doing any checks, as if it was a 
predetermined outcome.
RSA failed to respond to any of their emails, other than responding to the complaint.
The surveyor made an assessment of the roof without anything to base this on.
The roofing company found no defects with his roof and concluded the problem had 
simply been the volume of rainfall over a prolonged period that caused the ingress.
The damage had occurred during storm Alex and they didnt understand how the 
conditions at the time werent considered sufficient to be a storm.
The terms and conditions dont explain how RSA assess when there have been 
storm conditions.
As neither RSA nor Mr and Mrs B agreed with the investigators view, the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
Mr and Mrs B think their property was damaged during a storm and they think they should be 
covered for this type of claim. So, Ive considered this, taking into account the policy terms 
and conditions.
As our investigator explained, when we look at storm damage cases, we ask three main 
questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
RSA said it understood that slight structural damage can occur when winds reach speeds of 
47mph or more. It said rain alone wont damage the external areas of a property but it 
accepts that rain of a certain intensity (16mm of rainfall an hour) can start to get inside. RSA 
said it had reviewed the weather information at the time Mr and Mrs B noticed the damage to 
their property, and also looked at data for the month beforehand. It said this showed 
maximum winds of 35mph during this time, and the highest intensity of rain was 3.4mm per 
hour. It said it didnt consider these to be storm conditions.
Mr and Mrs B are right to say their policy document is silent on the measures RSA use to 
assess whether or not there are storm conditions. Not all policies provide that detail. I dont 
think thats necessarily unreasonable and, in this case, RSA has explained what they 
consider to be storm conditions. That explanation seems fair and based on an approach 
similar to that taken by this service. 
Ive checked RSAs data against our own source of weather data. The data for the closest 
weather station to Mr and Mrs Bs property matches RSAs findings. The strongest wind 
recorded in the week before Mr and Mrs B discovered the damage was 35mph on 2 October 2020. This weather station recorded rainfall of 3.4mm per hour on 
24 September 2020. Both are well below the threshold set by RSA to meet its definition of 
storm conditions. 
Mr and Mrs B have mentioned storm Alex and I can see why they dont understand how 
RSA can say there werent storm conditions at the time their property was damaged even 
though there was a named storm causing damage across the UK at the same time. Ive 
looked at local news reports of the storm in Mr and Mrs Bs area. Ive also looked at the Met 
Offices website and its information for the 2020/21 storm season. This shows storm Alex hit 
the UK from 2 to 4 October 2020. But just because the weather was generally severe across 
the country at the time, it doesnt necessarily mean the wind speeds or rainfall in a particular 
area at a certain time were sufficiently severe to say there were storm conditions. 
So, Ive thought carefully about whether it was fair for RSA to say there werent storm 
conditions in the area Mr and Mrs B live at the time of the damage to their home. The Met 
Office analysis says in general this storm was more notable across the UK for rain than 
wind. The Met Office data shows wind speeds were strongest in the south-west of the UK 
and wind speeds in the area Mr and Mrs B live were consistent with the weather data that 
both RSA and I reviewed. So, I think it was fair for RSA to say the wind speeds in Mr and 
Mrs Bs area at the time of the damage didnt constitute storm conditions.
But what about the rainfall? Local news reports and the Met Office analysis indicate there 
was significant rainfall in the area Mr and Mrs B live on both 2 and 3 October 2020. That isnt 
consistent with the data RSA and I reviewed, which shows minimal rainfall in the area at the 
same time. That might be because much of the rainfall fell away from the weather station 
used by RSA, which was the one closest to Mr and Mrs B. I note that they live 12 miles from 
that weather station and weather conditions can often be very localised. So, on balance, I 
think its more likely than not there was a significant amount of rainfall in Mr and Mrs Bs area 
at the time the damage is said to have happened. 
The Met Office analysis also notes that The rainfall was sustained in duration but relatively 
modest in intensity with rain-rates generally less than 8mm per hour and mostly less than 
4mm per hour.  That is a generalisation of conditions across the UK at the time but its also 
consistent with local news reports of conditions at the time. 
RSA accepts that rainfall of a certain intensity can cause water to get inside properties, but it 
regards 16mm of rainfall per hour as being sufficiently intense to cause damage. RSA didnt 
think the rainfall in the area around Mr and Mrs B met that threshold. And, on balance, I think 
thats fair. I dont think the level of rainfall recorded  although sustained  should penetrate 
a well-maintained roof. Instead, its more likely to reveal existing damage.  
So in summary, and in light of the above, I think RSA acted reasonably in declining Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint on the basis there were no storm conditions on or around the date the 
damage is said to have happened. As Ive answered no to question 1, theres no need for 
me to go on to consider questions 2 and 3.
Further issues
Mr and Mrs B have also raised a number of other issues, which Ive summarised above. Ive 
read the roofing companys report and noted their belief that the damage was caused by a 
storm, specifically by the volume of rainfall. But as Ive decided RSA acted fairly in saying 
there were no storm conditions at the time, I dont need to go on to consider whether the 
damage was consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
RSA acknowledged it didnt handle Mr and Mrs Bs claim as well as it should. It apologised for the first call handler saying the damage wouldnt be covered under their policy without 
opening a claim or giving it due consideration. And it acknowledged it had taken too long to 
consider the claim and hadnt called Mr and Mrs B back when it said it would. 
Our investigator highlighted further poor service and thought RSA needed to do more to 
recognise the impact of that service, and I agree. As Mr and Mrs B said, the surveyor gave 
them a verbal assessment of the quality of their roof. They wanted that in writing but it never 
materialised. RSA said that was because there was no report to provide. It had declined the 
claim because it didnt think there were storm conditions at the time of the damage and so it 
didnt think it was necessary to go on to assess whether or not the damage was consistent 
with a storm. I think thats reasonable. As the claim was declined, it would be Mr and Mrs Bs 
responsibility to investigate the damage and pay for any repairs to the roof of their property.
What RSA did wrong was to fail to keep Mr and Mrs B up to date with how it was handling 
their claim and what information they should expect to receive. They said they sent a 
number of emails to RSA to chase progress but they didnt receive a response and I can 
understand how frustrating and upsetting that must have been. I think Mr and Mrs B were 
always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of this nature. But I 
think RSA added to that unnecessarily by failing to communicate with them clearly and 
consistently. And I think it needs to take responsibility for the impact of that poor service.
Putting things right
RSA has already offered to pay Mr and Mrs B £100 for the poor service its provided. But I 
think it needs to do more to reflect the impact of that poor service. And I think a total of £200 
would be a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs B a total 
of £200 to settle this complaint. If its already paid them £100, it should pay them a further 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman