DRN-4020396
The complaint
Mr H complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited decided to hold him responsible 
for a collision, unfairly, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H was involved in a collision when reversing out of a car parking space. He says a van 
driving the wrong way around the car park collided with the rear of his car. Mr H says the 
other driver initially admitted responsibility and offered to pay for the damages. However, he 
gave a false phone number and couldnt be contacted. 
Mr H reported the matter to Admiral. It contacted the third partys insurer holding its driver at 
fault. The third-party driver claimed there had been no contact between the two vehicles. 
Mr H provided Admiral with photos of the car park, highlighting the direction of travel and the 
third-partys van facing the wrong way. But Admiral decided Mr H was responsible for the 
incident. Mr H complained. In its response Admiral says as neither party accepts 
responsibility, it must consider the evidence and look at the likely outcome of court 
proceedings. It says it didnt think it would be successful if the matter went to court. 
In its response to Mr Hs complaint Admiral refers to the Highway code. More specifically, to 
the section about manoeuvring. It says the onus is on Mr H to ensure the way is clear to 
complete his manoeuvre.    
Mr H disagreed. He says Admiral failed to consider the position of the van in the photo he 
took, as well as the directional markings on the car park. Mr H says he did comply with the 
highway code when reversing. He thinks the van driver is clearly at fault for the collision. 
Because of this Mr H referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She thought Admiral had behaved fairly and 
in line with its policy terms when concluding a claim would likely be determined as Mr Hs 
fault. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Mr Hs policy terms to understand what Admiral is expected to do in these 
circumstances. The terms say:
Defending or settling a claim
We are entitled to:
-Conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf.
This is a common condition typical of most motor insurance policies. It effectively means 
Admiral can take over and decide how best to deal with the claim, including any decision on 
liability. We dont think this is unreasonable given that Admiral is ultimately responsible for 
paying the cost of any claim. However, we expect it to treat its customers fairly, which is 
what Ive considered here. 
I can see that Admiral wrote to the third partys insurer after Mr H reported the incident. It 
told the insurer it thought its driver was at fault. However, it responded to say its driver 
disputed Mr Hs account and said there was no contact between the vehicles. The insurer 
asked for supporting evidence that its driver was at fault as it didnt accept liability.  
Mr H provided photos of the location of the collision. This shows both vehicles, the damage 
to Mr Hs car and an arrow showing the expected direction of travel through the car park. 
However, Admiral highlights the lack of any CCTV footage or witnesses to the incident. It 
refers to the following excerpt from the Highway Code in its complaint response:
You should be aware of what is behind and to the sides before manoeuvring. Look behind 
you; use mirrors if they are fitted. When in traffic queues look out for pedestrians crossing 
between vehicles and vehicles emerging from junctions or changing lanes. Position yourself 
so that drivers in front can see you in their mirrors. Additionally, when filtering in slow-moving 
traffic, take care and keep your speed low."
I note Admirals comments that as there is contradicting testimony  and based on the 
evidence available - its experience indicates it wouldnt be successful if this matter 
proceeded to court.
I can see Mr H disputed Admirals view on the section of the Highway Code it highlighted. He 
says he took the necessary precautions before manoeuvring and it was the actions of the 
other driver that caused the collision. He also refers to a section of the code concerning 
dangerous driving, due care and attention, and reasonable consideration for other road 
users. Mr H says he has experience in matters such as these, which Admiral is aware of. He 
believes that Admiral is settling this matter incorrectly to save costs. 
Ive thought carefully about this point, in conjunction with all of the information Mr H 
provided. I have no reason to dispute his testimony. The photos he provided indicate the 
third partys van was travelling contrary to the directed route through the car park. 
We asked Admiral to comment further on this point. It says this was considered, but it 
doesnt alter the fact that Mr H was responsible for ensuring both directions were clear 
before manoeuvring. I acknowledge Mr Hs description of how he checked before 
manoeuvring. And his view that the third-partys reckless driving resulted in the collision.     
However, the policy terms allow Admiral to decide how best to deal with any given claim. It 
says that based on its experience of claims that proceed to court, the evidence it has to 
support Mr Hs version of events wouldnt result in a successful outcome. There is a cost 
involved in taking a claim to court. Admiral has to decide whether it has a reasonable chance 
of success before committing to incur these costs. Based on the limited evidence it had 
available to support Mr Hs testimony, I dont think Admirals decision was unreasonable.   Its not my role to determine who was at fault for the collision Mr H reported. But Im satisfied 
that Admiral considered the matter fairly and gave a reasonable explanation as to why it 
didnt think it was worthwhile disputing liability. 
Admiral confirms there is no at fault claim recorded against Mr H and there is currently no 
cost associated with this incident. It also says this hasnt impacted on Mr Hs no-claims.   
Im sorry Mr H felt let down by Admiral. I dont dispute his understanding of who is to blame 
for the collision. I can understand that this has caused him considerable frustration. But 
having considered all of this I dont think Admiral treated him unfairly when making the 
decision it did. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman