DRN-3077709
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc hasnt handled their claim for storm 
damage fairly.
Any reference to St Andrews includes the actions of its agents. And Ill refer to Mr T for 
ease.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive summarised whats 
happened below:
Mr and Mrs T have a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by St Andrews.
In February 2020, Mr T contacted St Andrews to make a claim for storm damage. 
St Andrews was satisfied that there were storm conditions at the time the damage 
occurred. 
It asked Mr T to provide two estimates for the repair works and explained a claims 
assessor would need to visit his property to inspect the damage. 
Mr T provided the estimates in June 2020  which is when the claim was reopened.
In its final response, St Andrews said the damage merely highlighted existing 
problems - such as wear and tear or maintenance issues. And that the damage 
wasnt consistent with that caused by a storm. 
St Andrews has said that before reaching a conclusion on the claim, it asked to visit 
Mr Ts property to accurately assess the damage, but Mr T hasnt agreed to this. And 
without doing so, it wont be able to reconsider his claim.
Mr T says hes refused a visit because hes concerned St Andrews is trying to avoid 
covering his claim. And as he believes he was told estimates were enough, he 
doesnt deem it necessary. 
St Andrews paid £150 compensation to Mr T for the distress, inconvenience and 
confusion the claim might have caused. 
Mr T remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigator considered it and said: St Andrews had made it clear at the outset 
that a claims assessor would need to attend; insurers are entitled to ask for more 
information to validate a claim and so it was reasonable for St Andrews to want to 
attend his property to survey the damage; the compensation is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr T remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken in to account the requirements set by the Regulator, which include that 
insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim.  
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
As it stands, St Andrews has said its unable to cover Mr Ts claim because its not satisfied 
the damage is consistent with that caused by a storm. But it has said, it would like to attend 
Mr Ts property to accurately assess the damage and consider the claim.  So, the crux of this 
complaint is whether its fair and reasonable for St Andrews to want to attend Mr Ts 
property to assess the damage in order to validate the claim. 
The starting point in deciding this is the policy document - which says:
You must provide us with any information and assistance that we may reasonable 
require about any claim. 
This makes it clear there is an obligation on Mr T to assist St Andrews in its handling of the 
claim.  Ive considered whether asking to attend Mr Ts property to inspect the damage is a 
reasonable request  and Im satisfied it is. I say this because, first, St Andrews is 
concerned the damage isnt consistent with that caused by a storm  and instead consider 
the cause to be wear and tear - which would be excluded under the policy. 
Second, Mr T has said that the damage is such that it may be necessary to replace the 
entire roof. Given this would be at a greater expense to St Andrews  and far exceeds what 
Mr T thought the original cost to repair might be - I think its reasonable that St Andrews 
would want to attend the property to satisfy itself the damage is covered under the policy. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I havent seen that Mr T was told providing estimates alone 
would be enough. St Andrews said a claims assessor would need to attend the property 
during the initial call and Mr T seemed agreeable to this at the time. In any event, when new 
information comes to light, its reasonable for an insurer to reconsider a claim and request 
further information to determine if its valid. 
Im satisfied that St Andrews request to attend Mr Ts property to assess the damage is fair 
and reasonable, and so Ill leave it up to Mr T to decide if he wants to agree to this in order to 
move his claim forwards. 
I appreciate this situation has been stressful for Mr T but I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that St Andrews needs to increase its offer of compensation, and so I wont be asking it 
to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Nicola BeakhustOmbudsman