DRN-4247386
Complaint
Mr B has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says
L2G irresponsibly lent him this loan.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr Bs representative 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr B with a loan for £250 in January 2020. It had an APR of 1,013.2% and 
was to due be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £57.14, which meant the total amount to 
be repaid was £1,028.52. 
L2G says it agreed to Mr Bs application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
on Mr B. The information Mr B provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be
able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. But it, in any event,
adjusted Mr Bs declarations to account for what its verification checks showed and and this 
left enough for Mr B to be able to make his payments. L2G says, in these circumstances it 
was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr Bs representative has said Mr B shouldnt 
have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is that 
this was Mr Bs first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr B was asked 
to provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it was told.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing too much in 
the way of recent payment difficulties,  Mr Bs lack of any previous lending with L2G and the 
low monthly repayments, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to rely on the payments 
being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. 
I accept that its possible Mr Bs actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information 
gathered. I know that Mr B has provide a copy of an alternative credit search which showed 
his financial position was worse than hed let on. And I know he, at least told L2G that he, 
had a change in circumstances shortly after he took out this loan.  
But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Mr B - it carried out reasonable checks even though its possible the 
information it was provided with may not have told the whole story. 
L2G reasonably relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments involved 
and its lack of previous history with Mr B, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide 
this loan  especially as I havent been provided with clear evidence demonstrating that 
further checks would have shown the low monthly payments here to have been 
unaffordable. Furthermore, L2G cant have anticipated Mr Bs circumstances changing in the 
way he later informed it that they had done.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman