DRN-3878091
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Victoria Asset 
Finance collected direct debit payments for his hire agreement.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In February 2017 Mr G acquired an item via a hire agreement and agreed to make quarterly 
payments by direct debit. In March 2020 the account was sold to Link which took over 
responsibility for collecting the payments by direct debit from August 2020.
Link took the first payment in September 2020 but failed to collect follow up payments from 
Mr G from that point. As a result, arrears of around £588.32 built up.
Mr G says Link went on to collect the full arrears balance by direct debit without warning him 
first. Link started collecting normal quarterly payments from that time.
Mr G complained and Link partially upheld his complaint. Link offered to refund the £588.32 
payment itd taken and agree a repayment plan to suit Mr G. Link also said it would waive 
the remaining £11 of arrears it had failed to collect and offered to terminate the hire 
agreement early without penalty. In a follow up response, Link offered to cover any bank 
charges Mr G had incurred as a result of the unexpected arrears payment it took on 27 
January 2022.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint. They said Link should ensure the 
remaining £11 arrears is written off and ask Mr G if he wants to proceed with the agreement, 
purchase the item or return it. The investigator said if Mr G wanted to continue with the 
agreement, Link should pay him £149.88, an amount equivalent to the cancellation penalty.
Mr G asked to appeal and said Link had used two separate direct debits to collect payments 
without providing adequate notice. Mr G also said Links actions had placed him into 
financial hardship and that the issues raised had taken a lot of time to deal with. Mr G said 
he wanted Link to settle the complaint by allowing him to retain the hired item and receive 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. As Mr G asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr G is frustrated at Links actions. Mr G agreed to make quarterly 
payments by direct debit. And after Link acquired the account, it only took a single direct 
debit payment before it stopped. It could be argued that Mr G ought to have noticed. But Im 
not persuaded thats reasonable. The frequency of the direct debit collection was quarterly, 
so it wasnt something Mr G saw leaving his account each month. And the amount was 
reasonably modest at £149.88. In addition, Links error persisted for a long time before the 
issue came up.
Ive found Links explanations confusing at times. Links made various arguments about how 
many direct debits were in place. But I think its clear a number of errors were made in terms 
of how direct debits were claimed. First, Link forgot to collect the payments due under its hire 
agreement. Then, when the arrears were found, it set up another direct debit to collect the 
amount in full. Ive seen the correspondence Link sent Mr G but didnt see anything that 
gave prior notice of its intention to collect the full arrears amount. Thats a step Links 
required to take. In addition, given how much higher the arrears payment was, Im satisfied it
was unfair of Link to collect £588.32 without first warning Mr G.
Links confirmed it failed to collect enough to clear the full arrears but has agreed to waive 
the remaining £11. Im satisfied thats fair.
Link has also offered to waive the three month penalty normally applied when ending the 
hire agreement if Mr G wants to terminate it. Given the history of Mr Gs case, I think thats a 
fair approach.
Mr Gs told us the unexpected collection of £588.32 caused financial hardship, but hasnt 
given us lots of specific details. And I can see Link offered to cover any fees and bank 
charges Mr G mayve incurred as a result. Without specific details and evidence to show the 
financial difficulties Mr G experienced, Im unable to make an award to cover losses he 
mayve incurred.
That being said, I can see the issues raised have been ongoing for a long time. And the 
starting point for the problems Mr G has experienced was when Link stopped collecting 
direct debit payments after September 2020. In addition to that, I accept that Mr G was 
shocked to find such a large arrears payment being collected by a direct debit without 
reasonable warning. I agree the issues raised have been time consuming and caused Mr G 
a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience. So I intend to tell Link to pay Mr G £200 to 
reflect the trouble and upset caused.
In response to the investigator, Mr G said he should be allowed to retain the hired item as 
part of the settlement. But the hire agreement doesnt include any rights to retain the item 
hired without agreeing to purchase it from the business. Im not persuaded that Mr Gs 
suggestion is a fair way to resolve his complaint.
Finally, neither party has raised the issue of Mr Gs credit file. But I want to ensure theres no 
long term issues as a result of the way payments were collected. So, if Link has reported any 
arrears or adverse information about the hire agreement from September 2020 onwards on 
Mr Gs credit file, it will need to remove it.
Link responded and confirmed it was willing to settle in line with the provisional decision. 
Link explained that if it refunded the payment it took Mr G and agreed a repayment plan 
would be unable to proceed with termination until its repaid. Link agreed that if Mr G wanted 
to terminate it would do so without fee and also confirmed it the £11 arrears had been 
removed from the account. 
Mr G responded and provided a copy of his bank statement that showed he was overdrawn 
at the time Link took its direct debit. Mr G reiterated his request to pay around £188 to buy 
the item and end the agreement. Finally, Mr G said no comment had been made about the 
legality of Links actions and that he was concerned about the wider impact to other 
customers. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Gs bank statement and can see he was overdrawn when the funds were 
debited in January 2022. But the account was already in an overdrawn position when the 
direct debit was collected and was returned to a credit position when a deposit was made 
around four days later. Mr G hasnt provided any evidence of fees or costs hes incurred as a 
direct result of the payment Link collected. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I havent seen 
evidence that shows a financial loss in this case. 
Mr Gs asked that Link to accept around £188 to purchase the item and end the agreement. 
Link has confirmed Mr G has the option of purchasing the item in place of returning it at 
termination of the agreement. If Mr G wishes to proceed on that basis, Link has confirmed it 
can obtain an up to date valuation for him. I note Mr Gs view of what he feels is fair to pay, 
but Im satisfied its fair for Link to require a specific valuation when deciding on how to 
proceed. I leave it to Mr G to decide whether he wishes to continue the agreement, return 
the item or purchase it after an up to date valuation is provided. 
Mr Gs also told us hes concerned the issues hes experienced could impact other 
customers. But we deal with complaints individually, on a fair and reasonable basis. I can 
only comment on how the issues raised have impacted Mr G. For the reasons given above 
and in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that the fairest approach is to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint and direct Link to settle as follows: 
- If Mr G wishes, refund the £588.32 and agree a suitable repayment plan
- If Mr G wishes to terminate the hire agreement, allow him to do so without penalty
- Write off remaining arrears balance of £11
- Pay Mr G £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
- Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file from September 2020
to date
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Link Financial Outsourcing Limited 
trading as Victoria Asset Finance to settle in line with the above guidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman