DRN-3188788
The complaint
Mr S and Ms S are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim. Theyre also unhappy about how UKI has handled their claim.
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.  
What happened
Mr S and Ms S have a travel insurance policy alongside their current account. The policy is 
underwritten by UKI. 
On 5 March 2020, they booked accommodation within the UK. Their plan was to go on the 
trip with their family and their intended dates of travel were from 10 April to 17 April 2020. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the trip was cancelled. The accommodation provider offered 
them the option of rebooking and provided a voucher that was valid for 12 months. 
Mr S and Ms S submitted a claim to UKI for the cost of the accommodation. UKI assessed 
the claim but declined it as the offer to rebook within the next 12 months meant that the cost 
was recoverable and therefore Mr S and Ms S hadnt suffered a financial loss. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr S and Ms S referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. He said he didnt think they had suffered a loss that couldnt be 
recovered. He explained that the terms of the voucher werent so restrictive in making the 
future booking and the accommodation provider also increased the time for Mr S and Ms S 
to rebook to February 2022. He therefore didnt think UKI had unfairly declined Mr S and Ms 
S claim. 
Our investigator also said delays and further stress were caused because of the way UKI 
had handled Mr S and Ms S claim. He therefore recommended UKI award them £75 in 
recognition that it could have provided better service. 
UKI accepted the investigators assessment. Mr S and Ms S didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
Mr S and Ms S say they were bound by strict times during the year at which they could book 
the accommodation as they have school-age children. Also some of school holidays were 
impacted by the UK national lockdown and they therefore had limited time periods to rebook. 
They also expressed that taking their children during winter times wasnt the same as the 
booking theyd made during April 2020. Additionally, they say the insurer has put the burden 
on themselves and on the accommodation provider despite the policy saying cover for 
cancellation would be provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr S and Ms S complaint. 
The policy terms and conditions 
Page 20 of the policy booklet, Section A  Cancelling your trip (before you are due to start 
your trip) sets out what is covered in the event of a trip being cancelled. This says that cover 
will be provided for unused accommodation in the event a trip has to be cancelled due to 
Foreign and Commonwealth advice against all but essential travel, and due to there being a 
natural disaster. 
Natural disaster is defined in the policy booklet as fire, storm, lightning, avalanche, 
explosion, hurricane, earthquake, flood, tidal wave, medical epidemic or pandemic.
In other words, for the situation that Mr S and Ms S found themselves in, the policy would 
provide cover. 
However, the next part of that same section sets out What is not covered. This says, 
amongst other things:
We will not cover:

any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere;

Should the claim be declined?
Mr S and Ms S received a voucher which was valid for up to 12 months. They were given the 
option rebook their stay in the same accommodation and in the same location. This voucher 
had the time limit increased later for a further period up until February 2022. This meant that 
they had overall from April 2020 to February 2022 to rebook their trip. In considering the 
options Mr S and Ms S had with the voucher they were given, I dont think the terms of this 
voucher was particularly limiting or that it was so restrictive. 
Generally, unless the terms of the offer are unreasonably restrictive and/or the consumer
has exceptional circumstances, Id consider the option to book at a future date to mean the
policyholder has recovered their costs from elsewhere.
I appreciate Mr S and Ms S comments that they were limited to booking the accommodation 
during school holidays and there were times when the accommodation was unavailable. 
They therefore hadnt been able to book the accommodation. I understand that this must 
have been challenging. But Ive considered the communication between Mr S and Ms S and 
the accommodation provider. This shows that the provider was open to working with them so 
they could make the booking at a time that was convenient for Mr S and Ms S and to fit in 
with the school holidays. The provider also extended the voucher from the initial 12 months 
to until February 2022. While I acknowledge that Mr S and Ms S didnt want to go during the 
winter months and they could only book during the school holidays, I think, based on the 
communication between the two parties, they still had opportunities from April 2020 to make 
the booking. 
Ive taken into consideration that Mr S and Ms S say they have a policy that provides cover 
for their cancellation. I agree but, as Ive explained above, the policy is also clear in that 
theres no cover if the costs are recoverable elsewhere. So, while I understand that Mr S and 
Ms S believe they are covered under their policy, under the terms and conditions of their 
policy, in the circumstances here, I dont think UKI treated them unfairly in declining their 
claim. This is because they have had the option of a future booking which hasnt been so restrictive and theyve had this option open to them for almost two years.
As it stands, the voucher remains valid and there is still the opportunity for Mr S and Ms S to 
make use of it. Mr S and Ms S have a travel policy in return for certain risks to be insured. 
Unfortunately, the scenario thats presented itself and the individual circumstances of this 
complaint means they have no cover as the cost was shown to be recoverable and Im 
satisfied its not unreasonable for UKI to decline the claim.
UKIs handling of the claim
Mr S and Ms S have said they were unhappy with how UKI has handled their claim. They 
say delays were caused in getting their claim looked at and there was a lack of updates 
provided to them. I can see in recognition of this poor service, UKI has agreed to award a 
payment of £75. 
Ive considered what happened and understand the way their claim was handled could have 
been better both in terms of the lack of updates, the confusion caused in communicating 
whether or not the claim would be accepted and, also the time it took to deal with it. 
Im satisfied that £75 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for the poor service 
provided to Mr S and Ms S. 
Conclusion
Overall, taking everything into account and in all the circumstances of this complaint, Im not 
persuaded that UKI declined Mr S and Ms S claim unfairly. I also think £75 is a fair amount 
of compensation for the level of service UKI provided to Mr S and Ms S. 
If UKI hasnt already made the £75 payment to Mr S and Ms S, it should now do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr S and Ms S complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman