DRN-2716737
Complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard [Barclays] mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
 
Background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mr G took out in 2005. It was added to his 
account during a telephone conversation with an advisor. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Barclays didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint because I dont think Barclays adequately took into 
account his circumstances when recommending the PPI. Ill explain why.
Barclays has said it would have recommended the PPI to Mr G. This means it had to check 
that the policy was right for him. So, it was Barclays responsibility to ask Mr G sufficient 
questions about his circumstances to ensure the policy was suitable for him. And if it had 
identified something about Mr Gs circumstances that would mean the policy might not be 
right for him, it needed to tell him that the policy might not be suitable for his needs because 
of this. 
I can see the policy wouldnt cover claims for medical conditions, which the policy holder 
knew about at the time of sale. Mr G has told us that in 1994, he was diagnosed with a 
medical condition which required ongoing medical treatment - including medication and 
regular check-ups with his Doctor. Hes also given us details about how the condition 
affected his general health and fitness. So, I dont think I need anything else to persuade me 
that he had an existing medical condition at the time of sale.
Based on what Mr G has told us about his medical condition, Im satisfied that the most likely 
reason why Mr G would need to claim under the policy wouldnt be covered. Barclays should 
have taken this into consideration when making its recommendation. I cant see that it did 
this.
Barclays has provided a copy of the call script it says would have been used at the time it 
phoned Mr G and he took out the PPI, but has been unable to provide a copy of how Mr G 
answered at the time of the sale. I therefore dont know what exactly was discussed during 
the telephone call, but I do know Barclays recommended the PPI, which is the likely reason 
Mr G agreed to take out the policy.
Ive carefully considered Mr Gs position. Given the nature of his ongoing medical condition, 
and what Mr Gs said about the impact it had on his day-to-day life at the time he was 
advised to take out the policy, I dont think Barclays should have recommended the policy to 
him. And I dont think Mr G would have bought the PPI if Barclays had pointed out that it 
wasnt right for him because of his medical condition. Based on what Ive seen, I think it is 
more likely than not that had Mr G understood he wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful claim in relation to his condition, he wouldnt have taken the policy. He would 
have in effect be paying for a policy, but only benefitting from a reduced level of cover. So, I 
do think Mr G has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong. 
Barclays has told us that it thinks Mr Gs condition was well-controlled as he never needed to 
claim under the policy or had any time off of work because of his condition. Barclays has 
also said it doesnt think it did anything wrong when recommending the PPI to Mr G, as he 
could have claimed under the rest of the policy and for other medical conditions. 
Having thought about what Barclays has said, I dont think this shows the recommendation it 
gave Mr G in 2005, was suitable. As stated above, Mr G was suffering from a long-term 
medical condition, which wouldnt have been covered had Mr G needed to claim. Given the 
nature of this condition and its impact on his health at the time of sale, I dont think Mr G 
would have agreed to take out the policy had he been told he couldnt claim for his condition.
It follows that I uphold this complaint.
 
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr G would have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr G owed when he closed 
his account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr G would have 
owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year
C. If  when Barclays works out what Mr G would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
G paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mr G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr G 
would have owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.D. Barclays should tell Mr G what its done to work out A, B and C.
I can see that Barclays has already paid Mr G compensation for undisclosed commission on 
the premiums he paid for his PPI policy. Barclays can take off this amount from the 
additional redress due.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman