DRN-3539426
The complaint
Miss N complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt refunded a payment she made using her debit 
card. 
What happened
In June 2020, Miss N completed an online application for her brother. The application was 
for a modelling photoshoot to assess whether he could make it as a successful model. The 
modelling company (who Ill refer to as L) responded to say his application had been 
successful and invited him to a free photoshoot where they would assess his suitability for 
modelling. Miss Ns brother was asked to pay a £50 refundable deposit to secure his 
photoshoot session. 
Miss N says she attended the photoshoot with her brother. She says that L told them that 
her brother had passed the photoshoot and would be able to get paid modelling work. 
Miss N says that L told them that they would need to sign up to a modelling package with 
them and the bigger the package they signed up for, the more paid modelling work they 
would get. They agreed to purchase a package costing £7,750. 
The contract was signed by Miss N, her brother and their mother, who had all contributed to 
the total cost of the package. Miss N paid £3,000 using her Metro Bank debit card. The 
contract said that they had agreed to purchase: A digital Z card, an online portfolio, an 
agency list and photographs on a disc.
Miss N says that around two weeks after the photoshoot they hadnt been sent any 
modelling work, so they tried to contact L. However, they said their emails went unanswered 
and when they turned up at the studio it was closed. 
In August 2020, Miss N complained to Metro Bank to see if it could help her get a refund of 
her money. Metro Bank asked Miss N for some further information regarding the transaction 
to see if it could help her. Miss N said that she believed she and her brother had been 
victims of a scam and that the promised work hadnt been provided. 
Metro Bank said it couldnt assist her through the chargeback scheme because it said that 
she had received everything that L had agreed to provide her brother within the signed 
contract. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said that Metro Bank ought to 
have attempted a chargeback given that Miss N had indicated she had been the victim of a 
scam and what she had described indicated that the services had been misrepresented by 
L. He said the high cost of the package and the way it was sold suggested that it was more 
likely than not Miss Ns brother was promised paid modelling work. He said the 
circumstances in this case mirrored well documented and publicised modelling scams and 
that Miss N had also reported her concerns to Action Fraud, Citizens Advice and the police. 
He said all of this ought to have prompted Metro Bank to have attempted a chargeback. He 
said had it done so, it was likely to have succeeded and Metro Bank should therefore refund 
the £3,000 Miss N paid, adding 8% simple interest per year to the refund.
Metro Bank didnt agree. It said based on the evidence provided by Miss N, it wasnt 
satisfied that any chargeback would be successful, it therefore didnt process one. It said it 
wasnt under any obligation to do so, as access to the chargeback scheme isnt a consumer 
right. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N told Metro Bank that she believed shed been the victim of a scam and wanted help 
in getting her money back. As the payment was made using Miss Ns Metro Bank debit card, 
Ive thought about whether Metro Bank dealt with her request fairly. 
Metro Bank could have attempted to recover Miss Ns payment using the chargeback 
process. Chargeback provides a mechanism for Metro Bank to ask for a payment Miss N 
made to be refunded, but only in a limited set of circumstances. What circumstances apply 
are set out in the relevant card scheme rules. Metro Bank has to abide by these rules when 
processing a chargeback.
One of the circumstances that Metro Bank could seek a refund of Miss Ns payment is where 
the goods or services she purchased were not as described. In this case, Miss N says that 
the services were misrepresented to her (in other words, not as described). She says that 
her brother was promised paid modelling work, in addition to the items listed in the signed 
contract. She says this is the reason they agreed to pay such a large sum of money. 
Metro Bank says it isnt obligated to initiate a chargeback and I agree. However, I would 
consider it good practice for it to do so where a chargeback right existed and where there 
was a reasonable prospect of success. Further, where there are allegations of a scam, it 
would be good practice for Metro Bank to have brought this to the attention of Ls bank and 
the card scheme by way of a chargeback. 
Given that Miss N was concerned shed been the victim of a scam and that what shed 
described matched the circumstances of a known scam, I think Metro Bank acted unfairly in 
not attempting a chargeback for her. 
Metro Bank says the signed contract makes no mention of paid modelling work and I agree.  
However, the card scheme rules dont limit a chargeback to what is listed on the written 
contract only. Miss N provided Metro Bank with copies of the initial and after-sales emails 
her brother received from L. Prior to the photoshoot, its clear the purpose of the photoshoot 
was to establish suitability for a modelling career and that successful applicants would get 
paid work. In one email L says in a matter of 2-3 weeks you should be getting some work 
coming in. All our packages come with after-care. The emails made it sound as if Miss Ns 
brother was already exclusively selected for very limited spaces and that this was a unique 
opportunity to start a modelling career. While the emails and contract stopped short of 
guaranteeing paid modelling work, I think this was strongly implied within the emails. 
Given what Miss N has described took place, what Ive mentioned about the pre-shoot 
emails and what this service has seen previously of similar modelling scams (as well as 
those publicised in the media), Im persuaded that L did more likely than not promise paid 
work to Miss Ns brother. They paid a significant sum of money, nearly £8,000, for what the 
contract describes as photographs, a basic modelling website, a list of agents and an online 
business card. I find it very unlikely that they would have paid this amount of money unless there was also the promise of guaranteed paid work. Further, Ive seen copies of emails 
Miss Ns brother sent to L chasing up responses as hed not heard anything from them 
regarding work. It seems likely therefore that he was promised work as his actions after the 
photoshoot are consistent with what he and Miss N say they were told.  
While a chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund, as L could have defended it, ultimately the 
chargeback outcome could have been arbitrated by the card scheme itself. As it is no longer 
possible to issue a chargeback (as the required time limits have passed), Ive therefore 
thought about what I think is most likely to have happened had Metro Bank initiated a 
chargeback and robustly pursued it through the whole chargeback process if necessary.
By not attempting the chargeback, I think Metro Bank has unfairly deprived Miss N of the 
opportunity of potentially having her money refunded. Given what Ive set out above about 
the relevant circumstances and evidence provided by Miss N, Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not that the chargeback would have succeeded at some stage if it had been 
robustly pursued as far as possible. For these reasons, I think Metro Bank should now 
refund the payment Miss N made. As shes been deprived of those funds, it should also add 
8% simple interest per year on the refund from the date it declined her request for a 
chargeback. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund Miss N £3,000, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date it rejected 
her chargeback request to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman