DRN-1511528
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in December 2005. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a plan known as a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can 
be split into three sections: Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), Life Cover 
and Critical Illness Cover (CIC). Mr and Mrs J have complained about the MPPI cover.
The policy cost £42.45 each month and it covered Mr and Mrs J in the event that either of 
them lost their job and were unemployed or couldnt work due to an accident or sickness. It 
wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £714.72 for up to 12 months following a successful 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Js case. Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax doesnt still have all the paperwork that was completed at the time of this sale, but 
this isnt surprising given that the sale took place nearly 15 years ago, and the mortgage is 
now redeemed. But the bank has provided screenshots from its computer systems that show 
that Mr and Mrs J answered a number of questions about their personal circumstances 
which related to the sale of PPI cover.
So it seems as if PPI was discussed with Mr and Mrs J at the time. And from what I know of 
Halifaxs sales processes then, I dont think its likely that it would have added this cover 
without getting their agreement to take it.
I think Halifax personally recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. That meant Halifax needed 
to take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what steps it took, I think 
the PPI it recommended was right for them in any case, taking into account the policy 
benefits, cost of cover and their broader financial circumstances at that time. And I dont 
think its likely that they wouldve acted differently; and not taken out the policy, if theyd been 
better advised and informed.
I say this because:
 The policy covered Mr and Mrs J and given their circumstances at the time of the 
sale, (and taking account of the policy conditions), I am satisfied they were both 
eligible for the cover.
 
Their circumstances do not suggest that they wouldve been affected by any of the 
significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements  they told us they were both 
employed and in good health  so they could expect to benefit from the full extent of 
the cover provided by this policy.
 
Whilst Mr and Mrs J received some occupational benefits, this does not automatically 
mean that the policy was unsuitable. This is because if they were they unable to 
work, the MPPI was intended to remove the additional pressure of maintaining 
mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a difficult time. And of course, the 
benefit this policy wouldve provided would be in addition to their occupational sick 
pay and wouldve lasted for longer than Mr Js occupational sick pay.
 
Mr and Mrs J told us they had some savings  but the policy would also have allowed 
Mr and Mrs J to leave these savings for the purpose that theyd intended as well as 
other essential expenses at what is likely to be a difficult time financially if either of 
them wasnt working.
 
Mr and Mrs Js mortgage represented a significant debt - £196,000 over 25 years  
and there would be serious implications for them if they were unable to make the 
mortgage repayments. It is reasonable to think someone in their situation would want 
to make sure they were protected, if they faced the unfortunate situation of being 
unable to work for an extended period of time.
 
So, Im satisfied that if a recommendation was made, the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for someone in their circumstances.
Halifax also needed to give Mr and Mrs J enough information about the PPI policy for them 
to decide if they wanted to take it out. I think its possible that the information it gave them 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about taking it. I think they would still have thought it gave them a useful benefit at an 
affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs J have lost out because of how 
Halifax sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Andrew MacnamaraOmbudsman