DRN-4176903
The complaint
Mr S complains about his home emergency policy with British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas). The complaint is about how British Gas responded to a problem with his boiler. 
References to British Gas in this decision include their agents who provide services under 
the policy.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr S had a problem with his boiler, which developed a leak. The boiler had 
been installed by British Gas in 2006. Two different engineers attended and said a repair 
would be possible, involving replacement of the heat exchanger. But it would be expensive 
and follow up repairs would be likely to be needed. 
Given the age of the boiler, they suggested Mr S consider a new boiler. A quote for a new 
boiler was provided (£2,660 after application of a £250 discount). However, Mr S said this 
was too expensive, unless the quote was reduced to around £2,000. If that couldnt be done, 
he wanted the boiler to be repaired. British Gas said they couldnt reduce the quote to this 
figure, so Mr S asked for the repair to go ahead.
An engineer then attended to assess the replacement of the heat exchanger. However, he 
couldnt access the relevant part of the boiler as kitchen units had been fitted around the 
sides and top of the boiler. Mr S was told replacement of the heat exchanger could be 
carried out  but it was his responsibility to enable access to replace the heat exchanger (by 
dismantling and removing the adjoining units). British Gas said he wasnt prepared to do this.
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr S complained to British Gas. But they didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response they referred to the discussion about a potential new boiler 
and to the issue of access to carry out the repair to the boiler. On the latter point, they 
referred to the policy terms and conditions about any faults (or design faults) that prevented 
access because part of the [central heating] system had been permanently built over. So, 
while they were prepared to replace the heat exchanger, access would have to be provided 
(by Mr S) for the work to be carried out.
Mr S then complained to this service. He was unhappy at British Gas refusing to 
repair his boiler because the part needing replacement was hard to remove given its 
location by the units (even though British Gas installed the boiler). He thought his 
policy should cover the repair and British Gas were trying to get him to buy a new 
boiler to avoid an expensive repair.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. From the evidence available, 
the investigator thought Mr Ss boiler didnt have the clearance between the boiler 
and the adjoining kitchen units advised by the manufacturer. And the evidence 
indicated the kitchen (the units) had been changed since the boiler was installed.
Mr S provided further information and evidence about the clearance between the 
boiler and the adjoining units, leading the investigator to issue a second view, 
upholding the complaint. The further information and evidence indicated there was 
the required clearance to the cupboard adjacent to the boiler. So, if the cupboard 
needed to be removed to carry out the repair work, British Gas would need to arrange 
this at their own expense. To put things right, British Gas should carry out the repair 
(quickly, to avoid any further delays). Given the delays in carrying out the repair, 
British Gas should also pay Mr S £250 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed suffered.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. They said Mr S would still need to make access for 
their engineers to carry out the repair by removing the panel (false cover) above the 
boiler. Which is what their engineers had said he needed to do. Once this was done, 
they would carry out the work to replace the heat exchanger. Their engineers would 
not unscrew panels or cupboards  that was Mr Ss responsibility. They added Mr S 
had initially indicated he was willing to do this, they would have carried out the work at 
that point. Mr S (subsequently) saying he wasnt prepared to do this had caused the 
delay  so it was unfair for them to be asked to pay him compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in Mr Ss complaint is how British Gas have dealt with the leak to his boiler 
and the consequent repair (replacement of the heat exchanger). Mr S is unhappy at British 
Gas refusing to carry out the repair until Mr S makes the access necessary for the repair to 
be carried out. British Gas say they will carry out the repair  but only when Mr S provides 
the access (by removing the cover from above the boiler.
In his complaint to this service, Mr S was also unhappy at what he considers to be their 
attempt to sell him a replacement boiler, to avoid what could be an expensive repair. Looking 
at what happened on this point, it appears British Gas offered to replace the boiler, quoting a 
cost of £2,660 after applying a £250 discount). Mr S wasnt prepared to accept this offer, 
saying he wanted the quote to be around £2,000. British Gas said they couldnt meet this 
figure. As provision of a replacement boiler at separate cost would be a separate service 
(and contract) and not one provided under the home emergency policy, this isnt something 
that would fall within the remit of this service. It would be a commercial decision for British 
Gas on what terms (including the cost) they would be willing to offer the service (and for Mr 
S to decide whether to accept those terms). 
For these reasons, I havent considered this issue any further.
Coming back to the issue of the repair of his boiler, from what Ive seen, British Gas say they 
will carry out the repair  but only once Mr S provides the access for their engineer to work 
on the boiler and replace the heat exchanger. From the photographs and other evidence 
available, it seems the issue of access isnt (now) to do with the cupboards adjacent to the 
boiler. They appear to be at least 5mm from the boiler, which is the minimum distance set 
out in the guidance from the boiler manufacturer. 
That being the case, the issue seems to be with the panel (false cover) above the boiler. In 
their final response, while British Gas refer to the cupboard to the left (looking at) the boiler, 
they refer to the following extract from the policy terms and conditions (with the key condition 
highlighted in the final response):Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over.
In the specific circumstances of this case, the issue is the position of the kitchen units 
(including the panel/false cover) immediately next to the boiler. British Gas say their 
engineers are not trained kitchen-fitters so its not their responsibility to dismantle, or 
otherwise remove, kitchen units. Nor are they insured to do so (should they cause damage 
whilst dismantling or removing units). I can understand this view, and that kitchen cupboards 
(such as those attached to the wall, as in this case) would be reasonably held to be 
something that would constitute something permanently built over. 
But in this case, as Ive set out, the issue isnt now to do with the kitchen units on the left (or 
both) side of the boiler. Its the panel (false cover) above the boiler. Ive thought about 
whether this would fall under the definition above (so wouldnt be the responsibility of British 
Gas to remove to create access). From what Ive seen, the panel (false cover) is there to 
cover what would otherwise be a gap above the boiler. It isnt a cupboard (hence its a panel, 
or false cover). It seems clear the intention is to enable access above the boiler to be 
secured relatively quickly and easily (by simply undoing the retaining screws holding the 
panel in place). It doesnt involve having to dismantle a cupboard (or other, substantial 
fittings).
Ive also seen reference in the evidence and information available in this case, that the panel 
has been previously removed by British Gas engineers when theyve been carrying out 
annual servicing of the boiler. Which suggests to me there hasnt previously been an issue 
with its removal to enable work to be carried out on the boiler. Ive not seen anything from 
British Gas challenging or disputing this has been the case. 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded British Gas havent acted fairly and reasonably 
in saying they wont carry out the repair until Mr S agrees to create the necessary access, 
specifically the removal of the panel (false cover) over the boiler. Even if, as they say, Mr S 
wont remove it (even though British Gas said he originally agreed to do so).
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered what British Gas should do to put things 
right. As theyve agreed to carry out the repair (replace the heat exchanger) they should now 
do so, if necessary by removing the panel (false cover) above the boiler to create the 
necessary access to carry out the repair.
Given the delays this issue has caused, Ive also considered the impact on Mr S. Not having 
his boiler repaired earlier has caused him distress and inconvenience (and the boiler 
leaking). Considering all the circumstances of the case, I think £250 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Carry out the repair (replace the heat exchanger) as theyve agreed to do, if 
necessary by removing the panel (false cover) above the boiler to create the 
necessary access to carry out the repair.Pay Mr S £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman