DRN-1605921
The complaint
Mr A complains about Lloyds Bank Plc and the way they reported his promotional rate of 
interest on his credit file.
What happened
Mr A took out a credit card with Lloyds that included a promotional rate of interest until 
December 2019. He set up a direct debit to ensure his monthly minimum payment was 
made. 
Mr A became aware when he checked his credit file that Lloyds had not reported that his 
account held a promotional rate of interest for the months July 2018 and March 2019. Mr A 
complained about this as he was concerned this may impact his ability to secure future 
credit. He said that as he mainly paid only the minimum amount, through choice, other 
lenders may this as a sign of financial difficulty if they were unable to see that his account 
contained a promotional rate.
Lloyds responded saying that while they didnt think the promotional rate being reported 
would affect Mr As chances of securing future credit, they agreed theyd reported it 
inconsistently. So, they paid Mr A £75 to acknowledge the worry this caused and agreed to 
amend the credit file. Mr A checked his credit file following this and found that the 
promotional rate had not been reported correctly for August 2019. He was unhappy that 
Lloyds had failed to carry out the offer they made, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He agreed that Lloyds had 
reported Mr As promotional rate inconsistently. But, he didnt think this would affect Mr As 
ability to secure future credit. He explained that he hadnt seen evidence to show Mr A had 
been declined credit specifically due to the inconsistencies; he thought Lloyds offer of £75 
was fair. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr A wasnt happy with this 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I understand this isnt the 
outcome Mr A was hoping for but Ill explain the reasoning for my decision below.
Its not in doubt that Lloyds havent been consistent when reporting Mr As promotional rate 
on his credit file. They agreed this in their response to Mr As complaint. They paid Mr A £75 
and agreed to amend his credit file for both July 2018 and March 2019. The reason this 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision is because Mr A doesnt think the potential 
impact of this inconsistency has been addressed so Ive focused on this.
Mr A says that, by Lloyds not reporting his account as having a promotional rate of interest, 
other lenders will assume hes in financial difficulty when he only pays his minimum 
payment. In particular, he thinks this has led to a delay in a mortgage application. I can 
understand why Mr A would be worried about certain months not showing as a promotional rate when the majority have. And I can understand why he would think this would impact his 
ability to obtain future credit.
But, crucially, I dont think this is the case. Ive seen information from a leading credit 
reference agency that explain interest rates on credit accounts arent factored into any 
scores they provide to a lender who is deciding whether to provide credit. And when lenders 
do make decisions, they take into a range of factors. There is also no obligation for lender to 
provide the promotional rate information. But, as Lloyds chose to do so, Id expect them to 
have reported it consistently.
Ive also considered the information Mr A has provided and I understand why he thinks this 
strengthens his case. But, as Mr A cleared his Lloyds account with lump sums and didnt 
always only make the minimum payment, I dont think the promotional rate alone would 
indicate he was in any financial difficulty.
Ive also seen no evidence to show that Mr A has been refused any credit specifically for this 
reason. And Im unable to compensate Mr A for prospective impact. Im only able to consider 
compensation for any direct impact hes been caused. And I do think Mr A has been left 
upset and concerned by the inconsistency in reporting, so I do think he should be 
compensated for this.
Lloyds paid Mr A £75, and also agreed to amend his credit file which they did. After this, Mr 
A has provided evidence to show his rate was reported incorrectly again afterwards. I can 
understand why this would be frustrating but by this time, Mr As promotional rate was due to 
expire in the following months and Ive seen Mr A made payments higher than the minimum 
payment to reduce his outstanding amount. So again, I dont think the incorrect reporting in 
itself had any financial impact on Mr A. 
Taking this into account, and that I dont think Lloyds had an obligation to report the 
promotional rate or that itd be considered for any future lending, I dont think Lloyds need to 
do anything further on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman