DRN-3019631
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) wont fully refund money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
On 6 October 2020, Mrs M received a call from someone claiming to be from a well-known 
telephone company. Though Mrs M isnt a customer of the company, the caller claimed that 
her account was being hacked. Unfortunately, the caller was actually a fraudster.
To demonstrate the apparent threat to her security, the fraudster asked Mrs M to access her 
computer. They went through various processes and showed her warnings relating to the 
security of her computer. 
Mrs M doesnt recall the fraudsters knowing any information about her, including her name. 
She also didnt check whether the number the fraudster called on matched that of the 
genuine telephone company.
After instructing Mrs M to go to various different websites she used to test their security, the 
conversation turned to Mrs Ms bank accounts. I understand the caller suggested her bank 
account was compromised and that, in order to catch the fraudster responsible, shed need 
to transfer money to a different bank account. Doing so would trap the fraudster allowing 
them to be identified. 
Mrs M made two transactions totalling £25,000, both by speaking to a First Direct advisor 
over the telephone. First Direct stopped the second payment of £15,000 and had a further 
conversation with Mrs M before releasing it. The fraudster told her that the bank was 
colluding with whoever was hacking her account, so she shouldnt tell them the real reason 
she was making the payments. Mrs M did as instructed and during all three conversations 
with the bank she said she was making a payment to her son-in-law to help with his 
business. 
It appears Mrs M became suspicious of the call the following day after seeing something on 
television about scams. She reported the matter to First Direct that morning. It contacted the 
bank which received Mrs Ms funds and eventually £344.57 was returned to her.
First Direct is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  First Direct originally agreed 
that it hadnt provided an effective warning (a requirement under the Code) but also thought 
Mrs M hadnt made the payments with a reasonable belief that the recipient was legitimate. 
So, in line with the CRM Code, it refunded Mrs M 50% of her loss. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They agreed with First Direct that Mrs M 
didnt have a reasonable basis for belief, so thought that its decision to refund half her losses 
was fair.
Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, a customer will receive full reimbursement if they 
meet the level of care required of them. A firm also has standards it must meet. If it does not 
meet those standards then, regardless of whether the customer met their level of care, it will 
normally be liable for some of a consumers loss. Here, First Direct originally said it hadnt 
met its standards by failing to provide an effective warning to Mrs M. As the bank which 
received Mrs Ms funds didnt admit any liability, that meant it was responsible for refunding 
Mrs M at least 50% of her loss. 
Later, in its submissions to our service, it said it had actually provided an effective warning to 
Mrs M in the call that took place to verify the second payment. However, as it has already 
refunded Mrs M 50% of her loss, I wont be considering whether First Direct met its 
standards as a firm, only whether it can rely on any of the exceptions to full reimbursement 
set out in the Code, as doing so would not make any difference to the outcome.
While theres no doubt that Mrs M is the victim here, as Ive mentioned, the CRM Code does 
not automatically entitle her to a full refund  it also puts a level of care on her. And, a firm 
can decline to provide a refund if it considers that one of the exceptions to reimbursement in 
the CRM Code applies.
Like the investigator, Ive concluded that at least one of those exceptions does apply  that 
Mrs M lacked a reasonable basis for belief in making the payments.  Im also of the view 
that, regardless of whether First Direct could have prevented the scam, given Mrs Ms role in 
what happened, I think a 50% refund is a fair outcome.  
I know this will be extremely disappointing to Mrs M and I have no desire to make her feel 
any worse about what happened. I hope shell understand the reasons why Ive reached this 
decision. 
Its also important to say that Ive found Mrs M to be very candid and honest in her 
recollections. This was a cruel scam and I have every sympathy for her. I also have no doubt 
that she believed what the caller told her and would not have gone ahead unless that was 
the case. However, I also need to be persuaded that her belief was reasonable. Im mindful 
that in doing so, I need to take into account, as far as possible, Mrs Ms characteristics 
(including her familiarity with technology) and the sophistication of the scam and not simply 
judge her actions with the benefit of hindsight.  But, even taking those factors into account, I 
think there are several points before the payment was made that ought to have caused Mrs 
M significant concern about whether the caller was legitimate. 
Im afraid that its very difficult for me to understand why Mrs M did believe the caller. They 
dont appear to have known even superficial information about her  such as her name or 
address. And, while I understand Mrs Ms point that this particular telephone company is 
extremely well known and operates a significant part of the network (giving them cause to 
actually contact her recently), she wasnt a customer of that business and she seems to 
acknowledge that their claim that her account was at risk didnt make a lot of sense because 
she didnt have an account. Nor does it appear the caller was able to mimic the telephone 
number of the genuine business or provide any other information to validate their identity. 
I appreciate that Mrs M seems to have been unaware of this type of scam, but I dont think its unreasonable for me to suggest that she ought to have treated an unexpected call from a 
business she had no substantive connection to with a reasonable degree of caution. After 
all, nuisance calls of one type or another have been around for a long time and it cannot be 
simply assumed that a caller is who they say they are or that they have the recipients best 
interests at heart. 
While Mrs M doesnt recall exactly what the fraudsters did with her computer, it sounds like 
they gained access to it  probably through her allowing remote access. I say this because 
Mrs M talks about the fraudsters going through various processes and showing her 
warnings. She also mentions that, when she reported the scam, the fraudsters were able to 
display messages on her computer screen. I dont think this would have been possible 
without remote access to her computer. In my experience this is a common way in which 
scammers will attempt to persuade their victim that their computer and internet connection is 
at risk and I have no doubt that it was very convincing to Mrs M.
However, if Mrs M wasnt concerned by the out of the blue call from someone claiming, but 
not providing any evidence, they were from the telephone company, I think she really ought 
to have been once the conversation turned to her bank accounts and making payments. 
I think Mrs M ought to have found it intrusive and inappropriate for them to not only ask her 
to make payments from her bank account, but also to keep these instructions secret from 
those around her and actively mislead the bank. I dont think its unfair to suggest that Mrs M 
ought to have known that fraud investigations of the type Mrs M believed she was helping 
with were not the responsibility of the telephone company and, if there was a problem with 
banking security, then she ought to have discussed this with her bank. 
What is more, during the security call Mrs M had with First Direct about the second payment, 
they outlined the exact scenario she was in, even mentioning the specific telephone 
company as one which fraudsters might try to impersonate and ask her to move money. 
While I have no doubt the fraudsters were persuasive and, as Mrs M states, even bullying at 
times, its difficult for me to understand why her belief wasnt shaken by the advisors 
comments  she knew she was speaking to First Direct but she only believed she was 
speaking to the telephone company. 
Overall, Im afraid I think there were a number of factors which ought to have given Mrs M 
cause for concern about the identity and legitimacy of the caller. While clearly aspects of 
what happened involved sophisticated techniques which were completely unknown to Mrs 
M, I dont think Mrs M required any special knowledge of technology or scams to identify that 
the requests made by the caller were inappropriate and carried significant risk.
Therefore, I dont think Mrs M had a reasonable basis for belief in making the payments, so 
First Direct havent made a mistake by not refunding her in full.
Ive also thought about whether First Direct could have done more to protect Mrs M from 
financial harm. Im mindful that when she made these payments, First Direct should fairly 
and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
In this case, First Direct did identify the second transaction as being unusual  which is what 
prompted the additional security call. 
In all of the calls, Mrs M seemed assured and confident when instructing the payments. She 
consistently provided the same reason for making them and added details to the cover story 
which added to its believability. Also, when asked whether shed been contacted by 
someone claiming to be from a trusted organisation and the specific telephone company was named, she replied no. That said, she was making her second payment that day which might 
have struck the bank as odd considering the reasons Mrs M gave for the payments. Its also 
unclear the extent to which her story would have stood up to some simple questions. 
However, even if I was to conclude that First Direct ought to have questioned Mrs M about 
the first payment or that further questions might have revealed (and prevented) the scam, 
Ive already set out that Mrs M had a role in what happened and, therefore, I think that the 
refund of 50% of her loss is the fair outcome.  
Finally, Im satisfied First Direct did all it could to recover Mrs Ms funds. It contacted the 
bank which received them the same day. Unfortunately, only a small sum remained which 
was returned to Mrs M.
For the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that First Direct has acted fairly by refunding 50% 
of Mrs Ms loss and I wont be instructing it to do anything further.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman