DRN-3555742
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy that Marks & Spencer Financial Service Plc (M&S) approved her for a
credit account and later increases the credit limit on that account, as she feels that all
provisions of credit were unaffordable for her at those times.
What happened
In November 2017, Ms P applied for an M&S credit account. Her application was approved,
and M&S issued Ms P with a credit account with a £4,000 credit limit.
In January 2018, Ms P asked M&S to increase her credit limit to £6,000, and in August 2018,
Ms P asked M&S to further increase her credit limit, this time to £8,000. Both of Ms Ps
requests were agreed by M&S and the credit limit on the account was increased accordingly.
In 2021, Ms P raised a complaint with M&S on the basis that she felt that she hadnt been
able to afford the credit account that M&S had approved her for in 2017, and that this should
have been apparent to M&S, had they undertaken checks into her financial position before
approving her for that credit amount.
M&S looked at Ms Ps complaint. They noted that they had undertaken checks into Ms Ps
financial position before approving her credit account application and her requests for further
credit, and they felt thered been nothing resulting from those checks that M&S felt should
have given them cause to consider that the credit being offered to Ms P wouldnt be
affordable for her at those times. So, they didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Ms P wasnt satisfied with M&Ss response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the information about Ms Ps
financial position in 2017 was such that it should have been the case that M&S should have
concluded that Ms P wouldnt be able to afford the credit being offered to her, such that it
shouldnt have been offered. Our investigator therefore recommended that this complaint be
upheld in Ms Ps favour on that basis.
M&S didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 March 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before
approving a customer for a new line of credit, the business would undertake
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a
customer is in all likelihood affordable for that customer at that time.
When Ms P applied for the credit account, M&S took information from her about her
income and expenditure to assess whether Ms P would be able to afford the monthly
payments that might have become due on the account. M&S also obtained
information about Ms P from a credit reference agency to get a better understanding
of Ms Ps wider financial position at that time. And M&S contend that there was
nothing resulting from these checks into Ms Ps financial circumstances that they feel
should have given them cause to consider that Ms P might not be able to afford the
credit account that she was applying for.
Ms P applied for the credit account online, and M&S have been able to provide this
service with the information provided to them by Ms P at the point of application as
well as the information that they obtained from a credit reference agency as part of
the application approval process.
Im aware that theres some contention over whether M&S assessed the correct
amount of annual income for Ms P at that point of application. This is because M&S
have record of Ms Ps annual income at that time as being £28,000, while Ms P
maintains that it was only some months later that her income increased to this
amount and that at the time of the application her actual income was significantly
lower.
However, its notable from the information that M&S have provided that they
assessed the net income amount available to Ms P at the point of application as
being £1,790 per month, which corroborates with the actual monthly income amounts
received by Ms P at that time as per her provided current account statements, which
show that for the two months surrounding the point of application her net monthly
income was £1,830 and £1,780 per month respectively. As such, Im satisfied that
M&S did base their assessment at the point of the account application on a fair and
reasonable net monthly income amount for Ms P.
M&S have confirmed that they used a model of monthly expenditure derived from the
information they obtained about Ms P from a credit reference agency, and it must be
noted that using such a model didnt contravene the affordability assessment
standards that were in place at that time. M&Ss assessment included that Ms P had
total outgoings of £1,314, including modelled amounts for rent, critical spending
(such as food, etc) and existing credit commitments. This meant that as per M&Ss
assessment, Ms P had a disposable monthly income of approximately £475, which in
turn led M&S to conclude that Ms P would in all likelihood be able to afford a new line
of credit with a credit limit of £4,000.
Ms P has explained that her current account statements for that time show that her
actual spending was greater than the monthly amounts M&S modelled based on the
credit file information they received, and that had M&S assessed those statements
then they would have used the more accurate information to arrive a different
conclusion than they ultimately did.
I can appreciate Ms Ps position here, but at the time of the credit account application
in 2017, M&S werent required or obliged to undertake any additional checks into Ms
Ps financial position beyond those that they did. And while it could be the case that a
credit provider should have assessed an applicants bank statements, this would only
be usually expected where the amount of credit being applied for was considerably
larger than the credit amount of £4,000 under consideration in this instance.
It's also notable that when Ms P did later speak with M&S, she provided figureswhich gave a total monthly expenditure amount approximately £155 higher than that
modelled by M&S. And, given that M&S considered that Ms P had £475 of
disposable income, I feel that even if that amount were reduced by £155, so that Ms
P was considered to have a disposable monthly income of £320, it would still be
reasonable for M&S to consider that Ms P would most likely be able to afford the
credit account that they ultimately provided to her.
I also feel that its important to note that it was explained to M&S by Ms P at the point
of application that she intended to use the new credit account for balance transfers.
The account statements confirm that Ms P did make such balance transfers from her
other existing credit commitments. This means that Ms Ps total amount of existing
credit didnt increase by £4,000 following the approval of the account, because Ms P
moved some of her existing credit commitments to the new M&S account, where
those balances benefitted from a period of 0% interest available to her on the new
M&S account.
Finally, the benefit of hindsight allows the assessment of how Ms P managed the
account in the months following the account opening, and its notable that Ms P
maintained the balance of the account within the agreed credit limit and didnt incur
any over-limit fees.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that M&S did act unfairly or
unreasonably by approving Ms P for the new credit account with a credit limit of
£4,000 that they did in November 2017, and it follows from this that my provisional
decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing M&S to take
any further action.
In that provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms P and M&S the opportunity to provide any
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final
decision. Ms P did provide some comments for my consideration, while M&S did not 
respond.
Ms P drew my attention to a car finance agreement that she started in October 2017, the
month before her credit account application was approved, and which she feels wasnt taken
into consideration by M&S.
M&S have confirmed that this car finance agreement wasnt taken into consideration by
them at the point of application, because it wasnt present on Ms Ps credit file at that time.
Its notable from Ms Ps credit file that the car finance agreement began on 9 October 2017,
which was approximately three weeks before Ms P applied for the credit account with M&S.
Given that credit files arent updated immediately by credit providers, including car finance
providers, but rather are generally only updated on a monthly basis, M&Ss explanation here
seems reasonable to me.
I also note that M&S have provided a detailed account of the information they obtained from
the credit reference agency when assessing Ms Ps credit account application, and that this
doesnt include any reference to the car finance agreement. Im therefore satisfied that the
car finance agreement wasnt yet present on Ms Ps credit file when M&S assessed it.
M&S could only conduct their assessment using the information provided to them by the
credit reference agency, and so I dont feel that M&S can be considered as to have acted
unfairly towards Ms P by not including the car finance agreement in their initial account
affordability assessment.
Ms P has also provided further comments regarding the amount of her personal incomeused by M&S in the initial affordability assessment. However, I feel that I covered this point
at length in my provisional decision letter, including that I feel that it would have been
reasonable for M&S to have considered the initial provision of credit to have been affordable
for Ms P even had the lower personal income amount for Ms P been used in the affordability
assessment.
Ms P has also stated that she feels that the fact that she initially used the credit account to
transfer existing credit balances to benefit from the promotional 0% interest rate doesnt
mean that she benefited financially from having that account and that it remains the case
that her credit facility was increased by £4,000, which she couldnt afford.
I accept that Ms Ps total credit facility did increase by £4,000 here by way of the new line of
credit provided to her by M&S. But I continue to feel that it was reasonable for M&S to
consider that this further line of credit was affordable for Ms P based on the affordability
assessment that they reasonably undertook, as explained previously. And while Ms P is
correct that the 0% interest offer didnt last forever, it was available to Ms P for several
months, and I remain satisfied that Ms P did benefit financially by transferring balances from
other credit accounts that were incurring interest to this new account where those balances
temporarily didnt incur interest.
Finally, Ms P has referenced a letter from M&S that included the account number of a
different M&S customer. While I can appreciate how Ms P might feel this adds further
credence to her complaint, I consider this issue to be outside the scope of this complaint,
which is focussed on the provision of credit by M&S to Ms P, and so I havent considered
this point further.
To summarise then, while I can appreciate Ms Ps strength of feeling on this matter, it
remains my opinion that it was fair and reasonable for M&S to approve Ms Ps initial
application of credit on the basis of the affordability assessment that they undertook and to
then have provided Ms P with a credit account with an initial credit limit of £4,000. It follows
therefore that it remains that I wont be provisionally upholding this aspect of Ms Ps
complaint.
However, in that provisional decision letter only considered the initial provision of credit that 
took place in November 2017.But it was evident that Ms P was also wanting to refer to is 
service her continuing complaint about the increases to the credit limit on her account that 
took place in January and August 2018, from £4,000 to £6,000 and from £6,000 to £8,000 
respectively.
As such, I apologised to both Ms P and M&S for not considering these points in my original 
provisional decision letter, and went on to issue a second provisional decision on 10 June 
2022 as follows:
Credit limit increase from £4,000 to £6,000 in January 2018
In January 2018, Ms P contacted M&S and asked for the credit limit on her account 
to be increased from £4,000 to £6,000. M&S have confirmed that they conducted an 
assessment of Ms Ps income and expenditure at that time, but unfortunately M&S 
havent been able to locate this assessment.
M&S did however locate details of a later discussion that took place with Ms P in 
June 2019 where Ms P confirmed her income as being £2,400 per month. The 
equates to about £29,000 per annum, which is comparable to the annual income 
amount of £28,000 that M&S used when assessing Ms Ps creditworthiness for the 
original provision of credit in November 2017. As such, Im satisfied that Ms Ps income hadnt changed significantly from the time of the initial account application to 
the point where she requested further credit from M&S.
M&S were able to provide this service with details of the amount of existing 
unsecured and revolving debt that they assessed Ms P as already holding held at the 
time of her request to increase the credit limit £6,000, and M&S record these figures 
as £25,700 and £3,850 respectively. This means that at that time, M&S assessed Ms 
P as having combined existing debt totalling approximately £29,500.
This is a significant amount of existing debt and is comparable to Ms Ps annual 
income amount. And while it may have been the case that the majority of this debt 
related to a car finance agreement that Ms P had entered into, I feel that this level of 
debt to income ratio is close to where the provision of further credit could be 
considered as being irresponsible. As such, Im not convinced it was reasonable for 
M&S to have provided any further credit to Ms P without first having undertaken more 
detailed checks into her financial position.
However, had M&S undertaken more detailed checks into Ms Ps financial position, 
which I feel in all likelihood should have included a review of Ms Ps current account, 
Im satisfied that it would have been reasonable for M&S to have then provided the 
credit limit increase to Ms P that they did.
I say this because having reviewed Ms Ps current account statements for the 
months leading up to the credit limit increase, its evident that Ms P has net monthly 
income from her employer of approximately £1,800, while paying monthly housing 
rent of £580 as well as payments to other credit commitments totalling £478. This 
leaves a significant amount of Ms Ps net monthly income unaccounted for, and as 
such, I feel that it would have been reasonable for M&S to have assessed Ms P as 
having had sufficient disposable monthly income available to her to have been able 
to afford the credit limit increase.
And while it was the case that Ms P was generally maintaining the balance of her 
current account in an overdrawn position, its also the case that in the months leading 
up to the credit limit increase she didnt incur any charges form her bank for 
exceeding the agreed overdraft limit on her account. Additionally, Ms Ps current 
account statements also demonstrate a notable amount of retail and leisure spending 
during that time, which I feel supports the position that Ms P did have a reasonable 
amount of disposable income available to her.
Finally, its also notable that the spending that Ms P undertook on the M&S credit 
account in the months leading up to the credit limit increase also included a 
significant amount of retail and leisure spending, and didnt include any transactions 
which I feel should have given M&S cause to suspect that Ms P might not be able to 
afford additional credit at that time.
As such, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for M&s to have increased Ms Ps credit 
limit to £6,000 upon her request to do so, and it follows that I wont be provisionally 
upholding this aspect of Ms Ps complaint.
Credit limit increase from £6,000 to £8,000 in August 2018
When Ms P contacted M&S in August 2018 and requested a further credit limit 
increase, from £6,000 to £8,000 on her account, it appears that Ms Ps financial 
position was similar in some respects as when she requested the earlier credit limit 
increase. I say this because, as explained earlier, Im satisfied that Ms Ps income remained broadly consistent during that time, and that she was paying monthly rent 
in the same manner that she had been paying previously.
However, its notable from the information provided to this service by M&S that Ms 
Ps total amount of existing debt had increased in the months since the last credit 
limit increase in January 2018, from £29,500 up to a combined total of approximately 
£34,500.
This is a significant increase in a relatively short period of time and meant that Ms Ps 
total existing debt was at that point considerably more than her declared annual 
income. As such, I dont feel that it was reasonable or responsible for M&S to have 
provided Ms P with any further credit at that time, and I feel that the provision of the 
credit limit increase to £8,000 potentially increased Ms Ps level of what I feel was 
already an unsustainable amount of debt.
It follows then that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Ms Ps favour on 
the basis that the second credit limit increase, from £6,000 to £8,000, shouldnt have 
taken place. 
Once again, in my provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms P and M&S the opportunity to 
provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to 
a final decision letter. M&S confirmed that they were happy to accept my updated provisional 
decision, whereas Ms P did provide some further comments for my consideration.
Ms P explained that she felt that M&Ss administration of her credit file following the final 
credit limit increase to £8,000, which included the defaulting of the account by M&S for non-
payment, had caused her a significant degree of upset and inconvenience, including that she 
had been rejected for a loan application which Ms P felt was solely because of the default on 
her account. Ms P therefore requested that I consider amending my decision to instruct M&S 
to pay compensation to her for the trouble and upset that shed incurred.
I can appreciate Ms Ps position here, and its evident from the credit account statements 
that Ms P fell into repayment difficulties not long after M&S agreed to Ms Ps request to 
increase the credit limit to £8,000. However, its also evident from the credit account 
statements that in the period between the credit limit being increased to £8,000 and Ms P 
falling into arrears on the account, that Ms P continued to use the account for leisure and 
retail spending.
As such, while I feel that M&S shouldnt have provided the credit limit increase to £8,000 that 
they did, for the reasons explained previously, I also feel that Ms P must bear some 
responsibility for the balance that accrued, given that in the months immediately before Ms P 
entered into a repayment arrangement with M&S a large portion of the spending on the 
account was non-essential spending. And it follows from this that I dont feel that it would be 
fair to instruct M&S to make any payment for distress or inconvenience as Ms P would like in 
this instance.
All of which means that my final decision here is that I will be upholding this complaint in    
Ms Ps favour on the basis as outlined in my second provisional decision letter. And I can 
confirm that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
M&S must reimburse to Ms Ps account any fees and charges incurred on the account 
following the credit limit increase to £8,000.M&S must also reimburse to Ms Ps account any interest incurred on the account on any 
portion of the balance above £6,000 from the point of the credit limit increase to £8,000 
onwards.
If these reimbursements result in the account holding a balance in Ms Ps favour, M&S must 
pay this balance to Ms P along with 8% simple interest calculated to the date of payment.
If these reimbursements result in the account still holding a balance to be paid by Ms P, 
M&S must arrange a suitable repayment plan with Ms P, ensuring that no interest is charged 
on any portion of the account balance that might remain above £6,000.
M&S must also remove all adverse credit reporting relating to this account from the point of 
the credit limit increase to £8,000 onwards, on the following conditions:
If the account remains active, so long as the balance isnt above the credit 
limit of £6,000  which the account credit limit must be reduced to.
If the account is closed, so long as there is no balance remaining on the 
account for Ms P to pay.
If the account is closed and Ms P has a balance outstanding to pay, M&S must make the 
credit file adjustments referenced above when Ms P pays that balance and reduces the 
outstanding amount to zero. The same condition applies if the account remains active and if 
Ms P brings the account balance back under the credit limit of £6,000.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Marks & Spencer Financial
Service Plc on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman