DRN-3625753
The complaint
Mr S complains an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Limited gave him unsuitable 
advice to move one of his pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to invest in a 
high-risk investment.
What happened
Mr S says he received a cold call from an unregulated company who offered him a pension 
review. He says when he agreed he was passed to an adviser  Mr W at Bridgewater 
Financial Services Ltd  who he says conducted the review and advised him. He says Mr W 
told him hed be guaranteed better returns if he transferred into a SIPP to make an 
investment called Verdant Australian Farmland (now Global Agricultural Services). He says 
he was led to believe it was a low to medium risk investment which fit with the level of risk he 
was prepared to take.
Bridgewater was an appointed representative of Paradigm Financial Advisers Limited 
between 26 November 2009 and 27 January 2011. Paradigm later changed its name to 
Caerus Financial Limited and then to Quilter Financial Limited. For the purposes of this 
decision, Ill refer to the business as Quilter throughout. And Ill refer to the investment as 
GAS.
The SIPP application form was signed on 25 June 2010. The transaction history for the SIPP 
shows:
The SIPP was opened on 9 September 2010.
One of Mr Ss pensions (£41,125.35) was transferred on 23 September 2010.
IFA fees of £1,625.01 were paid to Bridgewater on 24 September 2010.
£35,000 was invested into GAS on 4 November 2010.
Returns of £475.59; £187.64; and £94.17 were received from the GAS investment on 
14 October 2013; 8 October 2014; and 3 November 2015 respectively.
No further returns were received, and it seems the GAS investment was revalued to £1 in 
August 2017. Mr S complained to Quilter in a letter dated 30 August 2019 about the advice 
he said Bridgewater had given him.
Quilter said it isnt responsible. In particular, it said Mr S had made his complaint too late. It 
said the events complained about were more than six years before he complained and he 
was sent a letter about the investment on 8 October 2014 that, along with later letters and 
the annual statements for the SIPP, should have caused concern and this was more than 
three years before he complained. But in any event, it said Mr W hadnt been acting in his 
capacity as a representative of Quilter. It said it had no business relationship with the 
investment provider and had received no renumeration. It also said the agreement between 
it and Bridgewater means its only responsible for introductions to, or applications submitted 
to, an approved institution.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. His representative said hed never received the 
8 October 2014 update. An investigator and then an ombudsman were satisfied the 
complaint had been made within the time limits set out in the rules and so the complaint was 
passed to another investigator to consider the other jurisdiction issues Quilter had raised. 
That investigator was satisfied we could consider Mr Ss complaint against Quilter and that 
the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said:
She agreed with the previous investigator and ombudsman that Mr S didnt know he 
had cause for complaint more than three years before he complained. And theres 
nothing to say he ought reasonably to have.
Bridgewater advised Mr S and made arrangements and Quilter is responsible for that 
advice and arrangements. Nothing had been provided to support Quilters claim that 
Bridgewater could only make introductions to, or submit applications to, an approved 
institution under the agreement with it.
The advice to move Mr Ss pension to a SIPP to invest in the GAS investment wasnt 
suitable.
If everything had happened as it should have, Mr S would have left his pension 
where it was.
Quilter didnt agree. The issue has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
My findings  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is in the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. By this, I mean that its a 
complaint I can consider against Quilter as it was made within the time limits and concerns 
acts or omissions of its appointed representative for which it accepted responsibility.
Was the complaint made too late?
An ombudsman issued a decision on 6 August 2021 saying she was satisfied the complaint 
had been made within the time limits. Quilter continued to disagree and highlighted that Mr S 
didnt need to know the full extent of his complaint for time to start  he just needed to know 
something might have gone wrong. Ive carefully considered everything Quilter has said. But, 
like the previous ombudsman, Im satisfied Mr S made his complaint within the time limits. 
Briefly, my reasons for this are:
Although Quilter has referred to A REVIEW from the Board of GAS Global 
Agricultural Services which it says would have been sent to Mr S on 8 October 2014, 
and other letters that it says would have been sent later, Im satisfied the content of 
these letters would only be relevant if I was persuaded Mr S most likely received 
them. Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded this is most likely. I note 
what Quilter has said about other investors receiving letters and other SIPP providers 
being able to demonstrate letters being sent. But Mr S has said he didnt receive the 
letters; Quilter hasnt been able to provide any evidence of the letters being sent; and 
the SIPP provider has confirmed to us it cant evidence the letters being sent to 
consumers. I therefore havent put any weight on either the 8 October 2014 letter or 
the later letters in deciding what Mr S knew, or ought reasonably to have known.Mr S hasnt kept his SIPP statements and the SIPP provider has only been able to 
provide one  the 2012 one. Ive carefully considered this and note it included a line 
The value of your fund as at 30th March 2012 is: £38680.54. Whilst this is slightly 
lower than Mr S may have been expecting to see, I dont think this is sufficient to say 
he ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint at that point. The SIPP 
provider says the GAS investment would have been valued at £35,000 until 
August 2017 when it was revalued to £1. At that point it says SIPP statements would 
no longer have been provided because the value of the SIPP would have been below 
£5,000. Mr S did complain within three years of August 2017. And I havent seen 
anything that persuades me the content of any of the statements between 2012 and 
2017 ought reasonably to have concerned Mr S.
Mr S says he didnt know anything was wrong until August 2019 when he first spoke to his 
representative. This seems plausible in the circumstances and Ive seen nothing that 
satisfies me he ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint before August 2017.
Responsibility
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Bridgewater wasnt directly authorised. 
Instead it was an appointed representative of Quilter. Quilter is an authorised firm. Its 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out a range of regulated 
activities including advising on investments and arranging deals in investments. We can 
therefore consider complaints about Quilter. And this includes some complaints about its 
appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Quilter was authorised to do. 
Whether Quilter is responsible for the actions of Mr W here is determined by considering the 
terms of the contract between Quilter and Bridgewater  the appointed representative 
agreement.
To decide whether Quilter is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr S has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mr S has complained about?
Mr S complains he was given unsuitable advice to switch one of his pensions to a SIPP to 
invest in a high-risk investment.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
arranging deals in investments is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.
Its clear that Mr W was involved in making arrangements for setting up the SIPP and the 
pension switch. Im satisfied its also most likely Mr W advised Mr S to switch his pension to 
the SIPP to invest in the GAS investment.
Although suitability reports are one of the indicators that advice was given, the absence of 
one doesnt mean advice wasnt given. I think its highly unlikely Mr S would have taken the 
decision himself to switch his pension to a SIPP to make the GAS investment without 
receiving advice. Hes plausibly and consistently said Mr W advised him and that hed been 
happy with his pension until that point. Im persuaded by Mr Ss recollection of events. 
The SIPP and Mr Ss previous pension are specified investments, so Im satisfied that 
advising on and arranging the switch are regulated activities. And given the timeline of 
events here, and what Mr S says happened, Im satisfied the advice to invest in GAS was 
either part of that advice and arranging, or ancillary to it.Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr W was most likely holding himself out as 
acting as Bridgewater  a representative of Quilter  at the time of the events complained 
about. 
I say this because:
The SIPP application form Mr S signed on 25 June 2010 said:
In return for the services to be provided by [the SIPP provider], I agree that 
[the SIPP provider] may deduct from my fund the charges set out in the 
leaflet and such additional charges as I have agreed with Bridgewater 
Financial Services Limited and may realise any of the investments held for 
my benefit in order to pay their fees and any third party costs/fees relating to 
those investments or advice I receive in respect of this arrangement
I hereby appoint Bridgewater Financial Services Limited as investment 
managers for the purposes of the Lifetime SIPP and fully understand and 
agree that in all circumstances I am solely responsible for all decisions 
relating to the purchase, retention and sale of investments held under the 
SIPP for my benefit (original emphasis).
Mr W wrote to the SIPP provider with the documents for the SIPP on Bridgewater 
headed paper on 3 September 2010. Ive also been provided with emails between 
Mr W and the SIPP provider about the setting up of the SIPP  all of which used 
Mr Ws Bridgewater email address.
Bridgewater was stated to be the introducer on the money laundering checklist and 
verification of identity documents that were filled in. And the new SIPP checklist said 
the IFA was Bridgewater.
The SIPP provider confirmed the IFA was listed as Bridgewater. And it sent the 
invoice for its annual administration fee and transfer in fee C/O Bridgewater 
Financial Services on 10 September 2010.
Bridgewater was paid a fee from the SIPP.
Ive therefore gone on to consider the agreement that was in place between Quilter and 
Bridgewater. Unfortunately, I havent been provided with a copy of the appointed 
representative agreement that would have been in place at the time of the advice here. 
However, I have been provided with a later version of the agreement dated April 2014. And 
Quilter has said that the terms would have been similar to the terms in that agreement. Ive 
therefore carefully considered that agreement and note that it says:
Appointment
The Firm hereby appoints the Representative as its appointed representative, subject 
to the terms of this Agreement. The Firm authorises the Representative to conduct 
the Relevant Activities.
Relevant Activities are defined as the activities regulated under FSMA set out in 
Schedule 1 which the Representative will be carrying out under this Agreement. And Schedule 1 sets out that this includes arranging deals in investments and advising on 
investments.
Based on the terms of this appointed representative agreement, it seems Bridgewater was 
authorised to give investment and pension advice and I cant see any restrictions that I think 
would be relevant in the circumstances here. 
Quilter says it didnt have a relationship with the investment provider and received no 
renumeration. And its said Bridgewater was only authorised to make introductions to, or 
submit applications to, an approved institution. But the version of the appointed 
representative agreement its provided doesnt include such a restriction. The investigator 
explained this to Quilter in her view and so its had the opportunity to provide a different 
version of the appointed representative agreement or explain why her reading of the 
agreement is wrong. Its done neither of those things.
So, I think Quilter did accept responsibility for the acts conducted by Bridgewater.
My decision on jurisdiction
For the reasons discussed above, my decision is that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider this complaint.
My findings  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the complaint should be upheld.
Mr S says his attitude to risk was medium at most and he now knows the GAS investment 
involved more risk than he was prepared to take. As previously mentioned, a fact find from 
the time unfortunately isnt available. I havent seen any justification for switching a pension 
that it seems Mr S was happy with. It seems Mr Ws only reason for recommending the 
switch was so that Mr S could make the GAS investment. And I havent seen any 
documentary record of why this recommendation was made.
The GAS investment was an unregulated, esoteric, high-risk investment. It took the form of a 
land purchase contract which involved a company based in Cyprus leasing plots of 
agricultural land in Australia to investors. Crops were to be planted on the plots, and the 
objective was to provide an income to investors through the sale of those crops and capital 
growth through the sale of the plot of land. 
Investments such as this carry significant risks and a lack of protections. Although Mr S had 
a salary of approximately £150,000 a year, he says he had no investment experience. And 
although he had some savings, he says the finance agreements he had exceeded these 
savings. He was 42 years old and he says he couldnt afford to lose this pension as it was a 
large portion of his pension savings.
Everything Ive seen suggests Mr S was an ordinary retail investor and theres nothing that 
suggests to me he was the sophisticated type of investor for which unregulated high-risk 
investments would be suitable. Hes said he wasnt in a position to replace any losses within 
his pension and theres nothing that suggests he could afford to take significant risks with 
this pension. Mr W should have known all of this.In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to switch Mr Ss pension to a SIPP to invest in 
the GAS investment wasnt suitable and should never have been made as a 
recommendation. 
Im persuaded by Mr Ss evidence that he wasnt looking to move his pension and had been 
cold called. So, Im satisfied that if Mr W hadnt given unsuitable advice, Mr S would have left 
his pension as it was.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice. I take the view that Mr S wouldnt have 
moved his pension if everything had happened as it should have. Im satisfied that what Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable.
In summary, Quilter should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the switch and investment.
2. Take ownership of the GAS investment held in the SIPP if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ss pension in respect of his pension loss. If 
that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Mr S direct. In either case, the 
payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay Mr Ss SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event hes not now able to close 
his SIPP.
5. Pay compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr S.
6. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by Mr S.
Ill explain how Quilter should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the switch and 
investment
To do this, Quilter should work out the likely value of Mr Ss pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of switching to the SIPP.
Quilter should ask Mr Ss former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not switched his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation, then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable 
proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if the pension hadnt been 
switched.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Mr S has suffered.
Any additional sum that Mr S paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end.
2. Take ownership of the investment
Ideally, the asset in the SIPP  the GAS investment  could be removed from the SIPP. Mr S 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, and avoid paying further fees for the 
SIPP. For calculating compensation, Quilter should agree an amount with the SIPP provider 
as a commercial value for the investment. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs 
and take ownership of it.
If Quilter is able to purchase the GAS investment, then the price paid should be allowed for 
in the current transfer value (because itll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the 
investment).
If Quilter is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Provided Mr S is compensated in full, 
Quilter may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP might receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the 
effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr S may receive from the investment and any 
eventual sums hed be able to access from the SIPP. Quilter will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Mr S for the loss hes suffered in (1)
Since the loss Mr S has suffered is within his pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Mr Ss pension plan. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean 
the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow 
for the income tax relief Mr S could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Ss marginal rate of tax.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension, the compensation should be 
paid to Mr S direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to 
Mr S should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.4. SIPP fees
If Mr S is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid, Quilter should pay an 
amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent 
years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr S would not be in the 
SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So it wouldnt be fair for him to have to pay the fees to 
keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out 
with the GAS investment and the SIPP to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
Pay Mr S £300 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Mr S has been caused 
significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, in effect, a large 
portion of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £300 is fair to compensate for that 
upset.
6. Pay interest
Quilter should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that 
Mr S has accepted this decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to be 
paid from the date of this decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest 
per year. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr S 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
Quilter Financial Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Quilter Financial Limited should 
pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including 
trouble and upset but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Quilter Financial Limited pays Mr S the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
Quilter Financial Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman