DRN-3084518
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure UK Services Limited (ReAssure) will not allow him to cash in 
his annuity with it. 
What happened
Mr C had a personal pension with ReAssure. In 2006, Mr C enquired about taking his 
benefits under the policy. Mr C chose to take tax-free cash and an annuity providing income 
of approximately £463 a year. Mr C also chose to have a 50% spouses pension included 
with his annuity if he were to pre-decease Mrs C.
More recently, Mr C asked ReAssure if he could cash in his annuity. ReAssure said 
legislation did allow annuities valued under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was at its 
discretion. And whilst in the past it on occasion made offers in exceptional circumstances, it 
had now made a business decision to no longer do so. It also said that its costs were worked 
out when the annuity started based on paying it for Mr Cs lifetime. If it were to make an offer 
now it would have to make a lot of assumptions and this could work against Mr C. 
Mr C was unhappy with this. He feels he has been fobbed off by ReAssure and it could 
choose to make him an offer as it has done in the past to others. Mr Cs told us him and his 
wife are in financial hardship, as his wife is on a disability pension and hes had to stop work 
to care for her. He requires the money to pay for hearing aids and to put it towards an eye 
operation for his wife.
Our investigator looked into matters but she said ReAssure hadnt done anything wrong so 
she couldnt uphold the complaint. She asked ReAssure if it would consider cashing in the 
annuity on compassionate grounds, but it refused. Mr C was unhappy with the investigators 
view and asked that it is considered on more compassionate grounds. Hes said he is 
desperate due to their financial situation and it should be his choice as it is his money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes 
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12) 
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)   the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition 
is met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)   the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)  the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and 
make payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes 
cashing-in of annuities)  was a permissive over-ride.  What that means is the schemes are 
allowed to make these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Cs position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it 
can, but only up to a limit of £10,000. 
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance?
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule). 
Principles for Businesses 
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
Guidance to firms:FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of 
their business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should 
act in the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the 
expense of other customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without 
consideration of other factors or wider implications. 
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could 
cause issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
this case
1. Does ReAssure have discretion to commute Mr Cs annuity as requested? For 
example:
- Is the value under £10,000?
- Is Mr C the legal owner of the annuity?
- Is ReAssure the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If ReAssure is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Cs best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
- Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
- Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3.If Reassure was free to grant Mr Cs request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Reassure to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way? 
My findings in light of the above considerations
ReAssure hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Mr C to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have 
discretion to commute his annuity. There is the potential that Mr Cs annuitys cash in value 
is over £10,000. Ive run a couple of basic calculations online with established providers as 
to what annuity a 67 year old with a 50% spouses pension attached would receive now with 
£10,000 and the figures are in and around £450. This is just an indicator and weve asked ReAssure to put a value to the annuity, but it hasnt, so in the absence of proof that the value 
is over £10,000 Ill proceed as if it is under £10,000.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr C to show that he would be worse off if 
he were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mr Cs told us 
about his and his wifes circumstances, I think a lump sum would likely be more beneficial for 
them rather than the income. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum value (which 
hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mr Cs personal 
interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether ReAssure fairly took into account Mr Cs 
interests when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Mr C to cash-in his annuity. 
ReAssure has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mr C (and 
other customers like him), essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be 
cashed in, so it would be difficult to offer that option now without incurring significant cost 
and inconvenience  and possibly to the detriment of other customers. It made a number of 
points about this, for example: 
- It cannot consider cases (and offer cash in values) in isolation without considering all 
its qualifying customers. It has a duty to be fair to all its customers.
- Without appropriate processes and checks, it could result in poor customer outcomes 
and cause more harm than good. 
- To choose specific customers to make offers also has complications. Deciding who 
should receive an offer and who shouldnt, isnt possible without significant 
groundwork to determine what is fair (and the wider implications of this need to be 
considered on its customers and its business)
- Any decision made on the above, could cause more inconsistency as its difficult to 
determine who would and who wouldnt benefit from cashing in offers.
- There are significant financial implications on it, in offering this widely to customers.
- Its annuities are backed by other financial arrangements and backed by long-term 
and illiquid assets, so cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think ReAssures points here are fair ones.  I dont 
think ReAssure simply disregarded Mr Cs interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business 
model more widely. 
It seems to me that ReAssure could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to 
treat Mr Cs case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a 
business the size of ReAssure. However, I acknowledge ReAssures difficulty here. Im not 
persuaded there is reason in Mr Cs case to treat him differently to other customers with 
small annuities. (Its my understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr C would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and his 
unfortunate circumstances. But Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt 
something Mr C had a right to. And while ReAssure was free to allow his request, Im 
satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity 
product was designed, the impact on ReAssures existing systems and processes, the 
interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost. On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to decline Mr Cs 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr C in line with other 
customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in 
the future ReAssure changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its 
possible Mr C may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say ReAssure must 
change its position at present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mr C will be very disappointed with my decision. Im sorry to hear of his and his 
wifes struggles but Im afraid we as a service cannot help unless a business has made an 
error or done something wrong. And for the reasons explained I dont think ReAssure has. 
We have asked that ReAssure consider an offer on compassionate grounds but it didnt 
agreed to our request.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman