DRN-2020341
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car provided under a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand Bank 
Limited was not of satisfactory quality. FirstRand Bank Limited trades in this case as 
MotoNovo Finance and Ill refer to it as MotoNovo. 
What happened
In September 2019 Miss B took a car from MotoNovo on a five-year hire purchase 
agreement. The car was around four years and had covered some 26,000 miles. Its cash 
price was just under £9,500; Miss B paid a deposit of £295. 
Soon after she took delivery Miss B reported warning lights indicating faults with the cars 
tyre pressures and seat belts, as well as noises from the brakes and steering. She took the 
car back to the dealer on three occasions but was not satisfied that the problems had been 
resolved. 
Miss B therefore contacted MotoNovo with her concerns. It arranged an independent 
inspection which found that there were indeed faults with the car and that they had not been 
successfully repaired. MotoNovo agreed that further repairs could be carried out. They were 
completed at the end of February 2020.
In March 2020 Miss B reported continuing knocking sounds from the steering. In April 2020 
she says warning lights came on while she was driving, and the brakes failed  although she 
was able to bring the car safely to a stop. Her car was recovered by the AA and taken to the 
repairing garage. Miss B contacted MotoNovo to explain what had happened and MotoNovo 
arranged a further inspection. 
The second inspection, in May 2020 made a number of observations; I summarise those that 
I consider to be most significant:  
The AA engineer and the garage engineer believed an oil pump needed to be replaced. 
The car had been reported to have suffered a complete loss of brakes, which the 
repairers had found to be due to a defective oil pump.
There was evidence of a long-standing and substantial oil leak.
There was an excessive knock and rattle from the engine and the inspector was 
concerned that running the engine could cause further damage.
The inspector could not say without dismantling the engine whether or not the oil pump 
had failed.
Taking into account the time and mileage since the start of the hire purchase 
agreement, the issues reported would not have been present or developing at the time 
of delivery to Miss B. 
MotoNovo said that the engineers conclusions about the oil pump meant that it did not need 
to do any more to resolve the issues with the car.
Miss B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. She reached the conclusion that the car had not been of satisfactory quality 
and that it would be fair to let Miss B end the hire purchase agreement with nothing more to 
pay. She also recommended that MotoNovo refund the deposit and payments made since 
Miss B had no longer been provided with a courtesy car and pay her a further £150 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which Miss B had been put and the distress she had 
suffered.
MotoNovo did not accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 Miss Bs agreement with MotoNovo was to be read as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That means it should have been 
of the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. Those circumstances 
included the cars age, price and mileage and matters such as fitness for purpose and 
durability. 
The car was four years old when Mrs B entered into the agreement, with a mileage 
consistent with that age. It was to be expected that some problems would arise and the fact 
that the car was not perfect does not mean that it was not of satisfactory quality. 
However, the problems identified in the report of May 2020  which arose around seven 
months after the start of the hire period  were significant. They were sufficiently serious that 
the inspecting engineer was concerned that continuing to run the engine might cause further 
damage and had had the immediate consequence of causing the cars brakes to fail. Further 
investigation with a view to resolving the issue required dismantling the engine.
The cars mileage by May 2020 was not significantly higher than it had been when Miss B 
had acquired it in September 2019; her own mileage was rather less than the average over 
the previous four years. 
The engineers report expressed the view that the problems would not have been present or 
developing at the time of delivery of the car to Miss B. That however seems inconsistent with 
the observation of a long-standing oil leak and the apparent discrepancy is not explained. 
But in any event a fault does not have to be present at the point of delivery for an item to be 
of unsatisfactory quality; aspects of the quality of goods can include safety and durability. In 
my view, its unlikely that a reasonable person would conclude that a car that suffered the 
failure that the engineer described after six or seven months was of satisfactory quality. In 
saying that, I note in particular the risk of further damage if the car was used normally and 
the potential danger if a possible consequence was brake failure. 
I therefore agree with the investigator that the car was not of satisfactory quality and that 
Miss B should be compensated accordingly. 
Putting things right
The investigator thought that Miss B should be allowed to reject the car. Given the serious 
nature of the defects and the likely difficulty in repairing them, I agree with her. In addition, 
MotoNovo should refund any payments made by Miss B since the dealership took back her 
courtesy car and make a further payment in recognition of the trouble to which she has been put.    
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Miss Bs complaint, FirstRand Bank Limited should:
arrange for the collection of the car at no cost to Miss B (including, if applicable, meeting 
or refunding any storage costs);
end the hire purchase agreement, so that Miss B has nothing further to pay under it;
refund any hire payments Miss B has made since the return of the courtesy car;
refund the deposit of £295; 
pay interest on any refunds at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of the refund; and  
pay Mrs B £150 in recognition of the inconvenience to which shes been put and the 
distress shes suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman