DRN-1724572
 
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy with the compensation Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop 
Direct) has offered to settle her complaint related to PPI sold alongside a catalogue account.
What happened
Shop Direct wrote to Mrs O in June 2019 and said she was owed some compensation for 
excess commission that she had paid related to a PPI policy on her catalogue account. It 
offered her £78.49 after tax in compensation and sent a cheque for this amount. 
Mrs O was unhappy with the offer as she said her account had been open for many years 
and the offer seemed very low. She didnt cash the cheque that was sent to her and brought 
her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said that Shop Directs offer for the excess commission was fair as it only 
had to work this out from April 2007. But they also said as the cheque was not cashed by 
Mrs O it had now expired and should be reissued by Shop Direct, updating the 8% 
compensatory interest amount.
Shop Direct said it would reissue the cheque but only for the amount sent in June 2019 and 
it wouldnt pay any additional compensatory interest.
As the business does not agree with what our adjudicator recommended the matter has 
been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O had PPI attached to a catalogue credit account, known as a restricted credit account. 
Shop Direct wrote to Mrs O in April 2019 saying that although it had not previously upheld a 
complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, it had under recent direction from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) considered if Mrs O was owed any excess commission related to 
the PPI premiums. 
Shop Direct explained it was repaying the cost of the excess commission part of the PPI that 
was over 50% of the total premium cost. It also said it was paying 8% simple interest on the 
excess commission being refunded as Mrs O had been out pocket for this amount.
Shop Direct offered Mrs O compensation of £78.49 after tax. And it sent Mrs O a cheque for 
this amount.
Mrs O didn't think the amount she had been offered was correct as she had had the account 
with Shop Direct for many years. She brought her concerns to this service to check if the 
offer was fair. She didnt cash the cheque whilst awaiting the outcome of our investigation. From the records provided it seems Mrs Os account was open and the PPI added in 
September 1999. Mrs O says she did complain some time ago about the PPI  being mis-sold 
but recalls being told by Shop Direct it wasnt required to refund any PPI costs because it 
wasnt caught by the rules relating to mis-sold PPI.
It wasnt until 6 April 2007 that catalogue credit finance was regulated and so it is from this 
date that Shop Direct had to comply with the regulations set by the FCA concerning 
catalogue credit and PPI selling associated with this type of credit facility. 
So it is only from April 2007 that Shop Direct has to consider any excess commission 
associated with the PPI on Mrs Os account. Because Shop Direct didn't tell Mrs O about the 
high level of commission, that was at times more than half the cost of Mrs Os PPI 
premiums, that was unfair. Therefore, Shop Direct has to refund any excess commission 
paid by Mrs O on or after 6 April 2007 until the PPI was cancelled in 2017.  
I think what Shop Direct has calculated as the excess commission part of the compensation 
is fair. When it made its initial calculation in June 2019 the 8% simple interest to 
compensate  Mrs O for being out of pocket for this excess commission was also fair, based 
on the date that initial calculation was made. 
However, Mrs O was concerned about the amount of compensation that had been offered 
and could rightly bring her concerns to this service to ask us to look at the offer and consider 
if it was fair. As Mrs O did not cash the cheque sent to her by Shop Direct she remained out 
of pocket for the excess commission amount. And that money has remained in Shop Direct's 
accounts.
I have noted Shop Directs comments about not being responsible for any additional 
commission after it issued the cheque as this could have been cashed at that time. But the 
fact is it wasnt cashed and there was no requirement on Mrs O to cash it whilst awaiting the 
outcome of her complaint to this service. 
Many consumers do not bank cheques until it is clear the amount being paid is correct as 
they do not want to give any indication they are accepting an offer in full and final settlement 
whilst matters remain outstanding.
There is a requirement on Shop Direct to pay compensatory interest on any amount a 
consumer is out of pocket as a result of a business mis-selling PPI or taking excess 
commission. The consumer is entitled to compensatory interest until the offer is agreed in 
final settlement and the payment is cashed. Shop Direct should be fully aware of these 
requirements and so it must update the compensatory interest.
I think it is very regrettable that Shop Direct has not agreed to update the interest which is 
the fair, and required, approach. This has caused further delay in this matter and in reality, it 
is likely to only be a very small amount that is being disputed.
Putting things right
In summary, although Mrs O had her account and the PPI before April 2007, Shop Direct is 
only required to pay the excess commission charged from that date to when the PPI was 
cancelled in 2017. That is what it has done in its calculations.
But it does need to update the compensatory interest it has calculated for the whole period 
Mrs O has been out of pocket. If Shop Direct has already reissued its original cheque, since 
the recommendation of our adjudicator which Mrs O accepted, and that cheque has been 
cashed, then the 8% simple interest needs updating to the date the cheque was cashed.  If the cheque hasnt been reissued or it has not been cashed to the date this decision is 
issued, then to allow time for issuing a cheque, and it being banked, Shop Direct should 
allow an additional 28 days interest, after the date of this decision, when making its final 
calculation of the compensatory interest.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Im directing Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to 
recalculate the compensatory interest due to Mrs O as I have set out above. This must be to 
the date a re-issued cheque was cashed or  to 28 days after the date of this decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman