DRN-3890529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC caused delays with their mortgage. They 
had to move into a hotel for a month until their purchase completed. They ask that Barclays 
compensates them for their accommodation, living and storage costs. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T applied to Barclays for a mortgage in July 2021. Barclays issued a mortgage 
offer a few days later. 
The solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs T wrote to Barclays at the end of July 2021 about the 
estate rent charge for the property. The estate rent charge didnt meet Barclays lending 
requirements and the solicitors proposed obtaining indemnity insurance. The solicitors sent a 
draft indemnity policy which was received by Barclays in early August 2021.
Barclays responded in mid-August 2021 asking for more information about the estate rent 
charge and the reasons for the indemnity insurance. The solicitors provided the information. 
In early September 2021 Barclays said the indemnity insurance wasnt acceptable and it 
needed a deed of variation. On the same day it said it would proceed with the indemnity 
insurance as it had become aware that Mr and Mrs T and their disabled children were living 
in a hotel. The mortgage completed on 9 September 2021.
Our investigator said while Barclays could have responded to the solicitors more quickly it 
completed the mortgage application process within its standard timescales and hadnt 
caused unreasonable delays. Our investigator said Barclays hadnt given Mr and Mrs T any 
assurances about completing the mortgage by a specific date. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter and issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T say Barclays poor service and processes delayed completion of their 
purchase. They had to paid for storage for their belongings and for accommodation in a hotel 
for a month. They say his caused significant stress and their costs amounted to about 
£15,000. Mr and Mrs T say Barclays should pay their costs.
Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed, but I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Barclays to pay Mr and Mrs Ts costs.
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage application was submitted on 16 July 2021. The mortgage 
completed on 9 September 2021, just under eight weeks later. This was within Barclays 
expected timescale. 
Mr and Mrs T incurred costs for temporary accommodation and storage because they 
moved out of their previous property before their purchase completed. While Mr and Mrs T 
havent said why they arranged to move out of their property in mid-August 2021, theres no 
suggestion that Barclays was responsible for this decision. 
Mr and Mrs T moved out of their previous property in mid-August 2021. Theyd have been 
aware when they arranged this that a completion date hadnt been set for their purchase. 
They would reasonably have known that completion might not take place by mid-August 
2021. And that if this was the case theyd need to find temporary accommodation and 
arrange storage for their belongings until their purchase completed. 
Mr and Mrs T might have hoped that their purchase would complete in time for them to avoid 
needing temporary accommodation and storage, or to reduce the time they needed this for. 
But this doesnt mean the overall time taken by Barclays to complete the mortgage was 
unreasonable, or that Barclays had to change its usual timescales to meet Mr and Mrs Ts 
timescales. Theres no evidence that Barclays told Mr and Mrs T it would do this.
Barclays sent a letter and fax to Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor on 3 September 2021 saying the 
indemnity policy wasnt acceptable and a deed of variation would be required. It wrote again 
the same day saying despite the earlier letter it would proceed with the indemnity insurance. 
It said this was because the mortgage adviser had told it that Mr and Mrs T were living in a 
hotel with their two disabled children. 
I agree that Barclays could have responded more quickly to the solicitor. But thats not the 
same as saying that it caused unreasonable delays, or that its responsible for Mr and 
Mrs Ts costs. 
If Barclays had responded more quickly to the solicitors it might have required a deed of 
variation and not agreed to go ahead with the indemnity policy. The deed of variation would 
have had to be agreed with the freeholder and the terms acceptable to Barclays. I dont 
know if this would have been in place in time for an earlier completion. But it seems likely the 
solicitors suggested indemnity insurance because they expected this to be quicker or 
cheaper than a deed of variation. 
Barclays did make errors here. It sent letters on the same day with different information or 
requests, and there were grammatical errors in some of the letters. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs Ts frustration about this, but I dont think these errors delayed their purchase 
completing.
I dont think in the circumstances its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs T. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman