DRN-1761308
 
The complaint
Mr F has complained about a loan he took out with Stagemount Limited (trading as 
Quid Market). He says the loan was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr F took a loan from Quid Market. A summary of Mr Fs borrowing is shown below: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 24/12/2018 outstanding 6 £300.00 £99.99
Mr F has an amount left to pay on the loan. 
Our adjudicator recommended Mr Fs complaint be upheld. They concluded Mr F wouldve 
struggled to repay the loan due to the amount he was already paying from outstanding short-
term loans he held. Quid Market disagreed and said the loan was affordable.
As Quid Market didnt agree, the complaint has come to me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im thinking about reaching the same outcome as the adjudicator but 
wanted to explain how the business should put things right in more detail.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Quid Market lent to 
Mr F. The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for 
credit related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer 
credit providers, such as Quid Market.
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in the guidance, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the 
lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Quid Market told us it asked for details of Mr Fs income and expenses when it agreed loan 
1. It also carried out a credit search. This was the start of the lending relationship between 
the two parties. Mr F provided details about his income and expenditure. The information he 
had declared about his disposable income meant that the amount he was asking to borrow 
for loan 1 and the repayments would have appeared affordable. 
Bearing in mind this was at the start of the lending relationship between Mr F and 
Quid Market and taking into account the loan repayment in relation to Mr Fs declared 
income; the checks - at first glance - might have appeared proportionate.
However, the credit search carried out by Quid Market for loan 1 that I have seen indicated 
Mr F had other short-term finance commitments at that time. The credit report Quid Market 
had carried out was detailed and listed all of the credit that Mr F had held both open and 
closed at that time. There were listed, 4 short term loans that were open at the time Mr F 
was asking them for loan 1. There were clear signs, in my view, that Mr F had had some 
quite serious problems managing his money based on what was listed in the credit search 
results that Quid Market had in front of them. 
The findings of the credit search report for loan 1 ought to have caused Quid Market 
concerns that Mr Fs problems managing money were not historical but rather problems 
managing his finances at that moment. 3 of the 4 outstanding short-term loans had been 
requested by Mr F within the previous month. I also consider the total repayment Mr F would 
have to make on these loans to be a significant amount compared to the income he declared 
to Quid Market when he asked to lend from them.
Quid Market has suggested that one of the outstanding loans would have been repaid before 
the repayment for loan 1 was due, so it discounted that figure from its assessment of the 
loans affordability for Mr F. But Mr F would have had to repay that loan along with the other 
3 open loans and potentially this loan as well from Quid Market within a short period of time, 
putting pressure on his finances. So, I have taken that repayment into account and when I 
consider this, I think I think there was a real risk that Mr F wasnt going to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan he had requested from them.So as a responsible lender, I dont think Quid Market should have agreed loan 1 and should 
put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
Refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on loan 1;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Remove any negative information with regards to loan 1.
Mr F still owes Quid Market some of the principal balance he borrowed on loan 1. 
Quid Market may deduct this from the compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear, that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, whilst 
taking account of any repayments Mr F has made on that loan as though they were applied 
against the principal sum borrowed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid Market must 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Stagemount 
Limited trading as Quid Market to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman