DRN-3521205
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. He says he was the victim of fraud and finds it unbelievable that Barclays just 
wont listen to him.
Background
In October 2021, Mr S account received credits of £645.38 and £4,302.14. The vast majority 
of the funds were immediately transferred out to a crypto-currency account and the 
remainder was withdrawn at a cash machine. Barclays subsequently received a notification 
from the third-party bank which sent the payments to Mr S account stating that the sender of 
the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Barclays reviewed Mr S account. As a result 
of its investigation, Barclays decided to close all of Mr S accounts and also record a fraud 
prevention marker.
Mr S complained when he realised that Barclays had recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. Barclays looked at Mr S complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr S remained 
dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr S allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays has done this 
here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr S 
account in October 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr S was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
When questioned about the activity on his account, Mr S told Barclays that his computer was 
hacked and a threatening message popped up asking him to transfer funds to a crypto-
currency account. He said that he didnt send the funds on. He also confirmed that that he 
hadnt shared his security details with anyone else either. 
After our adjudicator issued her first assessment, where she didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld, Mr S said that Barclays asked him for a code to sort out his mobile 
banking and he hadnt knowingly taken part in fraudulent activity. Furthermore, when our 
adjudicator reiterated her view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld, Mr S then said hed 
been tricked into creating a crypto-currency account by someone he thought was a Barclays 
employee who said Barclays had partnered with this provider to provide a safe place in case 
his account was hacked. He says he was told transfer funds now and then to keep his 
accounts connected.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said and its still not entirely clear to me what hes now 
saying happened. But, in truth, given the wildly inconsistent versions of events hes provided 
throughout the course of the investigation, its difficult to place much weight at all on Mr S 
account of events. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S account was hacked. Indeed, it looks as though Mr S 
account was being used normally right up until the activity in question and there no longer 
appears to be any dispute that Mr S set up a crypto-currency with the provider the fraudulent 
funds were transferred to and that he made the earlier transfers for the smaller amounts. 
Furthermore, even if I take what Mr S says at its strongest, there still a number of 
discrepancies which simply arent supported by the facts and available evidence.  
Firstly, none of what Mr S has said explains how a fraudster would have been able to make 
the larger transfers from Mr S Barclays account to his crypto-currency account, which Mr S 
still maintains he didnt carry out. Indeed, I cant see how these funds could have been 
transferred in this way or accessed without Mr S further co-operation, given they were 
transferred using mobile banking rather than online banking. 
Secondly, the cash machine withdrawal, which accounted for the remainder of the fraudulent 
funds which werent transferred to the crypto-currency account, was made with Mr S debit 
card. And I dont see how an online fraudster would have been able to obtain Mr S debit 
card and PIN to access these funds. In my view, these facts dont line up with Mr S being a 
victim of a ransomware attack, or any other fraud, in the way hes suggested.Im afraid the glaring inconsistencies coupled with the implausibility of what Mr S now says is 
the truth means I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I 
think its more likely than not that he was complicit in the fraudulent activity which took place 
on his account. So I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards Mr S and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But even taking into account the impact 
he says the marker is having on him, I cant ignore the fact that he appears to have been 
complicit in fraudulent activity. So I hope Mr S will understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, as our adjudicator has explained Mr S might find that hes able to open an 
account with another bank as long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full 
Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman