DRN-3766401
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and their decision to cancel her boiler 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J held a boiler insurance policy that was underwritten by Aviva. This policy was 
designed to assist Mrs J in the arranging and cost of repair work needed to her boiler should 
it break down.
In November 2021, Mrs Js boiler received its annual service by a contractor appointed by 
Aviva, who Ill refer to as V. On the service paperwork, there was a note that related to the 
limited access under Mrs Js boiler following upgrades to her kitchen. And V say they made 
Mrs J aware this would need to be changed on this visit, which Mrs J disputes.
In March 2022, Aviva were made aware of this access issue by V. So, Aviva say they wrote 
to Mrs J to explain remedial work was needed to restore sufficient access. On the same day, 
a letter was sent explaining the policy would be cancelled while this work was completed. 
Mrs J says she received the cancellation letter, but not the letter detailing the remedial work 
needed.
In the same month, Mrs Js boiler developed a fault, and Aviva instructed V to attend the 
property. V noted there was limited access and that no remedial work had been completed. 
And as Aviva didnt receive evidence to show Mrs J completed the remedial work during the 
28-day period they allowed, the policy was cancelled on 7 April. Mrs J was unhappy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs J didnt think V made her aware in November 2021 what remedial work was needed to 
ensure her policy remained valid. And she explained she didnt receive the letter from Aviva 
in March 2022 stating she had 28 days to complete this. So, Mrs J didnt think it was fair for 
Aviva to cancel her policy or leave her needing to cover the costs of the repairs required to 
fix the fault. And she wanted to be compensated for this.
Aviva responded and upheld the complaint in part. They thought both they and V had made 
Mrs J reasonably aware remedial work was needed to ensure there was sufficient access to 
the boiler. And as Mrs J hadnt done this, they thought theyd acted in line with the terms of 
the policy when cancelling it. But they did recognise it had taken them four months to make 
Mrs J aware that work was required and so, they offered to refund Mrs J the premiums shed 
paid from November 2021 to March 2022, totalling £112.28. Mrs J remained unhappy with 
this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied V had 
noted, and made Mrs J aware, of the need for remedial work in November 2021. And 
although they recognised Mrs J didnt receive it, they were satisfied Aviva sent Mrs J a letter 
detailing the work she needed to carry out in March 2022. And it wasnt disputed that this 
work wasnt completed, they thought Aviva were fair to cancel the policy and so, they didnt 
think Aviva needed to do anything more.
Mrs J didnt agree. And she provided detailed comments explaining why. This included, but 
is not limited to, her belief that it made no sense for Aviva to send a cancellation letter, and a 
work detailing the work needed, on the same day. And as she received one letter, but not 
the other, she thought it was reasonable to assume the letter detailing the work hadnt been 
sent. So, Mrs J didnt think shed been given a chance to complete the remedial action. Mrs 
J was also unhappy shed been left without boiler cover between November 2021  March 
2022 without her knowledge and wanted to be compensated for the risk this created. As Mrs 
J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs J. I appreciate Mrs J took 
out the insurance policy with the aim of mitigating the inconvenience and financial impact of 
a potential boiler breakdown. And I recognise Mrs J had no intention of cancelling the policy 
herself, as she wanted the security it provided.
So, when she was made aware her policy would be cancelled, and then when she realised 
Aviva wouldnt repair the fault to her boiler despite her paying her policy premiums, I can 
understand the frustration and upset she wouldve felt. And I can appreciate why this would 
lead Mrs J to feel as though Aviva had acted unfairly and so, why Mrs J feels as though she 
should be compensated for this.
But for me to say Aviva should compensate Mrs J, I first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, I need to be satisfied they failed to act within the terms and conditions 
of the policy Mrs J held when they took the decision to cancel it. Or, if I think they did act 
within these, that it was unfair for them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case. And Ill explain why.
Ive first focused on the main point in contention, which centres around whether Mrs J was 
made aware that remedial work was needed to ensure there was sufficient access to her 
boiler. Mrs J doesnt think she was, while Aviva dispute this. In particular, much of the 
dispute centres around conversations held in person and disputes on whether letters were 
received, both of which Im unable to know for sure exactly what did happen. So, because of 
this, Ive focused on the evidence I have available to me, alongside the comments provided 
by both parties, to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the balance 
of probabilities.
Ive seen the job sheet from the service V performed on Mrs Js boiler in November 2021. 
This contains the note Code IMI Access Under Boiler which V has said means that there 
was limited access to the underneath of the boiler. And V have said this was made clear to 
Mrs J on the day of the service, with them explaining remedial work would be needed to 
provide sufficient access moving forwards.
Mrs J disputes this and as Ive explained above, Im unable to say for certain exactly what V 
did say to Mrs J. And Im in agreement with Mrs J that the note on the job sheet doesnt 
explain exactly what access specifications would be needed and so, I dont think from this 
Mrs J wouldve been able to know what work to carry out. But crucially, Mrs J was given a copy of this job sheet. And I dont think its likely that V wouldve provided this, without 
discussing the note first. And even if they did, I think the note is enough to suggest to Mrs J 
that she needed to discuss this with Aviva, as Aviva also provided Mrs J with her boiler 
service plan. Its important to note this service plan is entirely separate to the insurance 
policy she held and is not something our service is able to discuss or comment upon.
So, on the balance of probability, I think its more likely than not that Mrs J was made aware 
of the access issues and so, I think its reasonable for me to expect Mrs J to make further 
enquiries to understand what she needed to do. But I cant see that she did.
Despite this, I wouldve expected Aviva to follow this up with Mrs J directly. And I can see 
they did so, but not until some four months later, which Aviva accept was an unnecessary 
delay. Ill discuss this delay aspect later within this decision.
I recognise Mrs J says she didnt receive the letter detailing the remedial works that were 
necessary. But I can see Aviva did send this letter, and that it was addressed correctly. So, 
while I dont dispute Mrs Js testimony, I dont think Aviva can be held at fault for any issue 
with delivery as this would be the responsibility of the postal service.
But even if Mrs J didnt receive this letter, she did receive the letter explaining her policy had 
been cancelled. This was sent in tandem with the remedial work letter, as Aviva cancelled 
the policy for 28 days, to allow Mrs J time to carry out the work. So, I think Mrs J had the 
chance to speak to Aviva about this. And I can see she did, although Ive been unable to 
listen to the calls.
But I have seen the call notes, and these show Mrs J was aware of the cancellation. And I 
can see during this 28 -day period, V did attend Mrs Js property due to the boiler fault and 
again, Mrs J was told that access to the boiler was the issue. So, I think Mrs J was 
reasonably aware there was access issues. And from this visit, Mrs J wouldve still had a 
further two weeks to complete the remedial work needed, but I cant see that she did. 
And I can see in the terms and conditions of the policy that if the remedial work isnt carried 
out that Aviva would no longer cover repairs to the boiler and that at the next renewal they 
would look to offer a similar policy without boiler cover. And in a situation where cover 
without boiler cover isnt available, then the policy would be cancelled. 
In this situation, the access issue was recognised and remedial work needed at the service 
in November 2021, around the same time the policy was renewed. And the policy was for 
boiler cover only, which could no longer be covered in line with the term Ive described 
above as Mrs J didnt evidence the completion of the remedial work. So, I think Aviva were 
fair to cancel the policy at this point, to prevent Mrs J from continuing to pay premiums for a 
policy that essentially didnt cover anything. And I think they acted in line with the terms and 
conditions when doing so.
But its accepted by Aviva that Mrs J shouldve been notified regarding the remedial work 
much sooner. And to acknowledge this, theyve refunded the premiums Mrs J paid, to 
compensate her for the fact she paid for a policy that wouldnt have covered any claim she 
made in this time. I think this offer is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve directed had 
it not already been made.
I appreciate Mrs J would also like to be compensated for the fact her and her family had no 
cover over the winter months and the impact this may have had, had the boiler broken down 
during this time. But crucially, the boiler didnt. And our service is only able to consider 
compensation for actual loss and inconvenience. Mrs Js scenario is hypothetical and 
fortunately, not one she had to endure. So, I dont think Aviva need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs J was hoping for. And I appreciate Mrs J has since 
had to purchase a new boiler as well as cover the costs of the breakdown in March 2022. 
But I dont think these costs were placed on Mrs J because of anything Aviva did wrong in 
this situation. I also want to reassure Mrs J that, while I may not have commented on every 
point shes made during her conversations with our investigator, I have considered them all 
at length before reaching my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman