DRN-1957350
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to not refund him after he lost £20,000 
to an investment scam.
The bank says its not responsible as Mr P authorised the payment himself and it could not 
have reasonably intervened.  
What happened
Mr P was interested in investing £20,000 to support himself and his family in the future. He 
had his health in mind, describing himself as a disabled man with a life-limiting condition. 
Mr P researched investment opportunities online and found a company offering a product he 
was interested in, described as a fixed interest rate secured bond. He contacted the 
company and discussed the details of the investment opportunity. The investment was linked 
to cryptocurrency mining. He was also given account details hed need to transfer his money 
to if he wished to invest.
Mr P checked the company on Companies House and it appeared to be legitimately 
registered in the UK. He also checked to see where his money would be going and found the 
receiving bank was regulated by the FCA. Mr P was reassured by what he found and was 
persuaded to invest, believing hed carried out sufficient due diligence. He believed hed be 
getting a return of 12% on his investment.
On 18 October 2018 Mr P sent £20,000 to the account details provided by the company. He 
used his online banking to make the payment, setting up a new payee to do so. Hed moved 
money between his savings and current accounts in order to facilitate the payment. His 
current account balance was reduced to £84.35.
Mr P had been due to receive a dividend pay-out in January 2019 and had contact with the 
company around that time. But the payment never arrived. He continued to follow up with the 
company, but Mr P realised hed been the victim of a scam. He contacted HSBC for help.
HSBC looked into what had happened but said there was nothing it could do to help Mr P. It 
said hed authorised the payment and sent the funds willingly. And, having contacted the 
receiving bank, there were no funds remaining to return to Mr P.
Mr P was unhappy with the banks response and so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened and thought the complaint should 
be upheld. He said the payment out of Mr Ps account was sufficiently unusual  in terms of 
size, payment method and the balance it left in the current account  that HSBC ought to 
have questioned the payment with Mr P.
The investigator went on to say that had HSBC discussed the purpose of the payment with 
Mr P the scam would more likely than not have been avoided. He noted the payment 
method, the intended purpose of the money and the fact it was being sent to an unregulated 
company for what appeared to be a regulated activity would have been significant flags for 
concern to the bank. He thought HSBC ought to have raised these concerns with Mr P and, 
had it done so, he wouldnt have gone on to send the money.
As such the investigators recommendation was that HSBC refund the £20,000 lost along 
with a payment of 8% simple interest (calculated from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement). He also recommended a payment of £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr P given he felt HSBC ought to have prevented the loss from occurring.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators findings. It felt the expectations being placed upon it 
were beyond what was reasonable and referred to case law to support its position. It also 
said it didnt believe the payment was suspicious in any case. HSBC also said it doubted 
whether warnings would have dissuaded Mr P from continuing, particularly given the level of 
research he said hed done on the company.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mr P authorised the scam payment of £20,000. He was duped by 
the scammers into sending money for an investment that didnt exist. 
 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr P was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his online banking and security credentials to request the 
payment. So, although he did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr P is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
I am aware that HSBC considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected 
of it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case. Our fair and reasonable remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow legal duties considered in 
that and other court cases. In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare applies to this case, however the broad legal 
position that a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice at the time) is an example of that.
Im satisfied the payment out of Mr Ps account was sufficiently unusual that HSBC ought to 
have stepped in to question what was happening. Our investigator has previously explained 
the features of the payment that make it unusual and highlight it as a payment that was at 
risk of fraud. Ive not seen sufficient evidence from HSBC to persuade me the payment 
wasnt unusual. It was significantly larger than any payment out of Mr Ps account. And hed 
only made one other payment in the same way in the preceding six months. Its also the 
case that it almost clears the balance of his account. 
HSBC has argued that people will make genuine payments of this nature and there will be 
no scam involved. I completely accept that as being the case. But if the bank doesnt 
question payments that might be at risk then it will be unable to fulfil its duty to protect 
customers. Im not saying that means it must check each and every payment out of its 
customers accounts. But here, considering the individual circumstances of this case, I 
believe it ought to have contacted Mr P to check he wasnt at risk of falling victim to fraud.
Im also satisfied that contact from HSBC would have made a difference here. Im not 
persuaded by HSBCs argument that Mr Ps own testimony about the due diligence carried 
out means he would have continued to make the payment regardless. I acknowledge this is 
a finely balanced case. The scam was sophisticated in nature given the lengths the 
fraudsters went to: setting up websites, creating brochures and videos and registering details 
with Companies House.
Mr P had carried out checks he believed to be sufficient. But the bank ought to have pointed 
out some concerns with the intended purpose of the payment had it asked Mr P about the 
details. The bank ought to have been aware of similar investment scams at the time. And as 
the expert in the relationship Id expect it to relay its knowledge to Mr P in order to help 
prevent financial harm. It ought to have explained the risks of making such a payment and 
that an unregulated firm offering bonds seemed very suspicious. 
The bank could have asked Mr P if hed checked that the business he was intending to 
invest with, or any intermediary, was regulated and listed on the FCA website. Mr P could 
only have said he hadnt checked or didnt know and it seems likely he would have then 
checked, if prompted by the bank. He would have then found that there was no regulated 
party involved and Id expect the bank to have then outlined the risks and concerns about 
proceeding, including the heightened risk of a scam. 
Mr P has said he was promised a 12% rate of return on his investment. Ive found online, 
from some basic searching, that the company appeared to have been offering returns of 9-
12% per year. Had HSBC asked questions about the intended investment and been 
presented with this information Id expect the banks concerns to escalate and for there to be 
a clear explanation to Mr P that what he was doing bore the hallmarks of a scam. To be 
clear, Im not saying here that HSBC ought to have researched the rate of return itself, it only 
needed to ask Mr P. And I believe that would have been a reason for the bank to have been 
concerned and to have prompted a warning.
I believe the bank could have also questioned the payee name. Whilst its not possible for 
HSBC to have checked the actual name of the receiving account holder, the payee name 
given by Mr P suggests that the money was being sent to a foreign exchange company. That 
seems to be somewhat removed form Mr Ps intended purpose for the payment. Had HSBC carried out these actions I dont believe Mr P would have gone ahead. He had 
tried to be cautious by researching the company he intended to invest with. And so, I believe 
its fair and reasonable to conclude he would have taken on board the significant new 
information and warnings from a professional banker, particularly at the mention of potential 
scams of a similar nature. 
I believe that is further reinforced when considering Mr Ps personal circumstances. He was 
investing his life savings to protect the future of his family in light of his disability. And so it 
seems he would have been particularly intent on doing the right thing.
Putting things right
Ive found that HSBC ought to have stepped in to question the payment and that, had it done 
so, the scam would have been prevented. As such, HSBC should now refund Mr P the full 
amount lost to the scam. 
It should also pay interest on that loss at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement. Im satisfied that Mr P has been deprived of the use of this 
money and that it would have been used elsewhere, rather than have simply remained in his 
account.  
HSBC also should also pay the £250 compensation recommended by the investigator. 
Whilst this situation has been created by a fraudster, and its the scam that is the source of 
all the upset suffered, I find HSBC should have prevented it from happening. Had it done so 
Mr P would not have had to deal with the loss initially or suffer its consequences for two 
years. And given his health condition I can see how this will have been a particularly difficult 
time for Mr P.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman