DRN-4340769
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank Scotland plc trading as Halifax reduced the credit limit on his 
credit card accounts and then closed one account.    
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont go into detail about 
them here. Instead, I will focus on my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered the credit limit reductions on Mr Hs accounts. Account ending *8074 
was reduced from £9,900 to £500 in July 2021, whereas the limit on account ending *9560 
was reduced from £11,000 to £500 in February 2022. Mr H has queried why these 
reductions happened at different times.
Halifax has said that it reviews accounts at different times, and this is why the limits were not 
all amended in unison. Each account is reviewed based on the overall behaviour score for 
the account, which will be made up of a number of factors including conduct on the account 
as well as information from credit referencing agencies. Halifax has explained that it is 
unable to separate the weighting of each factor as it is automated by their system, so they 
cannot provide Mr H with an exact reason as to why the limits were reduced.
I have to consider whether I think Halifax has made an error in the circumstances or acted 
unreasonably when it made the decision to reduce Mr Hs credit limits. The terms and 
conditions of the accounts state that Halifax is able to make changes to the credit limits for a 
number of reasons, including if they are told about changes to Mr Hs financial status by 
credit reference agencies.
Account *8074 was reviewed in July 2021, prior to Halifax being made aware of the fraud. It 
based its decision to reduce the credit limit on the information available to it at that time. I 
appreciate we now know Mr H had been the unfortunate victim of fraud, and its likely this 
was a factor in the decision to reduce the credit limit, but I cant agree that Halifax made an 
error when it relied on the behavioural score that was relevant at the time.
Similarly, with account ending *9560, the review occurred in February 2022, which was a few 
months after Mr H made Halifax aware of the fraud. Again, the behaviour score is what 
would have informed the decision to reduce the credit limit. Mr H feels this was based on 
information that should have already been amended on his credit file and he had an active 
complaint about this. But due to the way in which the behaviour score works, it is not 
possible to know precisely how much can be attributed to the incorrect information Halifax 
was reporting, especially as a third-party was also reporting incorrect information. I 
appreciate the third-party is in some way linked to Halifax, but they are separate legal 
entities, and this complaint is against Halifax only, so I can only consider their specific 
actions. And, on balance, I think it was reasonable that Halifax relied on the behavioural 
score available to it at the time of the review. 
Mr H is also unhappy that Halifax made the decision to close account ending *8074. As the 
credit card was due to be renewed in January 2021, the account was reviewed automatically 
in November 2021. Therefore only *8074 was reviewed and *9560 wasnt. Halifax explained 
that it had decided not to issue Mr H with a new credit card in January 2022 and that the 
account would then close on 28 February 2022. It therefore gave him the two-month closure 
notice that it is required to give as part of the terms and conditions of the account. These 
state that Halifax is entitled to close Mr Hs account as long as it provides two months 
notice, which it did on this occasion. So, I dont think it has made an error, though I 
appreciate Mr H feels it is as a direct result of the fraud he experienced. 
Ive gone on to consider what Halifax has offered once Mr H made them aware that he felt 
the information they had based their reviews of his accounts on was incorrect. I understand 
Mr H would simply like for his previous balances and account to be reinstated without any 
need for a financial review, however this would not be possible as all lending decisions need 
to be based on what is affordable for a consumer. I cannot comment on what Mr H says 
other organisations have done as I dont have oversight of their decisions. Halifax has 
offered to review Mr Hs accounts again, either by him contacting their personal lending 
department by phone or by sending them information about his finances as well as 
permission for them to conduct a credit search. If Mr H would like his finances reviewed. He 
should speak with Halifax directly.
On balance, I think this would be a fair resolution in the circumstances. It would allow Halifax 
to review Mr Hs financial circumstances as they are today, to ensure they provide him with 
the level of credit that he is able to safely afford. 
My final decision
I do not think Bank Scotland plc trading as Halifax made an error when it reduced his credit 
limits and closed his credit card account.
If Mr H would like to have his accounts reviewed, he should contact Bank Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax directly to arrange this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman