DRN-3592189
The complaint
Mr Js complaint concerns spread betting accounts held with IG Index Limited. He says he 
was wrongly categorised as a professional client, then pressured to refer new clients to IG 
and trade on their accounts using monies solicited from these clients.
What happened
In 2018 Mr J opened a retail spread betting account with IG. Later that year he says a 
member of IGs staff began encouraging him to become a professional client. He says he 
made clear this wasnt appropriate for him, and in any event he wouldnt qualify. However, 
the staff member indicated they could nevertheless arrange the change to the account by 
sidestepping normal processes.
Mr J says the resulting change in status led to him trading financial products he had little 
experience of and which exposed him to an unsuitable level of risk, with a disregard by IG of 
regulatory requirements and its duty of care towards him as a customer. 
He further says the staff member then aggressively encouraged him to solicit friends to open 
accounts with IG in return for rewards. The staff member tried to circumvent IGs processes, 
but as the people Mr J introduced to IG failed to qualify as professional clients, they were 
instead signed up as international clients, meaning that Mr J received nothing from IG. He 
says he was also persuaded to solicit money from these friends, to use to trade on his own 
account.
Mr J says the subsequent closure of these accounts caused strain on his friendships, as 
these people were unable to recoup their losses. They are now pressuring him to reimburse 
them, which has had a very serious effect on his mental health and well-being. 
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded that the complaint should be upheld, 
in part. In brief, he said:
He wasnt persuaded that the evidence supported a finding that Mr J was coerced 
into applying for professional status. It showed hed asked for a professional account 
and was provided with information about the process by IG. No calls took place with 
the member of staff alleged to have pressured him until after the account was 
changed.  
The investigator had then considered the relevant rules from the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) (at 3.5.3), along with the 
rules of The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) that said that firms 
should avoid self-certification by the client and seek a more thorough analysis of their 
knowledge and experience. The COBS rules set out the conditions that needed to be 
met for a client to by granted professional status  any two of three criteria, those 
being:
oThe client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant 
market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four 
quarters.
oThe size of the clients financial instrument portfolio defined as including cash 
deposits and financial instruments, exceeds EUR 500,000.
oThe client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or 
services envisaged.  
  
The investigator noted that IG had determined that Mr J didnt meet the portfolio size 
criteria, but it was satisfied by his trading history. In respect of the third criterion, 
professional experience, he initially said hed worked for a financial institution 
carrying out financial analysis. This prompted IG to seek more detail of his 
experience, specifically in spread bets, CFDs, Forex and derivatives. In response, 
Mr J confirmed hed worked as a customer manager and provided a copy of a 
contract showing his job title as Customer Advisor. He also said, in part, that his role 
as a customer manager/adviser allowed me to gain knowledge about risk-based 
investments which included stocks and shares, commodities, Gilts, indices and more. 
(my employer) saw me undertaking investment training so that I was able to advise 
my clients on how to make the best of their investment portfolios.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that the information provided to IG by Mr J 
regarding his professional experience had been sufficient to meet the criteria of 
having knowledge of the transactions or services envisaged. There was nothing in it 
that demonstrated knowledge of the spread bets, CFDs, Forex and derivatives that 
IG had specifically asked about.
This being so, the investigator concluded that IG should not have allowed Mr J to 
become a professional client.
The investigator also considered the other issues raised by Mr J. He said that he didnt feel 
the evidence supported that the IG staff member had acted aggressively. He could see that 
IGs recommend a friend scheme had been discussed with Mr J but not that anything had 
been forced upon him.
The investigator said he wasnt able to consider Mr Js concerns about the set up and 
management of accounts based abroad, as they would need to be looked at by the 
appropriate bodies in the relevant countries. Further, complaints about accounts belonging 
to other individuals would need to be brought by the account holders. 
In respect of the IG staff member encouraging Mr J or others to borrow money with which to 
trade, the investigator said hed seen nothing in the evidence  specifically the transcripts of 
communications  that showed thered been any encouragement. While the staff member 
had appeared to be aware of money being borrowed, it didnt appear to have been at his 
suggestion. The investigator conceded that thered been a degree of ambiguity in some of 
the staff members comments and he couldve been clearer, but overall he felt there was 
nothing to show that hed encouraged Mr J or anyone else to lie as part of the application 
process.  
As the investigator concluded that Mr Js complaint should be upheld in part, specifically in 
respect of IG incorrectly categorising Mr J as a professional client, he proposed that the 
matter be put right by IG calculating what Mr Js losses wouldve been if hed continued to 
trade as a retail client rather than a professional client and the difference paid to Mr J. The 
investigator also felt that IGs decision to categorise Mr J as a professional client had caused 
him a degree of distress for which a payment of £500 was warranted. 
Mr J broadly accepted the investigators opinion. However, IG disagreed with the 
conclusions hed reached regarding Mr Js professional upgrade. In brief, IG said:
The investigator had misstated the professional experience criteria as requiring an 
in-depth knowledge of the transactions or services envisaged. It said this was not 
the case. Rather, it was simply knowledge of the transactions and services in a 
professional role that was required.
In any event, Mr J hadnt complained that hed not had the requisite professional 
knowledge. His complaint was focussed on his treatment by the IG member of staff. 
It was not correct to say that thered been nothing to suggest that Mr J had the 
requisite knowledge. Hed provided evidence and information regarding his financial 
career and while there was an unavoidable degree of subjectivity the relevant rules 
allowed firms to use discretion when determining whether the criteria had been 
satisfied. 
It had been reasonable to conclude from what Mr J had told it about his experience 
that his role would have required knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged. It noted that the business he worked for in the role of customer adviser 
had been involved in derivatives and other forms of complex trading. And there was 
nothing to suggest the information provided by Mr J had been inaccurate, or that it 
shouldnt be accepted in good faith.
An audit performed in 2018 and a FCA review in 2019 had shown no failings on the 
part of IGs professional upgrade processes.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He still didnt think there was enough 
to say Mr Js role was such that it requires knowledge of derivatives and margin trading. He 
didnt think the job title of customer advisor would necessarily have meant Mr J wouldve 
dealt with the relevant transactions and service in a professional capacity. He felt IG should 
have dome some more research, as although the business Mr J worked for did have some 
involvement with complex products, there was nothing to suggest Mr J was personally 
involved in this. He also confirmed that Mr J had raised the issue of whether a professional 
status was appropriate for him in initial discussions about the complaint.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
As Ive set out above, the investigator partly upheld the complaint based on what he saw as 
IG incorrectly recategorising Mr J as a professional client. Although Mr J made several other 
allegations concerning how he was dealt with by IG, specifically by one particular member of 
staff, the investigator didnt consider the evidence supported a finding that Mr J had been 
pressured, or otherwise unduly encouraged, to open his account, upgrade to professional 
status, persuade others to open accounts or borrow money to trade. 
Looking at the evidence available, while I recognise Mr J has been very distressed by this 
matter, I too am unable to conclude, on balance, that the staff member acted incorrectly in 
the ways alleged by Mr J  although I can see that on occasion his behaviour and language 
could perhaps have been misconstrued, an issue that IG acknowledged and indicated it was 
taking internal action to address.Turning to the issue of the categorisation of Mr J as a professional client, I dont consider 
that it was reasonable for IG to conclude from the information available to it that Mr J met the 
criteria of having worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services envisaged. 
Its clear IG took steps to clarify Mr Js work experience, beyond the initial information he 
provided. It emailed him to say: 
for us to categorise you as a Professional, we need to understand more about your
Professional experience. The criteria requires that you work or have worked in the financial
sector for at least one year in a professional position, which requires knowledge of
Spreadbets, CFDs, Forex or derivatives. Please could you give us more information as to
how the position listed on your application required a knowledge of these products?
In response, Mr J, as noted above, spoke of working in a role that allowed him to gain 
knowledge about risk-based investments. He mentioned stocks and shares, commodities, 
Gilts, indices and more. But despite having been specifically asked by IG about 
Spreadbets, CFDs, Forex or derivatives he made no reference to these more complex 
products.
It appears IG based its acceptance of Mr Js professional experience on the likelihood of his 
role as a customer advisor requiring knowledge of complex products, as his employer was a 
business engaged, to some extent, in business relating to such products. But I dont think 
thats a reasonable conclusion to reach. 
It is, or course, quite possible that Mr J may, in carrying out his customer advisor/manager 
role have acquired some knowledge of more complex investment products. But I dont think 
its likely it was a role that required knowledge of the products. I think the rule is intended to 
describe a professional role that cannot effectively be carried out without knowledge of the 
products  in other words, the knowledge is necessary for carrying out the role. A customer 
adviser role, particularly in respect of the products Mr J mentioned, does not seem to meet 
that criteria. At very least I think his response to IGs quite specific enquiry shouldve 
prompted it to seek further clarification.   
I note IGs comment about there not being a need for the knowledge to be in-depth, but I 
nevertheless dont think it likely Mr Js role required knowledge of the products at all, in-
depth or otherwise.  
That being so, I find that IG acted incorrectly in categorising Mr J as a professional client and 
uphold the complaint in that respect.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that even if IG hadnt recategorised Mr Js account its likely he 
would still have continued to trade in much the same way as he did. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as follows. IG should rework Mr Js account to show what losses he wouldve 
incurred had he been trading (between July 2018 and May 2020) with a lower amount of 
leverage, as is the case with retail client accounts. IG should then pay to Mr J the difference between what those losses wouldve been had his account been a retail client account, and 
what they actually were as an elective professional client. 
IG must also add to this a payment of £500 to Mr J to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by its decision to allow him to trade as a professional client. I 
consider this to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that IG Index Limited should pay Mr J the amount produced by the above 
calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that IG Index Limited pays Mr J the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. IG Index Limited doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr J can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct IG Index 
Limited to pay compensation to Mr J as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman