DRN-3507012
The complaint
Mr E complains about a loan with Honeycomb Finance Limiteds (HFL).
What happened
In April 2018 a salesman from a company I will call E visited Mr E at home. The purpose of 
the visit was for the salesman to tell Mr E more about an online educational course provided 
by E. The course is meant to complement and support the studies of pupils at least up until 
GCSE level.
Mr Es position is that he was interested in the course for his school age children, and one of 
the things that clinched it for him was that he was told by the salesman that the course was 
cancellable at any time. It appears that Mr E valued flexibility in relation to the course, as he 
was mindful that it was there to supplement the education his children were already 
receiving in school. 
English is not Mr Es first language so he had a translator present so he could communicate 
with the salesman. According to Mr E the translator read and translated everything that was 
presented to him by the salesman. Part of Mr Es stance is that most of the written 
contractual documents Es salesman subsequently submitted to both E and HFL was not 
shown to his translator on the day.
Mr E agreed to purchase the course. But he is clear he did not sign anything with an 
electronic signature. Moreover, crucially, Mr E indicates that he thought he was paying as he 
went along for the course by direct debit. He thought he was on a pay as you go deal 
because that was in line with what hed been told about the course being cancellable at any 
time. 
In September 2020 HFL contacted Mr E about a loan it said it had with him. In particular, it 
was contacting him about the arrears on the loan repayments. At this point Mr E told HFL 
that he knew nothing about the loan and asked it to cancel it. When it did not Mr E cancelled 
his direct debits. HFL continued to chase him for payment. 
HFLs stance is that Mr E was never told the course was cancellable at any time. Rather, he 
signed up for a lifetime licence with E and this was to be paid for by means of a fixed sum 
point of sale loan from it. Moreover, he entered knowingly and willingly into the loan with it to 
pay for this course and he electronically signed paperwork on the day to prove it. Further, it 
points to the fact that Mr E contacted it in July 2018 to ask it about a direct debit for the loan 
repayments which he did not recognise. HFL tells us Mr E did not object at this point or 
suggest he knew nothing about an agreement with it. On this basis HFLs stance is that it is 
entitled to rely on the loan, and it does not agree to cancel it.
Dissatisfied, Mr E complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es complaint. He was satisfied that the loan had 
been misrepresented to Mr E and that HFL was responsible for this. Therefore our 
investigator recommended that Mr Es complaint be upheld.
Mr E accepted our investigators recommendation, HFL did not. In summary its objections 
were as follows. 
HFL suggested Mr Es account of event was inconsistent. For example, it mentioned 
again that Mr E spoke to it in July 2018 asking it about the direct debits and what 
they were for. It told him then that the direct debits related to the course with E. Yet in 
September 2020 Mr E suggested he had no knowledge of the loan, which could not 
be correct because the matter had already been explained to him in July 2018. It 
also suggested it was significant that Mr E had not complained to it between July 
2018 and September 2020 given he says he did not agree to the loan.
Moreover, Mr E had, according to it, signed the loan agreement which by itself should 
be taken as showing he agreed and accepted the loan. Furthermore, the loan 
agreement set out Mr Es right to withdraw and to a cooling off period, yet hed not 
asked for either at the time.
HFLs records show Mr E signed for the loan in April 2018. Those same records 
show it sent a welcome letter to Mr E in May 2018. In HFLs opinion the welcome 
letter, amongst other things, made it clear that he had taken out a loan with it. In 
addition, from HFLs perspective this letter ought to have made it clear to Mr E that 
the finance was not cancellable at any time. Therefore, if this letter conflicted with 
what hed been told by Es salesman it would have expected him to have contacted it 
then.
HFL points out that all the direct debit payments went to HFL and this in turn showed 
the relationship between them.
Mr E paid off the loan in full after complaining about it which does not indicate that he 
was misled about the loan.
The initial information that HFL received about Mr Es complaint suggested that Mr E 
wanted to cancel the loan in March 2020 once his son no longer needed the course. 
This to it suggests that Mr E knew about the loan all along.
Mr E first tried to cancel the loan in April 2020 according to HFL, Mr E explained he 
wanted to do this due to financial difficulties he was experiencing due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. It appears Mr E contacted E to do this and he was told to contact the 
finance company. Mr E did not appear to express surprise about the involvement of 
a finance company. Moreover, it was not until September 2020 that Mr E contacted 
HFL. Given this timeline HFLs point is that Mr E did not show the sense of urgency it 
might have expected from someone who says they never took out the loan with it.
HFL tells us its records show the conversation it had with Mr E in July 2018 was not 
the first conversation it had with him about arrears. In these earlier conversations he 
never mentioned misrepresentation.
HFL questions how we have assessed the evidence we have got. Specifically, it 
suggested our investigator had relied solely on Mr Es recollections about verbal 
misrepresentation.
HFL asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at Mr Es complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome
In a nutshell Mr E complains that he was given incorrect information by E about the contract 
with E. Further he complains that E omitted to mention anything about the loan agreement 
with HFL. Mr E suggests both the act of commission and omission were misrepresentation. 
He suggests he relied on the false information and this made him enter into the contracts.. 
On that basis he wants the contract to be cancelled with nothing further owed by him. HFLs 
stance is that Mr E was given correct information about both contracts and only started to 
complain once he no longer wanted to be a party to the contracts. Moreover it suggests the 
written evidence supports its stance. And Mr Es behaviour post contract contradicts what he 
tells us about knowing nothing about the loan at the time the contracts were made. 
Therefore it is entitled to continue to rely on the finance contract and to pursue Mr E for 
payment.
The positions of the parties are very far apart. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I have to take account of relevant law when I make a decision. On the face of it, although I 
accept Mr E denies it, Mr E has a point of sale loan with HFL. As a result of the loan, in 
principle, Mr E has rights against HFL under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75). The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr E has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that is E he can also bring a like 
claim against HFL provided certain conditions are met. Therefore in the context of this 
complaint Section 75 is relevant law.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Es complaint, Ive taken 
Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court might reach if Mr E pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
In addition E acted as a credit broker in relation to the loan between Mr E and HFL. This 
means that under further relevant law here Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
((Section 56) HFL can be held to account for misrepresentations made by E as a credit 
broker before Mr E entered into the loan. I have also taken this relevant law into account.
Misrepresentation in this context means a false statement of fact that induced Mr E to 
contract.
For these reasons, if I thought that the contracts had been misrepresented to Mr E by E Id 
think it was fair and reasonable to ask HFL to put this right.
Moreover E had specific regulatory duties as a credit broker. Amongst other things E had to 
give Mr E adequate explanations of the nature of the agreement he was entering into. I also 
think the regulatory guidance for credit brokers about the potential pitfalls involved in broking 
finance, including where the salesperson is credit broking on a commission basis, in a 
consumers home is also relevant. If I was persuaded that E had not complied with these 
requirements that would also make me find it was fair and reasonable that HFL should take 
responsibility to put things right.
Mr Es main point is that Es salesman told him that the service contract that is the contract 
with E, was cancellable at any time. He suggests he therefore thought he was paying as he 
went along. He also suggests at no time was he told he was entering into a finance agreement with a third party HFL to pay for the service contact. He indicates but for these 
misrepresentations he would not have entered into the service contract.
Mr Es version of events relies mainly on what he tells us he was told prior to the contract. By 
their very nature such alleged verbal misrepresentations are hard to substantiate, I think this, 
in part, is what HFL meant when it objected to how it thought our investigator had dealt with 
the evidence. 
However, just because there are evidential difficulties with verbal misrepresentations that 
does not mean I have to entirely discount what Mr E says, or automatically prefer the written 
evidence. Rather I think I therefore have to assess this aspect on the basis of the balance of 
probabilities.  When I do that I think I can look at the consistency of what Mr E says and 
whether his behaviour and the behaviour of others fits with what he says about verbal 
misrepresentation. 
Moreover, Mr Es account of what happened is a first-hand account and I can think about 
that when deciding on what weight to give what he says. I note that HFL could have asked 
Es salesman to give his first-hand account too, but it did not.
Mr Es version of events about what he was told on the day the salesman came to visit him 
has been consistent. Furthermore, I think it likely in the circumstances that he would be able 
remember with accuracy the key messages from that meeting. As I have already mentioned 
I have no account from the salesman about his recollections of the day. Although I think HFL 
has had a fair opportunity to provide this.
But I dont just have Mr Es account of the sales process, I can also look at wider relevant 
circumstances I can  take on board that this service has seen several complaints about the 
sales practices of E which suggest that Es salespeople did not always give clear information 
to prospective consumers about the educational course and the finance taken out to pay for 
it. This fits with Mr Es version of events. This also suggests that either through design or 
through poor explanation E misrepresented what it was selling and how it would be paid for.
Further, I find it difficult to understand why Mr E might have committed himself to a lifetime 
agreement in this way given that E did apparently sell pay as you go subscriptions to its 
service. Mr Es need for the service was presumably time limited he would need it only for as 
long as his children were in primary and then secondary education. 
For all these reasons when I weigh up all the information I have about the what most likely 
happened in the sales meeting I am more persuaded by Mr Es account of events than I am 
by HFLs.
That said I accept that both the written information and the conduct of the parties after the 
contract was made is also significant. 
I do agree that as a starting point that when a person reads and signs an agreement  they 
are representing that they understand the terms of the agreement and they are agreeing to 
be bound by them. That seems to be what HFL is saying is the start point here. However, Mr 
Es position is that he did not see, read, or sign the agreement for the point of sale loan or 
the service contract. Therefore just because the loan agreement and the service contract 
were signed does not necessarily mean, in this instance, I can take it as read that he signed 
either contract. What Mr E says about wanting the flexibility of being able to cancel the 
service contract and stop the payments seems to suggest he would have been unlikely to 
have signed up for a loan or a lifetime licence in these circumstances.
The written information does set out what Mr E appears to have bought from E. But that 
does not necessarily mean that he knew about this or agreed to it. It seems that there are 
five contractual documents but four out of the five documents which includes the application 
form and the loan agreement, which I consider to be the key documents are electronically 
signed. This could fit with the scenario that Mr E outlines that he never saw or signed these 
documents. Moreover, this also fits with complaints this service has seen about the occasions when E on balance misrepresented what it was selling, and the salesman 
appears to have signed everything electronically for an unwitting consumer.
When I look at the written contractual documents I am not satisfied that they represent what 
Mr E was told about the deal.
HFL has highlighted Mr Es behaviour after the event. I think it is fair to note the obvious fact 
that this behaviour took place after any misrepresentation would have occurred. So this 
behaviour does not speak directly as to whether a misrepresentation occurred. Rather if 
behaviour after the event is not consistent with what the parties say happened at the time it 
could negatively impact on the weight I am able to place on what the parties say happened 
prior to the contract being made. In other words, if Mr E says one thing happened but then 
his later behaviour suggests otherwise that weakens his stance. HFL has highlighted several 
instances where it suggests Mr Es post contract behaviour undermines what he says about 
verbal misrepresentations made by E. Ill look at each in turn.
I think HFLs account of the July 2018 telephone call is not inconsistent with Mr Es version 
of events. I dont doubt that HFL told Mr E that he was making direct debit payments to it to 
pay for the course provided by E. I dont find it significant that Mr E did not pick up on the 
point that his payments were going to HFL rather than E. I think the penny just did not drop 
with Mr E. That is that he did not think about that he had contracted with E but was paying 
HFL. Mr Es poor grasp of English may on balance, have been to blame for this. Mr E knew 
he was paying direct debits to pay for the course. What he tells us he did not know, at this 
point, is that he had a loan. Nothing HFL relies on tells us it specifically discussed the loan 
with Mr E in July 2018. Therefore for all of these reasons, I dont find it surprising he did not 
call it again between July 2018 and September 2020.
I have already dealt with why I dont agree that just because the loan agreement was 
electronically signed I must take it that Mr E knew about the loan and agreed to be bound by 
its terms. The mere fact that Mr E did not ask to withdraw from the loan or use the cooling off 
period does not mean I have to infer Mr E knew about the loan. The contrary could be true, 
that is if Mr E did not know about the loan, as he says, it follows that he would not have 
asked to withdraw from it or use the cooling off period. 
We have asked Mr E about the welcome letter. I find it likely that the correctly addressed 
welcome letter would have been delivered to him. I also find the letter set out the situation in 
relation to the loan very clearly. A native English speaker would be expected to understand 
from it that they had a loan with HFL. Mr E tells us he cant remember if he received this 
letter. But he also tells us in any event that his written English is at such a level that he 
needs translation services to understand written English. I think this might on balance 
explain why he did not recognise the significance of this letter.
I dont agree that paying off the disputed loan is inconsistent with saying that the loan is 
invalid. Mr E may well have taken this step to protect his credit rating whilst his complaint 
was in play.
Mr E may have wanted to cancel the agreement at the point when his children no longer 
needed it and/or when he began to experience financial difficulties. This does not mean he 
knew about the loan all along. Mr E may not have initially mentioned misrepresentation but 
at that point it seems he believed the service contract was cancellable. It was only when it 
became clear it was not cancellable that misrepresentation became relevant. 
HFL indicates it had conversations with Mr E about arrears prior to July 2018. It find no 
reason to doubt the accuracy of its records. Mr E seems to have had an imperfect 
understanding of the underlying financing of the agreement with E. He seems to have 
thought he was making month to month payments by direct debit. In that context if he 
missed payments he might well have expected a conversation about this. What I have not 
seen is anything to suggest (other than the welcome letter of May 2018), that Mr E and HFL had a discussion about the existence of the loan. It seems once Mr E understood there was 
a loan he did complain.
I have looked at all the evidence I have available to me, not just the information supplied by 
Mr E about verbal misrepresentation. When I look at the situation as a whole I find it more 
likely than not for the individual reasons I set out above that the contracts that is the service 
contract and the finance contract to support it were misrepresented to Mr E as he suggests.  
It follows that I find it fair and reasonable that HFL has to take responsibility for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Honeycomb Finance Limited must.
Work out how much Mr E owed under the loan at the time he first asked either HFL 
or E (whichever is the earlier) to cancel it which appears to be April 2020. It appears 
that Mr E was using the services provided under the service contract up to this point 
and therefore it is fair and reasonable he should pay for this. However, his liability 
should be limited to the amount he owed under the service contract up to this point. 
HFL cannot pursue Mr E for anything more than this amount. Any remaining balance 
must be written off
HFL tells us that Mr E has repaid the loan in full. It appears likely therefore Mr E will 
have paid more than he is liable to pay according to this decision. Any repayments 
that Mr E has made that are in relation to the period after he first asked to cancel the 
loan must be reimbursed so must be any charges or fees that HFL has charged after 
this point for example to recover arrears. HFL must pay interest on this refund at the 
rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run from the respective dates the 
respective payments were made until the date of settlement.
Instruct the credit reference agencies remove any negative information that HFL or 
its agents have asked them to register on Mr Es credit file in relation to the loan. The 
loan must be marked as settled as at the date that Mr E first asked for the loan to be 
cancelled.
Arrange and pay for Mr E to return any learning materials that belong to E in relation 
to the services contract. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman