DRN-3799295
The complaint
Mr Ws representative has complained, on his behalf, that he was unsuitably advised by 
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to establish a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (FSAVC) policy instead of contributing to an in house arrangement 
associated with membership of his occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
What happened
On the advice of Utmost, Mr W established an FSAVS policy in September 1990, following 
which Mr W then increased his contributions in September 1994. Mr W was a member of his 
employers OPS) and at both points had the option of investing in the in house AVC 
arrangement or buying added years.
In March 2021, Mr Ws representative complained to Utmost, saying that it ought to have 
referred Mr W to the company scheme for full details of the options available and compared 
the benefits of the FSAVC policy and the in house arrangements  particularly in terms of 
costs.
Had Mr W been suitably advised, the representative said, he would have contributed to the 
most suitable in house arrangement.
It said that Mr W would have lost out financially as a result and that Utmost should 
compensate him accordingly.
Utmost declined to uphold the complaint, however, saying that at the time of the advice Mr 
W would have been provided with the documentation for the FSAVC, which would have 
explained the terms of the policy and the charges which would apply. Mr W would also have 
been aware of the benefits of his OPS, it said.
It added that, in December 2003, Mr W retired and took benefits from the OPS. He also took 
the FSAVC plan benefits as an annuity and so Mr W would have been aware of the exact 
value of his benefits and the future value they would provide.
As such, Utmost said, Mr W would have been aware, since at least 2003, that he may have 
had cause for complaint in relation to the policy, and so it thought that the complaint was 
time barred under the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Ws representative referred the matter to this service, 
where it was considered by one of our investigators.
He thought that the complaint had been made in time, saying in summary that the available 
evidence didnt support the position that Mr W would have been aware that he might have 
had an enhanced pension in 2003, had he contributed to the in house arrangements.
Utmost didnt challenge the investigators view on this, and so he set out his findings on the 
merits of the complaint. He thought the complaint should be upheld, saying in summary that, 
as a tied adviser under the LAUTRO rules in place at the time, Utmosts representative 
needed to have regard for Mr Ws financial position generally and to any rights he may have 
under his OPS. They also needed to provide Mr W with all information relevant to his 
dealings with the representative.
The investigator said that the adviser ought to have been aware that the in house AVC 
scheme could have been cheaper than the FSAVC policy, that added years might have been 
available and that Mr Ws employer might top up or match the amount he would pay into 
either option.
Mentioning these things to Mr W would have been consistent with having regard to Mr Ws 
rights to contribute to an AVC scheme  and would have been treating him fairly, the 
investigator said.
And although a suitability letter may not have been required before 1995, the investigator 
said that he would have expected there to have been file notes to the effect that charges 
under the FSAVC policy and the AVC arrangement had been discussed, rather than the 
existence of the latter simply having been mentioned.
But he was unable to find any reference in Utmosts file to the AVC alternative, nor any 
discussion on charges.
The investigator thought it likely that, had Mr W been made aware that the charges in the 
AVC arrangement would have been lower, he would have opted for this instead of the 
FSAVC policy. 
As such, he recommended that Utmost undertake a redress calculation to compare the two 
arrangements on the basis of the charges which would have been incurred, and if Mr W had 
suffered a loss, to compensate him accordingly.
Utmost responded, saying that although it acknowledged that there was no documentation 
on the file to evidence that a discussion had taken place about the in house options, the 
charges under the FSAVC were lower than those which would have been levied on the in 
house AVC.
It attached the product particulars which it said showed the annual management charge 
(AMC) on the FSAVC to be 0.25%, whereas the AMC for the in house AVC, depending on 
the chosen fund, were between 0.65% and 0.75%. Further, Utmost said 102% of the regular 
contributions were invested after the deduction of the policy fee of £1.50.
The investigator conveyed this information to Mr Ws representative, saying that, on this 
basis, even if a discussion had occurred on costs comparisons, he thought it more likely than 
not that Mr W would have opted for the FSAVC policy.
He also said that hed considered the option of Mr W buying added years instead, but he 
thought that it was unlikely Mr W would have chosen this, given the higher cost and the 
inability to identify exactly what benefit they might provide at retirement.
Mr Ws representative disagreed, however, requesting the relevant documentation which 
had been used to substantiate the investigators revised conclusions.
Having received this, the representative said that the product particulars had been extremely 
difficult to read and understand, and would have been especially so for a layman such as Mr 
W. 
But it also said that despite the headline 0.25% AMC, there was an additional 0.5% pm charge on the policys capital units, to which all premiums for the first two years of the plan 
were allocated.
It therefore didnt consider that it should be assumed that the charges under the FSAVC 
would have been lower, and as there was no evidence that a conversation had occurred 
about the charges, Mr W had in any case been denied the opportunity to make an informed 
decision.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 30 September 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why I though the complaint should be upheld. My findings from that decision 
were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I think Mr Ws representative makes a good point about the effect of the 
charges on the capital units in the first two years of contributions. If I were to draw any 
conclusion on that, in the absence of an actual calculation to demonstrate its effects, Id be 
second guessing whether the effects of the capital units did outweigh the apparent lower 
AMC. 
Im not in a position to do so, and for the same reason, I dont think that, even if a discussion 
had occurred between Mr W and Utmost about costs, it would have been clear to him 
without a comparison projection that this was the case.
As such, on the basis that I agree that the available evidence doesnt support the position 
that a discussion was held with Mr W which would have met the LAUTRO requirements at 
the time, I think that Utmost needs to undertake the originally proposed redress calculation, 
which may or may not then demonstrate that Mr W has made an overall gain.
Putting things right
And so Utmost Life and Pensions Limited should undertake a redress calculation in 
accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment 
below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available 
for periods after 1 January 2005  although I appreciate this may not apply here given that it 
seems that Mr W took the FSAVC plan benefits in 2003.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In my view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Utmost Life and Pensions Limited should use the CAPS mixed with property index up 
to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter (if 
applicable  see above).
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into a pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Mr Ws representative agreed with my provisional findings, and Utmost has said that it will 
proceed to undertake the loss assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My conclusions remain the same as those set out in the provisional decision and for the 
same reasons.
Putting things right
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with 
the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 
January 2005  although I appreciate this may not apply here given that it seems that Mr W 
took the FSAVC plan benefits in 2003.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In my view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Utmost Life and Pensions Limited should use the CAPS mixed with property index up 
to 1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter (if 
applicable  see above).
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into a pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman