DRN-3117364
The complaint
Mr R, a jointly and severally appointed attorney, complains on behalf of Mrs W that National 
Savings and Investments has frustrated his efforts to administrate Mrs Ws savings. 
What happened
Mrs W holds savings with NS&I. 
Mr R has been granted a Lasting Power of Attorney (POA) to assist Mrs W with her financial 
affairs. He approached NS&I to register the arrangement and provided a certified photocopy 
of the POA document. 
NS&I wasnt willing to register the arrangement based solely on the document Mr R 
submitted. It explained that as a matter of policy, it would need to see the original copy of the 
POA document, or alternatively a photocopy thatd been certified in a specific way. 
Mr R complained on Mrs Ws behalf about NS&Is policy. He felt what NS&I asked for was 
unreasonable. As Mr R wasnt happy with NS&Is final response to the complaint, hes 
referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They felt NS&Is request was reasonable 
enough considering the business obligations to protect Mrs Ws money. As Mr R didnt 
agree, the matters been referred to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations require NS&I to protect Mrs Ws money. Failing to do so could present a 
considerable risk to Mrs W, so its something Id expect NS&I to take very seriously. But the 
business is also required to treat Mrs W fairly. And if I was persuaded that in the course of 
protecting Mrs Ws funds, NS&Is actions had led to her unfair treatment, I can direct it to put 
matters right. 
NS&Is policy on accepting POA documents is outlined in its final response to this complaint. 
Its explained itll register the arrangement upon receipt of either the original POA document, 
or a photocopy of the entire document where each page has been individually certified with a 
wet ink signature. 
Mr R argues NS&Is policy is onerous and in excess of what the relevant guidance directs 
firms to do when registering POA arrangements. As a result, he feels NS&I is 
inconveniencing Mrs W and not treating her fairly. 
I am however satisfied that NS&Is decision, on what it is and isnt willing to accept, is a fair 
one. I shall explain why. 
Theres no legislation which prescribes exactly what level of due diligence a business must 
attain when registering a POA arrangement. Firms like NS&I have the discretion to decide 
their policies on matters like this for themselves, provided they comply with the relevant 
laws, regulations, and industry guidance which may apply. 
In making this complaint, Mr R has referred to the relevant guidance paper, Supporting 
customers who do not make their own decisions. This is a piece of industry guidance 
published in 2019 by The Office of the Public Guardian in collaboration with several 
regulatory bodies. The guidance Mr R has quoted specifically notes the law doesnt require 
firms like NS&I to review original POA documents when registering an arrangement. But it 
certainly doesnt preclude firms from insisting on seeing the originals, if thats what the firm 
deems necessary mindful of the associated risks.
And in this case, mindful of the associated risks, NS&I has clearly outlined to Mr R what its 
willing to accept to register the POA. These requirements arent contrary to any existing 
legislation and Im not persuaded theyre unfair or unreasonable, considering the business 
obligations to protect Mrs Ws money. NS&I is simply asking Mr R to provide, or arrange 
special certification of the POA document, which it can reasonably presume he would have 
unrestricted access to as an attorney. In my view, this isnt an onerous request. 
Im aware that Mrs Ws holdings with NS&I arent particularly vast. Im similarly aware Mr Rs 
been able to register his authority to act for Mrs W with a number of other organisations, 
including ours, without meeting with the requirements NS&I is imposing.  But this doesnt 
mean NS&I is treating Mrs W unfairly. As Ive noted above, firms can decide for themselves 
what level of security theyll require before accepting an arrangement is valid. The guidance 
Mr Rs quoted as part of this complaint confirms as much, giving examples of occasions 
where more or less due diligence may be considered. And crucially, it doesnt set out any 
thresholds beyond which a firms policy can be called excessive or unreasonable.   
Mr R has also pointed out that there are other, less burdensome processes which NS&I 
could use to verify his authority. But its not mine or this services place to decide exactly 
how NS&I should register POA arrangements. Rather, its for me to decide whether in the 
course of doing so, NS&I has treated Mrs W fairly. And throughout all of the arguments Mr R 
has submitted, theres been no suggestion that he or one of Mrs Ws other attorneys cant 
comply with NS&Is requirements. He simply believes that he should not have to.   
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments submitted in this case, Im not 
persuaded that NS&I is treating Mrs W unfairly by relying on its usual policy for registering 
the POA arrangement. 
It is for Mr R and his fellow attorneys to decide for themselves whether they will or wont 
comply with NS&Is requirements. I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman