DRN-2442190
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2001 when he took out a personal loan ending with the numbers 
478. 
What happened
Mr T said he was told that in order to get the loan, he had to buy the PPI policy. So he 
concludes he was not given any choice about buying it. He said he didnt know he could 
cancel the policy. He concludes the policy was mis-sold.
Santander rejected Mr Ts mis-sale complaint on this loan. But it upheld his complaint on 
another loan numbered 720.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint about loan 478 should not be upheld. Mr T disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. He repeated that 
he was told he had to buy the PPI to get the loan; he wants to know why one complaint was 
upheld, yet this one was rejected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Although I cannot uphold Mr Ts complaint on the key issues he has raised, I have examined 
other aspects of the sale to see whether there are any other reasons to conclude that the 
policy was mis-sold. Having looked at the evidence, I am going to say Mr Ts complaint 
should not be upheld. I know this will disappoint him, so Ill explain why.
Mr T said he did not know the policy was optional as he was told he had to buy it in order to 
get the loan; he says he wasnt given any choice about buying PPI. Yet Santander should 
have made Mr T aware he had a choice in buying the policy.
Santander was able to produce a sample of the loan application form which it said Mr T 
would have seen at the time of his PPI purchase. Mr T said he could not remember the 
original forms. I can see on the loan application form that the consumer has the choice 
of whether to buy PPI because there is a section headed Payment Protection and 
below that it has two tick boxes. Each one says, Please arrange Payment Protection on 
my behalf and I do not require Payment Protection. So as this choice was most likely 
offered to Mr T at the time of his PPI sale, I think its more likely that he was probably 
aware the policy was an optional product and he chose to have it attached to his loan 
account.
I do appreciate that Mr T remembers events in a different way. However, I have not seen 
any persuasive evidence of what he was told that day or of the verbal pressure he may 
have felt to buy PPI. For instance, he hasnt told us what exactly was said to him on that 
day or by whom. So I can only refer to the sample documents which were probably 
completed at the time which show the policy was an optional product. And having done so, 
I think its more likely the policy was shown as an optional product which he could cancel 
at a later date.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr T, so it had to check if it was suitable for him. I 
think it probably was suitable for Mr T because he was eligible to buy it, it doesnt seem 
he was affected by the main exclusions and limitations and it looks like it was affordable 
for him at the time of the sale.
I then looked at his financial circumstances as at 2001 to see if the policy was still 
suitable for Mr T. He told us he would get at least six months sick pay from his employer 
and did not mention that he had any savings. So I think the PPI cover could have lasted 
for longer than his sick pay and would have covered his loan repayments at a time he 
might have needed it most  particularly if he had no savings. So I dont think his 
employee benefits made the policy unsuitable.
Mr T said he could rely on his wife to pay loan repayments if he couldnt afford them 
himself. I understand the point he is making. But there was no guarantee he could rely 
on this help at some unknown point in the future during the full loan term. So I dont 
think this made the policy unsuitable at the time of the sale.
I dont know exactly what was said to Mr T about the PPI cost and benefits and the 
exclusions and limitations of the policy. And Mr T and Santander didnt give any details 
about the conversations held that day. However, having already decided he probably 
chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he wanted this type of cover and  for the 
reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. 
I saw that the PPI cost was shown as a separate monthly figure on his credit agreement, 
so I think he most likely had enough information about the PPI cost and benefits. And as 
he wasnt affected by the main exclusions and limitations at the time of the sale, I think 
its unlikely that full detailed information would have put him off from buying PPI.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. Santander said Mr Ts loan was taken out in 2001 and ended in 2003. So based on what Ive 
said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-
disclosure of commission apply here.
So Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr T paid for the PPI he had 
with his loan. 
Taking everything into account, I am not going to uphold this complaint.
Mr T said he wanted to know why Santander upheld his other complaint on loan 720. 
Unfortunately, Santander did not tell us why that complaint was upheld. It came to its own 
commercial decision at an early stage, so this service did not have to investigate that matter. 
Mr T can ask Santander if he wants to know why his other complaint was upheld.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman