DRN-3473271
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains that Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal 
London) unfairly declined a claim on the late Mr Ms life assurance policy. It wants Royal 
London to pay the claim, together with compensation. 
The estate of Mr M is being represented by Mrs M, via a firm of solicitors. But for ease, Ill 
refer to Mrs M throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a level term life assurance policy with Royal London in May 2018. The 
policy was offered on standard terms, and Mr M was asked to check his application details. 
The policy ran for 25 years with a sum assured of £54,853. 
In August 2020 Mr M sadly passed away.  Mrs M made a claim on the policy. 
Royal London declined the claim. It said Mr M hadnt provided correct information on the 
application form about his medical history. Specifically, referrals to medical practitioners for 
rehabilitation and assessment within the last five years in relation to a spinal injury sustained 
in 2000.  Royal London said if it had known this information at the point of application, cover 
wouldve been declined. It considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to decline the claim, treat the policy as if it was never in place and return the 
premiums paid. 
Mrs M complained to Royal London and asked it to reconsider its decision. She said her 
husband didnt consider the rehabilitation and assessments for his spinal injury sustained 
several years ago to be a health condition for the purposes of the application or relevant 
within the last five years.  She also didnt accept that Royal London wouldnt have offered 
cover had it known Mr Ms full medical history. She said cover shouldve still been offered, 
albeit on different terms. 
Royal London didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint and maintained its decision to decline her 
claim and cancel the policy. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and our Investigator thought it 
shouldnt be upheld. He said Royal London had asked a clear question that Mr M had 
answered incorrectly. He thought Royal London acted fairly by declining the claim and 
returning the premiums. 
Mrs M doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She 
said if it was thought Mr M believed he was answering the question correctly  as our 
Investigator had suggested - then how can we say Mr M didnt take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. Mrs M said this then becomes an innocent misrepresentation 
which she said means Royal London should pay the claim in full. 
Mrs M also wanted to see evidence to show cover wouldve been refused had Mr M 
answered the question differently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I want to assure Mrs M that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this 
is an incredibly difficult time for her, and I dont want to add to her distress. But I cant say 
Royal London has treated her unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Did Mr M take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Royal London thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he completed the application form in May 2018. 
Sadly, Mr M isnt around to ask why he answered the question on the application as he did. 
So, Ive thought very carefully about what he was asked, and what Mrs M has said about 
why Mr M gave the answer he did. Ive also taken account of the supporting medical 
evidence. 
Ive looked at the question Mr M was asked when he applied for the policy. It said:
YOUR HEALTH IN THE LAST 5 YEARS CONTINUED
Please answer questions that follow honestly and accurately. If you provide any 
inaccurate answer, it could mean that we may not pay the full amount of your claim. In 
the worst case we could cancel your policy and not pay anything.
Other than anything you have already told us about, in the last 5 years, have you been 
referred to a hospital specialist by a GP or medical professional. 
Mr M answered no to this question. 
Mrs M has said the above question is written in such a way that it relates to health conditions 
that occurred in the last five years  and so Mr M didnt think it applied to his long-standing spinal injuries. Mrs M has also said her husband didnt consider rehabilitation to be a health 
condition that Royal London needed to know about.  
The question is, I think, clear and unambiguous. It is asking if a referral has been made in 
the last five years. There is no suggestion that the underlying reason for the referral mustve 
started in the last five years  nor does it differentiate between types of referrals. I appreciate 
that Mr M might not have considered the rehabilitation in relation to his spinal injury to be a 
health condition. But thats not relevant for the purposes of this question, which is clearly 
asking about any referrals thatve been made, regardless of the reason. 
I can see from Mr Ms medical records that he suffered severe life changing spinal injuries 
because of a car accident in 2000. Mr M was referred for rehabilitation with hospital 
specialists in 2014 and 2015, with several appointments taking place through to 2018.  
And so, I think its reasonable Royal London has said Mr M shouldve answered yes to the 
above question. 
Mrs M said that if Mr M thought he was answering the question correctly, then he did take 
reasonable care. She thinks her husband made an innocent mistake, and as such, the 
claim should be paid. 
Whilst its clear to me Mr M answered the question incorrectly  I appreciate he may not 
have intended to do so. But that doesnt mean theres no fault on his part. So, in line with 
CIDRA, I must decide if Mr M took reasonable care when answering the question not to 
make a misrepresentation. 
As Ive mentioned above, I think the question was clear and unambiguous. Mr M mightve 
interpreted the question more narrowly than its been written, by thinking his long-standing 
health condition wasnt relevant. But that, is itself, not taking reasonable care to provide 
Royal London with the information it requested. I also must bear in mind that the referrals 
made for rehabilitation and assessment were ongoing from 2014 until 2018, when Mr M 
applied for the policy. So, I think this information was recent enough for him to remember 
when completing the application. 
Mr M was also reminded of the importance of providing accurate information, and the 
possible implications of not doing so. This was noted on both the application form, and when 
he was asked to check the details hed provided.  
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mr M took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Did the misrepresentation make a difference?
I can see from Royal Londons underwriting criteria from the time of the application that if 
Mr M had disclosed the referrals, more questions wouldve been asked about the reasons 
for them. This includes asking if there were symptoms of numbness or difficulty walking. And 
I can see from Mr Ms medical records that these applied to him. His medical records say: 
He is a known case of quadriplegia  He is partially recovered and can mobilise well 
with the use of crutches. 
There is also reference in his medical records to Mr M suffering from numbness in his 
limbs. On declaring this to Royal London, he wouldve then been asked if hed made a full 
recovery. Again, given Mr Ms condition was unfortunately permanent, he shouldve 
answered no. At which point Royal Londons underwriting confirms the life cover wouldve 
been declined. This means Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Innocent misrepresentation isnt 
an option under CIDRA.  
Royal London has treated Mr Ms misrepresentation as careless. CIDRA sets out that where 
a consumer makes a careless misrepresentation the insurer can take whatever action it 
wouldve taken had the relevant information been disclosed at the outset. This could mean 
altering the terms of the policy, reducing the sum assured if a higher premium would have 
been charged, or, as Royal London did, cancelling the policy if cover would never have been 
offered. This means the policy was looked upon as if it never existed, the claim was 
declined, and all the premiums were refunded. 
Given Mrs Ms testimony about her husbands understanding of the question and his 
condition, I dont think Mr M made a deliberate omission. And so, I agree with Royal London 
that the misrepresentation should be treated as careless and Im satisfied its actions in 
declining Mrs Ms claim and cancelling the policy are a fair and reasonable outcome. So, I 
wont be asking Royal London to take any further action. 
Taking everything into account, I think Royal Londons decision to decline Mrs Ms claim and 
cancel the policy was fair and reasonable. So, I wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman