DRN-3219524
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice Mike Norris Financial Services Limited (MNFSL) gave to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr N to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ns.
What happened
Mr N approached MNFSL in 2019 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
MNFSL gathered information about Mr Ns circumstances and objectives. It obtained a 
pension value transfer report and carried out an assessment of Mr Ns attitude to risk. On 
8 October 2019 MNFSL sent Mr N a transfer advice letter. Amongst other things it said 
that:
Mr N was 55 years old, married with one adult son.
He was working as was his wife. MNFSL didnt record his salary.
Mr and Mr N owned their home with a small outstanding mortgage, although the 
figure wasnt given.
Mr N had nominal savings.
He held a self-invested personal pension but its value wasnt known.
His attitude to risk was moderately adventurous.
He had some investment experience.
He was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. The scheme had a 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £77,126.31. The DB scheme would pay 
Mr N a yearly pension of £726 at age 65.
The investment required in order to provide equivalent, risk free, benefits to his DB 
scheme (known as a transfer value comparator or TVC) could cost Mr N around 
£28,611, which was £48,514 less than the CETV.
The growth rates required in order to match the DB benefits from the DB scheme 
(known as the critical yield) were in minus figures.
MNFSL recorded that Mr Ns needs and objectives were:
The ability to access pension benefits in a flexible manner.
The ability to drawdown funds from his pension as and when he required. And, if he 
needed to do so before he reached the DB scheme retirement age of 65, to be able 
to do so without his pension reducing.
Owing to the state of the market at that time pension transfer values were high and 
Mr N wished to take advantage of that.
To enter into an investment environment to secure his objectives.
For higher death benefits.
MNFSL advised Mr N to transfer his pension benefits from the DB scheme into a named 
personal pension plan. It said the reasons for this recommendation were because:
 
MNFSL deemed the critical yield and TVC figures as acceptable. 
It would meet his needs to access his pension benefits flexibly.
His fund would benefit from tax advantaged growth
He could take his benefits from age 55.
He could take 25% of the fund as tax free cash (TFC).
A broad range of investment opportunities offering greater choice and enhanced 
flexibility compared to other schemes.
Greater freedom and flexibility to access his pension benefits including the phasing 
in of benefits in line with his objectives
Greater entitlement to death benefits which would not be taxed and he could 
nominate the beneficiary.
The invested fund would be in addition to his other pension provision.
He would avoid any future underfunding of the DB scheme.
If required it would allow his financial adviser to provide ongoing investment advice.
MNFSL said it would charge Mr N £3,000 for its transfer advice and service, with an ongoing 
annual fee of £500 for investment advice should he choose that.
Mr N went ahead with the transfer which was completed in December 2019.
Mr N complained in 2021 to MNFSL about the suitability of the transfer advice because, 
amongst other things, he said:
MNFSL led him to believe that transferring out of the DB scheme would offer greater 
flexibility but in doing so he would lose guaranteed benefits and so transferring 
wasnt in his best interests.
The advice was unsuitable, inappropriate and negligent and was not in line with the 
regulators rules to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
Mr N was an inexperienced investor and didnt understand the differences and 
losses by moving from the DB scheme to a personal pension and MNFSL didnt 
explain this to him. 
MNFSL acknowledged receipt of the complaint but said that it didnt consider it to be valid 
and refused to respond further. 
Mr N referred his complaint to our service. We asked MNFSL to provide its file but it didnt do 
so. It told us it had provided everything it had to Mr N (via his representatives). It also said 
that its former adviser, who had provided the advice to Mr N, had taken some documents 
with him when he left MNFSLs employment, so MNFSL no longer had access to those. Our 
investigator asked Mr N to provide what information he had. Having considered that he 
upheld the complaint and required MNFSL to pay compensation. In short our investigator 
said that Mr N was likely to receive lower pension benefits by transferring out of his DB 
scheme and as such the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable. The investigator also 
noted that the figure MNFSL had used for Mr Ns pension entitlement from his DB scheme at 
65 wasnt accurate.
MNFSL disagreed. It said it had discussed the figures with Mr N and the advantage to him 
was that the transfer allowed him the flexibility to access his pension rather than the level of 
the pension. It said that the transfer also provided substantially better death benefits. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, MNFSL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ns best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Financial viability and MNFSLs figures
MNFSLs pension transfer report and its transfer advice letter set out the figures on which it 
had based its advice. Those figures showed that Mr Ns DB scheme entitled him to a yearly 
pension of £726 at age 65. They also showed that the critical yield required to meet the DB 
scheme benefits were in negative figures and the TVC was over £48,000 less than the 
CETV. Those figures indicated that Mr N could transfer his funds away from the DB scheme 
and, even if his investments suffered a loss, he should have still been easily able to meet or 
significantly exceed the benefits offered by his DB scheme. In other words the figures paint a 
picture of Mr N almost certainly being better off by transferring away from the DB scheme. 
So I can understand why the figures as presented by MNFSL would make a transfer from his 
scheme seem particularly attractive.
But, it seems to me that MNFSL has misinterpreted the figures provided to it by the DB 
scheme administrators. On first glance those do appear to show that Mr N would be entitled 
to a yearly pension of £726 if he remained in the DB scheme. But a closer look shows that 
this wasnt Mr Ns full DB scheme pension entitlement. 
It might help if I explain that pensions rules (for example changes to calculation of cost of 
living increases) have changed over the years. And those changes have affected DB 
scheme members pension entitlements. So its quite common for pension scheme 
administrators to set out what entitlement a scheme member has gained between specific 
dates (sometimes referred to as slices) when the rule changes were made. One such 
significant change affecting DB pensions involves the calculation of the Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP). GMP is the minimum amount a pension scheme must pay where, 
as is the case with DB schemes, the members have opted out of paying into State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). GMP is generally only payable when a scheme 
member reaches a certain age, which for Mr N was 65. So pensions administrators, when 
giving entitlement to pensions will usually revalue what the GMP figure is likely to be when 
the scheme member reaches retirement age and then use that to provide an overall pension 
entitlement at normal retirement age. But that didnt happen in this instance.
In this case the DB scheme administrators quoted Mr Ns GMP entitlement at the date he left 
the scheme, in 1989, and which came to £208 a year. It said the figure hadnt been revalued 
to Mr Ns normal retirement age and it wouldnt calculate that revaluation until Mr N reached GMP age - 65. But it said it had included an estimated GMP entitlement figure. That 
estimated GMP for Mr N at age 65 was around £3,500 a year. 
So the £726 a year pension entitlement that MNFSL had said Mr N would be entitled to at 65 
wasnt a fair representation of what Mr N was likely to receive. Instead, if Mr N received the 
estimated GMP amount of £3,500 (instead of the £208 used in MNFSLs figures) then his 
yearly pension entitlement would have increased to around £4,018. But I can't see that 
MNFSL ever identified this anomaly in its figures or explained that to Mr N. Ive also 
identified that other figures contained within MNFSLs pension transfer report dont match 
the figures which were provided by Mr Ns DB scheme, for example the quoted pensions 
amounts should Mr N have chosen to take early retirement at age 56 arent the same. But it 
doesn't appear that MNFSL ever identified this.
So, without identifying and correcting its mistakes, MNFSLs advice and illustrations to Mr N 
were all based on inaccurate information. And while I dont have the available tools to 
recalculate the critical yield or TVC myself using the correct figures, I can be certain that the 
critical yield wouldnt have had a negative value, as the investments would have required 
significant growth in order to match the DB scheme benefits. 
Similarly, I can also be sure that the TVC sum would have been a great deal more than the 
CETV, it certainly wouldnt have been £48,000 less. Thats because the actual value of 
Mr Ns pension entitlement was around 18 times higher than MNFSLs models were based 
on, which is an increase of some 553%. 
But MNFSL said, in part, that its recommendation for Mr N to transfer out of his DB scheme 
was suitable because the critical yield was acceptable and also because of the ability to fund 
the pension within the TVC figure. But as both the critical yield and TVC calculations were 
wrong, it follows that MNFSLs advice and recommendation were also not factually correct. 
So its figures are likely to have misled Mr N. It follows that I dont think MNFSL 
communicated with Mr N in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. And I dont believe 
it gave him all the facts with which to make an informed decision about whether or not he 
wanted to proceed with the transfer.
I've noted that MNFSL recorded that Mr N wanted to take advantage of the higher transfer 
values DB schemes were attracting because of the state of the market, specifically low gilt 
yields. Theres no doubt that the state of the market will have an influence on the CETV on 
offer. But MNFSL has produced no reliable evidence that Mr N could have matched the 
benefits from his DB scheme by transferring out of it, regardless that the CETV might have 
been higher than at other times. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think MNFSL painted an accurate picture of Mr Ns 
potential financial landscape if he chose to remain in his DB scheme until 65. So its advice to 
transfer out of the DB scheme on the grounds that the TVC and critical yield were achievable 
was unsuitable.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
MNFSL has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
was suitable, despite providing inaccurate advice. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility 
MNFSLs said, in response to our investigators assessment of the complaint, that Mr N said 
he wanted flexible access to his pension benefits rather than increased sums. But while that 
might have been a potential benefit of transferring from the scheme, I've seen no evidence in 
the available papers that flexible access to his DB pension fund was something that Mr N had any actual need for at the time of the advice. Thats because MNFSL hasn't recorded 
any reason why Mr N might need access to his DB funds before the schemes retirement 
age, or why accessing those funds flexibly would be worth giving up the guaranteed benefits 
that his DB scheme offered him. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr N had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement or before. At the time Mr N and his wife were both still working and MNFSL hasnt 
shown any evidence that they had significant debt or were struggling to manage on their 
employment income. So there doesn't appear to have been any pressing need for Mr N to 
access the funds in his DB schemes early or more flexibly. And while I can understand that 
the ability to do that and to access pension funds immediately might have been a desirable 
prospect for Mr N, it doesn't mean that meeting those desires was in his best interests. 
Thats because in order to have access to those funds before retirement or to do so on a 
more flexible basis meant giving up guaranteed income at retirement age.
MNFSLs role was to find out what Mr Ns wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to arrange what Mr N might find attractive without appropriate analysis and challenge 
of his motives for doing so with the implications of taking those actions with him. But I've 
seen no evidence of such a challenge. Indeed I've seen no evidence that MNFSL explored 
with Mr N exactly what he wanted funds for and what that was likely to cost. Instead, its 
transfer advice letter says that Mr Ns objective was to have more flexible access to his 
benefits without exploring why that flexibility was worth giving up the valuable risk free and 
guaranteed assets from his DB scheme. So, I dont think MNFSL fully explored what Mr Ns 
wants and needs were. And I dont think it met its obligations to challenge Mr Ns objectives 
in light of what he would be giving up. 
Further Mr N was already investing in a SIPP. So that should have given him the vehicle 
both for a broader range of investment opportunities, which MNFSL listed as one of Mr Ns 
objectives, and to access those funds on a flexible basis if that was important to Mr N. But, 
as I've said above, MNFSL didnt record any reason why Mr N would want to give up the 
guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme in order to obtain flexible access to those funds. And, 
if MNFSL believed Mr N needed ready access to cash at that time, it didnt explore with him 
the option of taking those funds from his SIPP, which didnt have guaranteed benefits, rather 
than from his DB scheme which did. 
Also, I can't see any detail within MNFSLs transfer advice letter showing how it analysed the 
likely income Mr N would need at retirement and how he intended to meet that need. So it 
seems that MNFSL gave its advice without a full picture of Mr Ns likely income needs in his 
retirement and whether it was in his best interest to access his DB pension funds flexibly. 
What I can say for certain is Mr N had the prospect of a guaranteed return from his DB 
scheme which would increase each year. A return he stood to lose some or all of by moving 
it into a personal pension which had no guarantees of any return whatsoever. Also, in going 
ahead with that transfer the funds would instantly be subject to a £3,000 transfer fee. The 
personal pension fund provider would also charge an administration fee of 0.45% each year 
and MNFSL would add a further charge of £500 each year for financial advice. Those are 
charges that would potentially continue to reduce the size of Mr Ns investment but are 
charges that wouldnt have been deducted from his DB scheme benefits had he remained in 
that. It seems to me that these benefits outweigh the possible advantages of having more 
flexible access to his pension funds.
Death benefits
MNFSL made a similar mistake when presenting the death benefits available from Mr Ns 
DB scheme as it did when setting out his entitlement to a yearly pension at 65. Mr Ns DB scheme would pay 50% of his pension entitlement to his wife in the event of his death. But 
as MNFSL made a mistake as to the level of 100% of Mr Ns pension entitlement it also 
misrepresented the level of benefits payable when it calculated 50% of that. So it quoted a 
death benefit figure of £363 a year, when in reality it was likely to be over £2,000 a year. So 
its perhaps not surprising that MNFSL recorded in its pension transfer letter that Mr N had 
said that the DB scheme benefits, of £363 a year, wasnt enough for his wife. 
That said, even without its mistakes with the figures I think its likely that MNFSL would 
argue that the death benefits from the personal pension were superior to those from the DB 
scheme. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And if Mr N had died shortly 
after making the transfer then Mrs N would have been entitled to take the remaining sums 
from the pension in a lump sum if she so wished. And that may have appeared an attractive 
feature to Mr N. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to Mr N, and he might 
have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here for MNFSL was to advise Mr N about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
MNFSL explored to what extent Mr N was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
Mr Ns DB scheme would have paid Mrs N 50% of Mr Ns pension entitlement from the date 
of Mr Ns death until the end of her life. I dont think MNFSL made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr N. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
Its worth noting that the death benefits available from the personal pension would decrease 
over time. And if Mr N chose to take TFC then its likely the sum available would decrease by 
around 25% overnight. And the funds available for Mr Ns beneficiaries on his death would 
have continued to reduce as Mr N drew down sums for his income needs or to pay the 
charges for the personal pension. And that amount would likely be further reduced the longer 
Mr N lived for. So, depending on his lifespan and the funds hed taken from his personal 
pension, the fund might not have a large  if indeed any  sum left at the time of Mr Ns 
death. In any event, MNFSL should not have encouraged Mr N to prioritise the potential for 
higher sums being available at his death through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr N. 
Control of pension investments 
I think MNFSL overstated Mr Ns desire for control over his pension investments. Mr N was 
already a member of a SIPP scheme, which would allow him to control those investments. 
But MNFSLs recorded in its pension transfer advice letter that Mr N didnt wish to transfer 
his DB scheme funds into his SIPP because he had no desire to undertake further 
self-directed investment decisions. That comment would seem to suggest that Mr N didnt 
require the level of control that MNFSL believed he did. Further, while it recorded that Mr N 
had some investment experience and had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk, it also 
recorded that owing to current market volatility Mr N preferred to invest his funds in a more 
capital protected investment. In other words Mr N had no immediate need to enter into the 
investment arena. And I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr N  it was simply 
a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr N. But MNFSL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr N might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr N needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
But MNFSL made some critical errors with its figures which meant that it painted a distorted 
picture of the benefits that were available for Mr Ns DB scheme.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice MNFSL gave to Mr N was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr N was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. MNFSL should in the first instance, have double checked 
its figures to make sure its advice was accurate. It didnt do that. But even if it had, it 
shouldnt have advised Mr N to transfer out of the scheme in order to have more flexible 
access and control of his pension funds or for the potential for higher death benefits. Those 
simply weren't worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme for.
So, I think MNFSL shouldve advised Mr N to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr N would've gone ahead anyway, against MNFSLs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr N wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against MNFSLs advice if that advice had bene accurate. 
I say this because while Mr N had some investment experience and a moderately 
adventurous attitude to risk he was cautious enough not to wish to transfer his funds into a 
volatile market. And the DB scheme funds were a valuable asset in his retirement provision. 
So, if MNFSL had provided him with accurate figures and clear advice against transferring 
out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have 
accepted that advice.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for MNFSL to put Mr N, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for MNFSLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr N would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
MNFSL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr N has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ns acceptance of the decision.
MNFSL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ns 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ns SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ns pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr N within 90 days of the date MNFSL receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MNFSL to pay Mr N.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £350,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £350,000, I may recommend that MNFSL 
pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mike Norris Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £350,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £350,000, I would additionally require 
Mike Norris Financial Services Limited to pay Mr N any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £350,000, I would only require 
Mike Norris Financial Services Limited to pay Mr N any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £350,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £350,000, I also recommend that 
Mike Norris Financial Services Limited pays Mr N the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr N.
If Mr N accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mike Norris Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr N can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman