DRN-3166051
The complaint
Mr P, a director of a limited company G, has complained about the broker Impact Insurance 
Services (Bolton) Ltd. Hes unhappy because when he cancelled Gs fleet insurance cover it 
retained the £5,000 deposit paid for cover.
What happened
Impact had arranged fleet insurance cover for G for a number of years. Mr P was sent policy 
documents by Impact on 26 October 2020. These were in respect of cover that was due to 
start the next day  from midnight on 27 October 2020. Mr P says he called Impact at around 
5pm on 26 October and agreed to the cover as he felt he had no choice, given the imminent 
expiry of last years cover and the start date for the new policy.
On the morning of 28 October 2020 Mr P emailed Impact and told it to cancel his cover  he 
had found a better price elsewhere. Impact confirmed at around 10.30am that the 
cancellation had been actioned. Impact said it would consider a request Mr P had made for a 
refund, but that, in line with its terms of business, it was entitled to keep its commission 
earned for the cover, and fees charged. 
Mr P was unhappy. He said he hadnt been aware that commission was charged. Impact told 
Mr P that his insurer had returned £778.18, so it would send him this, and £1,000 as a 
goodwill gesture. But it wasnt minded to return any further funds to Mr P and pointed out 
that Mr P had been sent its terms of business on many occasions. Mr Ps renewal 
documents showed a fee charged of £2,246.40 and, after Mr P complained to us, Impact 
confirmed its commission for this policy was £2,478.00. Impact also told us that, as a further 
gesture of goodwill, it would return the total of its commission to Mr P, not just the £1,000 
previously offered. But it said it would retain the rest of the deposit as it had done a lot of 
work to prepare and organise Gs renewal. Mr P wasnt minded to accept the offer.
Our investigator felt that Impact should have provided renewal documents to Mr P earlier. He 
felt that, if it had, hed have had chance to shop around and would have found the alternate 
cover for G, arranged on 28 October 2020, before the policy arranged by Impact began. So 
he felt Impact couldnt fairly retain its commission or fees. He said Impact should reimburse 
G for everything paid, less an amount for the time on cover, plus interest*.
Impact felt this was unfair as it had been discussing the new cover with Mr P for some time; 
the documents issued on 26 October were just the finalised policy documents. It asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. The case was passed to me and I asked Impact to give me 
details about when its work on the renewal had begun, as well as evidence of what it had 
done and any discussions it had with Mr P in the run up to the documents being issued. 
Impact responded, providing what further detail it had, I reviewed everything and issued a 
provisional decision, as I felt Impact should refund all but £500 of Gs deposit.
Mr P, on behalf of G said all he wanted to know now was where he stands in respect of his 
rights regarding the deposit paid. Impact said it disagreed with my findings.
In summary Impact said:
Its paperwork is clear that the fee, which makes up nearly half of the deposit G paid, is 
non-refundable, and that Mr P knew that.
The policy wasnt cancelled, it was transferred and only after it had done all the work of 
securing the cover whilst Mr P waited for his other broker to come back to him.
Its fee covers about 16 hours worth of work, about one hour a week over a two-week 
period, and whilst its record sheet doesnt show how many hours it spent arranging Gs 
policy, over an hour a day wouldnt be unusual.
It didnt pay anything to G as it felt it shouldnt do so whilst a complaint is in progress.
It feels the interest rate is too high as no bank account would return such a figure. 
It maintains its offer to return its commission of £2,478, which it feels is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
In replying to my information request, Impact advised it had started work on Gs renewal 
probably about mid-October as it had been waiting for details from the current insurer about 
claims during the policy year  it said thered been quite a few. It said this made it difficult to 
find a competitive quote and it had done quite a lot of work to find the policy it had. I note 
that whilst Impact sent me a copy of a record sheet its staff member filled out on 26 October 
it hasnt shown me any evidence of the extensive work it says it did in the two-week period in 
the run up to renewal.
At this point Impact has £5,000 of Gs money. It says it is willing to return the commission 
figure of £2,478 to G. That would mean it would be keeping £2,522 for (maybe) two weeks 
work. So I need to think about whether that is fair. And, I have to say, Im not sure that it is.
This is a commercial policy and it does clearly detail that Impact charges a fee on top of the 
premium the insurer charges. It also clearly sets out that, upon cancellation, the fee is 
non-refundable. I bear in mind that Mr P, who is in business, didnt receive renewal 
documents from Impact until the day before renewal was due to commence, and he doesnt 
seem to have chased it for that information earlier. I think he could have done  knowing that 
renewal was approaching and he may want to shop around. But even taking all that into 
account, I dont think that means Impact can fairly keep the majority of the deposit paid.
I would usually expect renewal documents to be issued two to four weeks before the renewal 
date. But I realise this is a commercial policy and the risk of accidents and claims are higher 
for this type of cover. So I accept that any renewal research may reasonably need to be 
done a bit closer to the date of expiry of the old policy than I see for other types of cover. 
I also understand that Impact needed data from the insurer before it could do the renewal 
work. But Impact hasnt shown me what date it asked the insurer for the information  or 
what date it was provided. And if the insurer didnt respond in good order, I think Impact 
should have managed receipt of that important information better. I think the first time Mr P 
was told of the renewal price was likely the last day of cover. I dont think that was 
reasonable and likely did affect his ability to shop around earlier. I accept that he felt under 
pressure to accept the renewal, as it was important for Gs business that cover didnt lapse. 
I bear in mind that whilst this is a commercial policy this service still generally finds it unfair 
for commission to be kept where a policy is cancelled during the cooling off period. Further, 
where fees are charged, we consider that only a fee proportionate to the work undertaken 
can fairly be kept. And that is with no element of profit being attained. Im mindful that Impacts fee wasnt termed as an arrangement fee. So I dont think it was 
charged or paid solely in respect of the work Impact did in arranging the renewal. I think it 
was envisaged it would cover the cost of work Impact would do over the coming policy year 
too.  But I accept, even though Impact hasn't shown me precise details of the work that it 
says it has done for G, that there would have been a number of actions it would have 
needed to take to arrange renewal. Those would likely have included: seeking information 
from Gs former insurer; looking to the insurance market and seeking quotes from the 
relevant insurers; and then examining the policies on offer to ensure that those were suitable 
for G. I think that would likely have required some considerable effort. Albeit that effort was 
only put in over a short period and Impact did no further work for G because of the 
cancellation. I think its reasonable though that it gets paid for the work it did do. And, while 
I can't say with any certainty exactly what the costs to Impact were, from the information I do 
have, a figure of £500 would seem proportionate in the circumstances. Which means I think 
£500 is a fair fee for Impact to be allowed to keep, with it needing to return the remainder of 
the deposit  £4,500  to G. 
Im also going to require Impact to add interest to the amount to be reimbursed. Whilst 
Impact has offered to return various sums to date, nothing has been paid. It could have been 
paid on a without prejudice basis, with Mr P being told he could accept it as an interim 
payment and still complain. That way G would have had the benefit of the money in the 
meantime. But Impact didnt do that  it kept money that was fairly owing to G and G was left 
out of pocket. So I think requiring Impact to add 8% simple interest to the sum of £4,500 
from 28 October 2020 (the date the policy was cancelled) until reimbursement is made, is 
fair and reasonable.
To answer Mr Ps query first: G paid a deposit to Impact of £5,000, Im saying Impact must 
return £4,500 of that money to G. In my view its only fair and reasonable for Impact to keep 
£500 of the deposit G paid.  Ill now consider Impacts objections in that respect.
I dont dispute that Impacts paperwork is clear and that Mr P did know, or could have 
known, about the non-refundable nature of the fee that formed part of the deposit cost. But 
that doesnt mean its fair for Impact to keep all of that fee. Regardless of what later 
happened with the cover, Impact was happy to deal with this as a cancellation made within 
the cooling off period. And it was on that basis that it asked for the refund of deposit from G. 
So I think its reasonable to consider the fairness or Impacts request in the same way we 
would where a cancellation within the cooling off period actually occurred. As I explained 
provisionally, in that instance, Impact can only fairly keep an amount commensurate with the 
work it did, with no element of profit.
For me to accept Impact did 16 hours worth of work, even if spread over a fortnight, Id have 
to see evidence of that. Not just Impacts word that this is not an unreasonable or unusual 
amount of work for it to do when arranging this type of cover. But even if evidence like this 
had been shown (which it hasnt), Ive looked at the hourly rate that would be generated from 
those figures. Impacts usual fee is £2,246, but here it wants to be able to keep £2,522 for 
the work it did arranging Gs policy. For 16 hours of work that equates to £158 an hour. That 
seems like a substantial sum to me and Im not persuaded it equates to fair recompense for 
the work done in that time, with no element of profit. Which, as I said provisionally, is all 
Impact can fairly keep.I can understand why Impact didnt pay anything to G whilst a complaint was underway. And 
I cant advise either party what they should or shouldnt do to progress or pursue matters in 
the course of a complaint. But I often see financial businesses make payments to customers, 
even whilst a dispute is on-going and the customer doesnt accept the amount on offer is all 
they are due. The business often makes a payment like this as an interim payment because 
it is satisfied, regardless of the complaint, that it should fairly be paying that sum to the 
customer. And where we assess a complaint and see that funds like this could have been 
paid but werent, we will sometimes award interest.
Our interest awards are usually made at a rate of 8% simple. This is a figure the courts often 
award for damages and it is a rate which we usually think is fair. 
I note Impact is still prepared to offer the return of its commission figure, in settlement of this 
complaint. However, having considered everything in light of Impacts objections to my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded to move away from my findings or award. As such, 
my provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision. If G accepts my final 
decision within the deadline set, Impact will have to return to G all but £500 of the £5,000 
deposit paid, plus interest*. 
Putting things right
I require Impact to pay G £4,500, plus interest* applied from 28 October 2020 until 
settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Impact considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to G, it should tell G how much its taken off. It should also 
give G a certificate showing this if G asks for one, so G can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Impact Insurance Services (Bolton) Ltd to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman