DRN-3591968
The complaint
Mr M complains that FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit unfairly handled the termination of 
a hire purchase agreement resulting in end of contract charges being invoiced. Mr M says it 
would be fair for these charges to be cancelled.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr M entered into a three-year hire purchase with FCE for a new car. 
Under the agreement there were 38 monthly payments of £295.36 starting in December 
2017 and an optional final payment of £10,576 if he wished to keep the car. The agreement 
also set out there was a 6,000 annual mileage limit.
As the agreement was nearing its term, Mr M had wanted to use the car in part-exchange for 
another particular model but there were problems with this cars availability. In January 2021 
he contacted FCE about the possibility of extending his hire purchase agreement but was 
advised this would only be possible if he had actually ordered the new car. 
Mr M says he decided not to pursue the model of car hed been interested in and instead 
arranged to acquire a different make and model. This meant he needed to hand the car back 
to FCE and end the agreement. Mr M says that he originally spoke with the supplying dealer 
about returning the car and that he was told the car was worth more than the settlement 
figure. He also says he was told that due to the situation with Covid, he would need to speak 
with FCE to return the car.
Mr M says that in January 2021 he spoke with FCE and provided details of the car including 
its current mileage (which had exceeded the limit in the agreement). He says that FCE didnt 
inform him that he could face charges for the excess mileage and/or for the condition of the 
car.
Mr M also says that hed had several agreements in the past with FCE for cars. He says that 
at the end of each of these agreements, the car had then been used in part exchange for 
another one and a new credit agreement arranged. He says that in the past he hadnt been 
charged for exceeding the mileage limit because the cars had had some equity in their value 
which was passed on to the next car. 
Mr M decided to return the car to FCE, and arrangements were made for it to be inspected 
and collected. The car was first inspected at Mr Ms home and issues with dirty upholstery, a 
missing parcel shelf, missing second key, a dent in the rear door and missing locking wheel 
nut were recorded.
The car was collected around two weeks later and a second inspection was carried out. Mr 
M had returned the parcel shelf and so the charge for that was removed, however the 
second key, although returned, was broken and didnt work. The charge for the key therefore 
remained. 
The second inspection set out the issues that had been identified in the first report but also 
included additional damage to the front and rear bumpers, a dent on the quarter panel and 
scratch on the tailgate. This report calculated that the damage charges were higher than had 
been recorded in the first report.
Under the agreement the mileage limit was set at 6,000 per year. However, when the car 
was handed back, the mileage was recorded as 38,933 and so an excess mileage charge of 
£1,865.57 was applied to the end of contract invoice in addition to charges for the damage 
found.
Mr M was notified by FCE that there were end of contract charges amounting to £2,319.82 in 
total. This amount was made up of £1,865.57 for the excess mileage charge and £454.25 for 
the damage found to the car which was considered to be beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr M complained to FCE about the charges. He said that when speaking with FCE it hadnt 
advised him of the potential liability he faced due to the excess mileage or for the condition 
of the car. Mr M said that had he been aware of these costs he would have arranged to sell 
the car privately. He said that in the past he hadnt been charged for excess mileage nor for 
any minor issues with wear and tear.
FCE didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said in the past Mr M had used the cars he had under 
credit agreements to part exchange for another model. This meant that the car hadnt been 
returned to FCE but taken by the dealership. So, no inspections had taken place and it was 
a matter for the dealership to assess the cars condition and mileage. However here the car 
had been returned to FCE, and in accordance with the agreements terms and conditions Mr 
M was responsible for the excess mileage charge and any damage found to the car which 
was beyond fair wear and tear.
FCE disagreed that it had misled Mr M about the potential end of contract charges and said 
it had only spoken with him in January 2021 about the possibility of extending the 
agreement.  It said Mr M had chosen to hand the car back and end the agreement.
FCE also said that Mr M had benefited from having a lower mileage limit on the agreement 
as this had meant the monthly instalments were lower. 
FCE acknowledged that the second inspection had revealed further damage not recorded at 
the first, resulting in a higher figure than originally stated. However, in order to be fair to Mr 
M, FCE said it had only invoiced the lower figure which had been reached at the first 
inspection.
Mr M disagreed with FCEs decision and complained to this service. He said that he had 
several credit agreements for cars with FCE in the past and had always part-exchanged the 
cars for another in the past. He had planned to do the same thing with this car but had found 
the model he wanted had delays in its availability so decided to do something else instead 
which required the ending of this agreement. 
Mr M says that both the dealership and FCE told him the cars value was greater than the 
settlement figure and he could hand the car back without owing anything. He said he had 
discussed both the cars mileage and its condition with FCE but was never advised there 
would be an issue. 
Mr M said as there had been a delay between the two inspections, he should have been 
advised after the first one that the car would need to be valeted and also told that he would 
face costs for the damage found. He said he had been misled by FCE who had also 
provided him with an unsatisfactory service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint was upheld. He said in respect of the excess mileage charge, that the agreement was clear if the mileage limit was exceeded 
there would be a charge and how that would be calculated. He thought it was reasonable to 
say Mr M should have been aware of that and it was reasonable for FCE to have imposed 
this charge.
In regard to the damage costs, our investigator said under the agreement it was Mr Ms 
responsibility to keep the car in good condition and that he would be liable for any damage 
incurred. He said looking at the inspection reports, he thought the damage costs had been 
fairly raised by FCE.
Our investigator disagreed that Mr M had been misled by FCE about the potential costs of 
returning the car. He said he thought FCE had followed its processes when the car had been 
handed back and applied the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said there had been an established pattern 
in the past by FCE in not charging him excess mileage charges or for any damage found on 
the vehicle at the end of an agreement. He said it was reasonable for him to expect the 
same thing this time and he should have been specifically told there would be a charge for 
excess mileage prior to his handing the car back. Mr M asked that his calls with FCE should 
be listened to.
Mr M queried why he had faced additional charges when he had paid at least half of the total 
credit borrowed under the agreement.
Mr M also said that although he agreed there had been damage to the car, he hadnt been 
told it required a valet and he thought the charge for this had been unfair. He said that there 
had been a gap between the two inspections, and so he should have been told after the first 
that he faced charges. Mr M said had he been aware of the costs he potentially faced he 
would have decided to do something else rather than hand the car back to FCE.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision Ive looked at a copy of the hire purchase agreement Mr M had with 
FCE for the car, the two inspection reports, the notes made by FCE on Mr Ms account and 
Mr Ms detailed submissions about his complaint. 
I havent been able to listen to the calls between Mr M and FCE, as these are no longer in 
existence. But this doesnt surprise me as its not unusual for a business to keep call 
recordings only for a limited time. I also wouldnt have expected FCE to make special 
arrangements for these calls even if a complaint had been made as this wouldnt be 
practicable.  Where evidence is missing or contradictory then its for me to decide what I 
think is the most likely thing to have happened. 
Ive seen that Mr M has, in the past, used vehicles in part exchange for another a vehicle 
and a new credit agreement. But Im afraid I disagree with his view that because of this, FCE 
had developed a pattern of not charging for excess mileage or minor damage. This is 
because when a car is part exchanged its a matter for the dealership to decide the value of 
the car and FCE is not involved in that. Here the situation was different as Mr M was handing 
the car back to FCE and ending the agreement and FCE has its own processes to follow. I 
think it would be reasonable to have expected Mr M to have been aware that what had 
happened before may not happen this time.Looking at the hire purchase agreement, I think the terms and conditions are clear as to both 
any excess mileage charge and if the car is returned with damage. In regard to the annual 
mileage limit this is set out as 6,000 in the agreement and that if this is exceeded then a 
charge per mile will be applied. This isnt an unusual term as mileage impacts on the value 
of the car and lower mileage limits mean that monthly instalments will be less.
Mr M says that FCE should have specifically addressed the excess mileage fee with him but 
again Im afraid I disagree. Mr M, by signing the agreement, will have been expected to have 
been aware of this term and to have agreed to be bound by it. So, I wouldnt expect FCE to 
have raised this with Mr M when he had asked about the returning the car.
Ive seen that Mr M says he told FCE about the excess mileage on the car but, even with 
that information, it hadnt advised about the excess mileage charge. But I dont know what 
was said between Mr M and FCE. Ive seen that Mr M spoke with the dealership about the 
cars condition and mileage when he was looking at using it for another part exchange. And 
he says the dealership had said the car was worth more than the settlement figure. 
However, I cant hold FCE responsible for anything said by the dealership nor was it bound 
by any value the dealership had given for the car.
Ive looked at the contact notes created by FCE and Ive seen that there was a conversation 
between Mr M and FCE in mid-January 2021. This call was Mr M contacting FCE about 
placing an order for a new model of car and the possible delays that may arise. FCE had 
advised Mr M that his current hire purchase agreement couldnt be extended until it had 
received notice that hed actually ordered a new car. Ive seen that a few days later an 
extension of four months was offered to Mr M. However, the following day the dealership 
sent FCE the inspect and collect form for Mr Ms car. So, it appears from the notes that Mr M 
had decided to hand the car back at this point which seems to be after minimal contact with 
FCE. 
In early February 2021 Mr M rang FCE seeking an update on the inspection and collection of 
his car. I wouldnt have expected FCE to discuss any possible end of contract charges at this 
point because the car hadnt been inspected yet. And although I dont know if Mr M gave the 
cars current mileage at this point, if he had, I dont think I can reasonably say FCE has 
misled Mr M about any possible excess mileage charge as I havent seen that Mr M says 
FCE had told him this charge wouldnt be applied. It seems more likely that FCE didnt 
volunteer there would be an excess mileage fee. Mr M also doesnt appear to have directly 
asked FCE if he would face any excess mileage charge. And in light of the terms and 
conditions of the agreement being so clear, I dont think I can fairly say that because FCE 
didnt raise any potential excess mileage charge with him that it had misled him into 
believing it would not be charged when the car was returned and the agreement ended.
In regard to the damages to the car, Ive seen that Mr M appears to agree that there were 
some issues with the car. Looking at the two inspection reports which include photos of the 
car, I can see the damage would fall outside what would be considered fair wear and tear. 
Mr M says that it was unfair he wasnt advised about these costs when the car was first 
inspected as there was a gap before the second inspection was undertaken. However, 
FCEs process is for the car to be inspected twice, so I cant reasonably say FCE wasnt 
following its own procedures here. It isnt FCEs process to raise a damage invoice until the 
second inspection had happened and so I dont think FCE acted unfairly in not doing so in 
Mr Ms case.
Mr M says the £30 valet charge is unfair as he wasnt advised that one was required. 
Looking at the photo Ive seen that the interior of the car was very dirty. However, Ive also 
seen that further damage to the car was found at the second inspection which wasnt 
charged for because FCE decided to apply the lower amount as set out in the first inspection. In light of this and that the cars interior was, I think, far dirtier than would be 
expected with usual use, I think the £30 valet charge was fair. Ive seen FCE removed the 
charge for the parcel shelf after that had been returned so it had acted fairly as to what 
charges had been applied.
Mr M has raised the half rule in respect of the amount he had paid under the hire purchase 
agreement. This applies when a consumer has paid at least half the total amount payable 
under the agreement and entitles them to be able to end the contract early and return the car 
with nothing further to pay. However, although Mr M had paid the required amount this term 
states there will be nothing further to pay if you have taken reasonable care of the goods, 
meaning any charges for damage would still be applied. And under the excess mileage term 
it states that if the agreement is ended early for any reason the annual mileage will be 
proportionally reduced for the purpose of calculating any due excess mileage charge. So, 
although Mr M had paid at least half of the total credit borrowed, under the agreement both 
costs for any damage and the excess mileage charge would still be applied.
While I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr M, for the reasons set out above Im 
not upholding his complaint. I dont think FCE has acted unfairly in applying the excess 
mileage charge or the damage charges for the car to Mr Ms account. These charges and 
the circumstances in which they would be applied were clearly set out in the hire purchase 
agreement which Mr M had signed showing he agreed to them.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman