DRN-3349052
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund him money he paid to a company 
which he says did not adequately provide him with services promised.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr S made several payments to a company I will refer to as Q in this decision.  
These payments were made via an online website using Mr Ss Lloyds Bank debit card, 
which amounted to approximately £2,200.
Qs website can be described in common parlance as a dating website.  Mr S argues that Q 
did not adequately provide him with the services he was promised when he signed up to 
their website.  Examples include: enhanced photographs of women on the website (taken at 
photoshoots), the women not being single, issues with the redirection of telephone calls and 
subpar camera and chat functions.
Mr S contacted Lloyds Bank about the above and requested a refund of his payments to Q.  
As a result, Lloyds Bank credited two temporary refunds to Mr Ss account totalling the 
amounts in question.  It also raised a chargeback claim.  Q defended the claim and Lloyds 
Bank re-debited the refunds from Mr Ss account.
Unhappy with this, Mr S raised a complaint which he referred to our Service.  Part of his 
complaint is that the re-debiting resulted in his account going into a negative balance, which 
has caused him financial difficulties.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  Because Mr S did 
not accept the investigators findings, the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Chargeback
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, Lloyds Bank) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to 
continue with the chargeback process on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Mr S).
I have had sight of Qs chargeback defence, and all the information Mr S submitted to Lloyds 
Bank (including his testimony to it and our Service).  Having considered this, I find Lloyds 
Bank acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to continue with Mr Ss chargeback 
claim.
I say this because based on the evidence Q submitted to Lloyds Bank, I am persuaded that 
Q carried out their services as promised.  I do acknowledge Mr S feels otherwise.  However, 
Qs terms and conditions  which Mr S agreed to  sets out qualifications and exclusions 
regarding what they can be held liable for.  This includes not being liable for the services Mr 
S says Q did not adequately provide him (mentioned in the above section).
Therefore, I am satisfied that Lloyds Bank acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to 
continue with Mr Ss chargeback claim.  Based on the evidence before me, I find that such a 
claim had no reasonable prospect of success.
I acknowledge Mr S has referred to how other banks have addressed chargeback claims he 
has raised with them.  However, I must deal with each matter on a case by case basis, so I 
will only be focusing on the complaint in hand.
Temporary refund
Mr S has expressed concerns about Lloyds Bank re-debiting the funds credited to his 
account pending his chargeback claim, which he says has caused him financial difficulties.
I have listened to a telephone call which took place between Mr S and Lloyds Bank.  During 
the course of that call, Lloyds Bank made it clear to Mr S that the refund was temporary and 
could be re-debited subject to the outcome of his chargeback claim.  Not only did Mr S 
accept this in the call, he also expressed his own knowledge of the chargeback process 
stating that a refund was temporary.
Taking all the above points together, I will not be asking Lloyds Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman