DRN-2846773
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a 
claim under their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R was involved in a collision with another car. Mr R says, in brief, that the other car was 
parked on a double yellow line. He says that as he drove past it, the driver of the other car 
opened their door into the side of his car, causing damage to both cars. Mr and Mrs R are 
dissatisfied that Admiral decided to settle the claim on a 50:50 basis. They dont consider 
that it investigated the incident properly before deciding to do so. And they believe that 
Admirals decision may have been influenced by the fact that it was also the insurer of the 
other driver.  
One of our investigators looked at the complaint, and he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary, that the case came down to one version of events against another, and on 
the available evidence, he thought Admiral wasnt unreasonable to decide to split liability on 
a 50:50 basis. And he didnt think it had done anything wrong in the way it investigated the 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I should make clear at the outset that it isnt my role to decide who was actually at fault for 
an accident. Thats a matter for the courts. Instead, I need to consider whether the insurer 
has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its decision about liability.
My starting point is Mr and Mrs Rs insurance policy, which set out the claims procedure. 
This included whats sometimes referred to as a subrogation clause. It said:
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
take legal action over any claim in your name or the name of any person insured on 
the policy for our own benefit
admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf
investigate your claim and exchange information with other parties involved with the 
accident or claim. However, we will treat your information carefully and only reveal it 
in cases where we believe it is necessary.
This allows Admiral to take over, and deal with, any claim as it sees fit. It doesnt need a 
policyholders approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a payment to 
a third party. And it means that Admiral isnt required to take a case to court, even if they 
policyholder thinks it should do so. This type of term isnt unusual. We see it in most motor 
insurance policies. 
So Ive considered everything thats been provided to see whether I think that Admiral acted 
fairly and reasonably in deciding to settle the claim on a 50:50 basis.
I can see that Admiral considered the damage to the cars and the version of events provided 
by each of the parties. It tried to obtain CCTV footage from two different sources. But it 
turned out that the cameras used by one of the sources werent operational, and no reply 
was received from the other source in spite of several requests being sent. Although 
I understand that there were people in the vicinity when the incident happened, Mr and 
Mrs R havent been able to identify any of them and I dont think it would be reasonable to 
expect Admiral to take steps to find out who they were.
Admiral consulted its engineer, who said it appeared that the other drivers door was in the 
process of being opened, and Mr R hadnt had enough time to react. But they said both 
drivers versions of events were plausible and the damage seemed consistent with both 
versions. So they were unable to determine what happened from the photos of the cars, and 
they couldnt tell who was liable for the incident. 
This meant that there was no conclusive evidence available to Admiral to show which party 
was responsible, and essentially it came down to one persons word against the other.
Admiral is entitled to consider the evidence as a whole. And its entitled to take commercial 
considerations into account, such as the risk and costs of any potential legal action. Having 
done so, Admiral concluded that it wasnt confident that it could successfully prove that Mr R 
bore none of the blame for the incident. And it decided to settle the claim on a 50:50 basis. 
I think it was reasonable, given that Admiral didnt think the evidence it had was strong 
enough for it to be confident it would be able to recover the costs of doing so.
Mr and Mrs R may disagree with Admirals interpretation of the evidence, and may consider 
that there are other questions Admiral should have asked, and steps it should have taken 
before making its decision about settling the claim. For example, I know they feel strongly 
that Admiral should have done more to challenge the other drivers insurer about exactly 
what checks they carried out before opening their door. But having considered all the 
evidence, and everything that both parties have said, I dont find that Admiral failed to 
comply with the policy terms, or that it exercised its discretion unfairly or unreasonably in 
deciding to settle the claims as it did. And Ive seen nothing to make me think that the fact 
that the other driver was also insured with Admiral influenced its decision. Overall, I think 
Admiral investigated matters fairly and reasonably.
Mr and Mrs R remain free to pursue the matter through the courts if they wish to do so. And 
Admiral has said that if Mr and Mrs R are successful in any legal action about the incident, it 
will review its position. 
Mr and Mrs R have commented that they consider Admirals investigation of the matter to 
have been lacklustre, and that they had to repeatedly chase it. They say, in summary, that 
Admiral repeatedly avoided their questions, refused to answer some and only pursued 
matters when Mr and Mrs R chased them up.Admiral accepted that it hadnt chased one of the CCTV owners as quickly as it could have 
done, hadnt explained how the claim had been settled when it told Mr and Mrs R it told them 
it had closed its file, had failed to send an email as promised and had generally been poor in 
its communication. It offered Mr and Mrs R £100 compensation to apologise for this. I think 
this is a fair amount that reasonably reflects the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs R were 
caused. So, I wont be asking Admiral to pay any additional compensation.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R. I know that they feel very strongly that Admiral was 
unreasonable to decide to settle the claim in the way it did without conducting a more 
thorough investigation, and theyre generally dissatisfied with the way its dealt with them. 
But taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that it would be reasonable for me to 
require Admiral to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7  July 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman