DRN-2710169
The complaint
T complains about the service provided by Origen Financial Services Limited (Origen) 
when they took over an advisory service.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M are trustees of T, a gift trust containing an investment bond, taken for the 
benefit of inheritance tax mitigation. In March 2019, Origen took over the advisory service for 
the investment as the original provider had moved out of the market. This process was 
automatic and no opt out was selected.
Origen appointed a new adviser for T, but Mr and Mrs M felt she wasnt acting in the Trusts 
best interests and were disappointed that misleading information was given about the cost of 
reviews. A complaint was raised and a new adviser was appointed. A meeting took place on 
16 May 2019 about the existing trust and the possibility of further investment of £150,000.
Mr and Mrs M raised concern that the advisers had focused on pushing new investment, 
rather than reviewing the current investment, which had been Mr and Mrs Ms priority. 
Further, there were delays in review taking place and Mr and Mrs M were unhappy that 
incorrect information had been given about the review process and charges. Mr and Mrs M 
also felt uncomfortable having to meet the adviser at their home. Origen replaced the second 
adviser in July 2020.
Origen accept that an error was made in the information provided about charges for reviews. 
They say Mr and Mrs Ms concerns were acknowledged and a review was undertaken. They 
had provided new advisers and didnt think it was fair and reasonable to do anything more.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He took into account that very little information 
had been provided by Origen about the events at the outset and the first adviser. He thought 
it was likely that the wrong information had been given about charges for the review service. 
On balance, he preferred Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of events and recommended £150 to 
compensate T for inconvenience caused by the shortcoming in service. Our investigator 
considered that a review had been undertaken and it broadly covered the areas wed expect 
to see such as fund values, performance, thoughts about diversifying the invested funds and 
the wider financial landscape. Origen had pursued further investment and our investigator 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs M had felt this was a pushy tactic, but there was nothing to 
show that theyd asked Origen to stop the communication or made it clear that T wasnt 
interested in further investment. So, he didnt think Origen needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs M on behalf of T, dont agree with the outcome, they point to the impact the 
service shortcomings had and request an increase in compensation. Origen do not agree 
with the outcome, they submit that reasonable steps have been taken to address the 
concerns raised on behalf of T and say there was no significant inconvenience as to justify 
an award of compensation.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain at the outset that our service has no regulatory or disciplinary 
powers; these lie with the regulator. We provide informal dispute resolution service and 
assess the merits of complaint by assessing things on the balance of probabilities. Where 
things have gone wrong, we look to put things right on a fair and reasonable basis.
When Origen took over the advisory service, they explained that the same charging structure 
as held with the original firm would be followed for the first twelve months. The service 
included review and ongoing monitoring of the investment for an ongoing charge of 0.5% 
and any additional advice acted upon incurred an additional charge. Origen provided a copy 
of their Client Service Agreement, which explained their services in more detail. They 
advised that the charge would increase at the end of the twelve-month period.
Mr and Mrs M recall being told that a review would cost £350 when they booked to meet a 
private client adviser. They say that Origens first adviser then didnt listen to them, focused 
on self-promotion and new investment rather than the need to review the current investment. 
Theyve given a consistent account about this and Ive listened to the call in which Mrs M 
raises these concerns. I havent seen any call notes from the adviser to show what was 
discussed. I think its likely that incorrect information was given about the cost of reviews, 
again a consistent account has been given about this and Origen accept its likely this 
happened. Understandably this caused concern because Origen had agreed to honour the 
same charges and service as the original provider for the first twelve months, which included 
the cost of review. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that the initial service did 
fall short; it led the trustees to complain and a second adviser was appointed as a result.
Ive also considered the events with the second adviser. A meeting took place at Mr and Mrs 
Ms home in May 2019. Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M wouldve preferred to have 
had a meeting elsewhere, Ive borne in mind that Origen didnt have client facilities and 
theres no suggestion that consent wasnt giving for the meeting to take place. 
Following that meeting, the adviser wrote to Mr and Mrs M in May 2019, explaining the 
charges again and setting out her understanding of the reason for the trust, which was to 
reduce the value of the estate liable for inheritance tax.  At the outset it was recognised that 
current portfolio analysis would be sensible. An updated assessment of the combined estate 
value for Mr and Mrs M was given and an additional inheritance tax liability was discussed. 
The main objective for investment was to reduce overall inheritance tax liability. Mr and Mrs 
M were to notify the adviser as to how much theyd like to invest and analysis would be 
undertaken as to whether to top up the current investment or invest in a new wrapper. The 
cost of any new advice would be 3% of the value being invested. 
The adviser sent a chaser but didnt receive a response, so sent a letter dated 19 June 
2019, enclosing the annual customer report for the bond and went on to address a review. 
The adviser confirmed that the current asset allocation was in line with a moderate risk 
profile albeit slightly lower in equities. The adviser discussed the utilisation of managed 
funds as opposed to single sector funds, as this had been raised at the meeting. She 
explained that steps were being taken to investigate fund options, which could then be 
considered. The current charges for the investment were given.
In addition, the adviser addressed the comparative charges for investing additional funds in 
the current bond or in a new investment, giving a recommendation that a new product would 
provide a more diversified portfolio. The adviser said that options could be discussed further once Mr and Mrs M had decided how much theyd like to invest and she offered to go 
through any details in the annual review or letter in more detail. 
Some update calls were made whilst the adviser waited for information, she then wrote to Mr 
and Mrs M in August 2019, confirming her view that a further investment would be the best 
option and that research could be undertaken to recommend a suitable wrapper, the adviser 
set out details of a discount in fees for this advice and sent examples of managed funds.
A series of chaser emails were sent by the adviser seeking a response to the proposals for 
further investment and Ive seen that calls were also made.
On balance, I think Origen did provide a broad review of the bond, which included the asset 
breakdown, performance of funds and discussion around potential changes to managed 
funds. Further, it wasnt unreasonable to make a recommendation for additional investment 
given that inheritance tax planning was an ongoing objective and a further exposure had 
been discussed. The presentation of fees with a discount simply gave a realistic figure for 
the cost of any additional advice and at this stage it was for Mr and Mrs M to say whether 
they wished the adviser to proceed. Mr and Mrs M have indicated that they felt Origen was 
only interested in getting them to invest more, but Ive also taken into account that there 
wasnt a clear response to the adviser to say they didnt wish to pursue further investment. I 
cant fairly say that Origen did anything wrong in seeking a response to the information 
provided. So, I wont be asking Origen to do anything more.
Putting things right
Mrs M says she suffered distress and anxiety as a result of dealings with the first two 
advisers. But as our investigator has explained, the complaint is brought by T, so whilst I can 
consider inconvenience, Im not assessing any separate upset caused to the trustees 
personally. On balance, Im persuaded that T was put to inconvenience initially as the 
trustees were given misleading information, had an unproductive call and were put to the 
inconvenience of complaining to change adviser. 
Ive considered that Origen did replace the first adviser and later took steps to change the 
adviser again, but Im persuaded that it is appropriate to provide some compensation for the 
initial shortcomings in service. I consider that the trustees have given a consistent and 
reliable account about the impact the initial shortcomings had. Overall, I think £150 is fair 
and reasonable compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding this complaint in part. I direct Origen Financial 
Serviced Limited to pay T £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman