DRN-4201679
The complaint
Mr C complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) for delays in carrying 
out repairs at his home. He wants Admiral to complete the repairs and to pay him 
compensation for loss of use of his garden for a prolonged time.
What happened
Mr C insured his home with Admiral. 
In February 2022, his home was damaged by a storm. Part of the roof was damaged, and 
part of his boundary wall was brought down. 
He submitted a claim to Admiral. Admiral sent a loss adjuster out around 2 weeks later. 
Admiral then accepted the claim. After some delays, the roof repairs were settled and 
completed in April 2022. The wall debris was also cleared. The boundary wall, however, was 
not repaired. 
Mr C wanted Admirals contractors to carry out the repairs and to rebuild the wall. Mr C 
reported a lack of communication from Admiral, including about progress and who was 
responsible for the wall rebuild. 
In June 2022, Mr C complained to Admiral. Admiral responded on 21 June 2022. It accepted 
that there had been unacceptable delays to the wall rebuild and that there had been 
instances of poor communication. 
Admiral offered Mr C £325 compensation to reflect the delays and issues with service to that 
point. Mr C was not happy with this and contacted us. The wall remained unbuilt and there 
were further delays in arranging contractors able to carry out the rebuild. 
Mr C explained that this impacted upon his familys life as they were not able to use their 
garden and pool privately with the wall missing, and that their homes security was 
compromised so they were unable to holiday. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
They explained that our rules only allow us to look at the substance of a complaint up until 
the final response letter is sent, and that issues which arise after that response ought to be 
put to the business in a further complaint before we can look at them. 
Based, then, on the period of delay at the time of the final response being around 3-4 
months, the investigator considered that the offer of compensation was reasonable. 
Mr C did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He pointed out that the 
wall remained unbuilt by March 2023, and he had encountered difficulties getting alternative 
insurance cover as he was unable to explain the status of the wall rebuild when applying for 
insurance.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in May 2023. In that provisional 
decision I explained that I agreed with my colleague and that they were correct that our rules 
meant we could only consider complaints which had been put to the business first. I 
explained however that, if the business agreed, I thought it appropriate to consider the full 
period of delays in one go, rather than in a piecemeal fashion. 
I explained that I considered that to fairly resolve the whole period of delays then Admiral 
should complete the wall repair works by the end of May 2023, and pay to Mr C £1500 to 
reflect his distress and inconvenience over the whole period. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Admiral has responded, accepting the basis of the provisional decision, but advising that it 
has responded to subsequent complaints of delay from Mr C and cumulatively has paid 
more compensation than I set out in my provisional decision. It states that it considers that 
the compensation it has paid is adequate. 
Mr C has acknowledged this and accepted that he has received more than £1500 
compensation over the period since the wall was damaged. He accepts the provisional 
decision also, but makes the point that some work is still outstanding (to the pool) and that a 
skip and facilities remain on his property beyond the May end point that Admiral had 
indicated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no arguments have been made against my assessment of fair compensation and a fair 
approach to this complaint, I remain of the view set out in my provisional decision and I 
adopt that decision and reasoning. 
I am satisfied that Admiral has paid the level of compensation I provisionally directed, and I 
do not ask it to do anything more in respect of this complaint. 
Mr C has advised that some work, which was outside of the original complaint, is ongoing 
and that some work materials and facilities remain on his property. 
As these issues are outside of the referred complaint, I cannot make a determination on 
them but would advise Admiral to ensure the remaining works are completed and materials 
cleared in a reasonable time to avoid further complaint. 
Putting things right
Admiral has already taken action to put matters right. It should now continue the current 
works and remove materials from Mr Cs home in reasonable time. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and 
direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Complete repairs to the boundary wall by the end of May 2023; and
To pay £1500 compensation to Mr C for his distress and inconvenience. This sum includes any other compensation already paid to Mr C for these delays. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman