DRN-4340427
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) have failed to refund money 
that Mr F lost as part of an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr F was contacted after signing up to an online company by someone who said they 
worked for what claimed to be an AI quantitative trading company that I will call B. From 
what I can see he made the following debit card payments to Coinbase which were used to 
buy cryptocurrencies and were then forwarded onto B.
The payments made were as follows;
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 17/06/2022 CB Payments £100 £100
2 17/06/2022 CB Payments £105.93 £205.93
3 23/06/2022 CB Payments £100.26 £306.19
4 25/06/2022 CB Payments £264.78 £570.97
5 04/07/2022 CB Payments £1,000 £1,570.97
6 11/07/2022 CB Payments £2,000 £3,570.97
7 12/07/2022 CB Payments £1,000 £4,570.97
8 19/07/2022 Coinbase £314.82 £4,885.79
Mr F tried to withdraw some of the funds that he had paid to B but was unable to, at this 
point he realised he had been scammed.
Mr F raised a complaint with RBS as he believed that RBS should have stopped him from 
making the payments in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter they decided that the transactions were not 
sufficiently out of character to warrant an intervention by RBS and that there were no other 
means of RBS recovering the funds.
Mr F did not agree with this and therefore his complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr F authorised the disputed payments he made to Coinbase using his 
RBS debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from his 
crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials 
provided by RBS, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given 
by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether RBS should have done more to prevent Mr F from falling 
victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it 
was particularly out of character. However, having taken Mr Fs account activity and limited 
payment history into account, I do not think the payments he is disputing should have been 
regarded as particularly unusual.
I note that there was an intervention in relation to the first payment but that was limited to 
RBS making sure the payment was authorised. I dont think that RBS needed to do more.
The remaining payments were not of such a large amount that they would represent a 
significant deviation from what would be considered as usual activity. I accept that the 
£2,000 payment does represent a larger payment than Mr F usually made, but not 
sufficiently so, in my opinion, to have necessitated an intervention from RBS. Especially as 
five other payments had been made to the same account over a four-week period.
So, having considered the payments Mr F made, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered RBSs fraud monitoring systems (apart from the first 
payment being checked that it was genuine), or that would have indicated he was in the 
process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to have been any obligation on 
RBS to have intervened any further
Ive also thought about whether RBS did enough to attempt to recover the money Mr F lost, 
as there are some instances where debit card transactions can be refunded through making 
a chargeback claim. 
In this case, a chargeback would not have been successful, as the transactions Mr F used 
his debit card for was to pay Coinbase for the purchase of cryptocurrency, which he duly 
received. It was only when the cryptocurrency was transferred from his crypto wallet to the 
scammer did the loss then occur. So, he could not claim that he did not receive the goods or 
services paid for from his RBS account, which was the purchase of the cryptocurrency. As a 
result, I dont think RBS have acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback claim 
here.
In relation to recovering the funds by other means, given that the payments were via debit 
card, I dont think that there were any other means of RBS recovering the funds in question.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that RBS can fairly or reasonably be 
held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 Charlie Newton
Ombudsman