DRN-3842311
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain about U K Insurance Limited (UKI), trading as Direct Line, for the 
way it handled their insurance renewal. They want UKI to apologise and to increase its offer 
of compensation. 
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D are landlords. They have held landlords insurance with UKI for some time. 
In August 2022, UKI sent its renewal quote for their insurance. This quote was for around 
£590.00
The renewal information detailed some costs of an earlier claim, which were disputed. 
In September 2022, Mr D contacted UKI and asked to have the disputed claim details 
removed from the policy information and renewal. This was shortly before the policy was due 
to renew.
UKIs adviser explained that its systems did not allow this, and that to proceed with different 
claims information they would need to carry out a new business quote. 
Mr D told UKI that he did not want to proceed and that he would go elsewhere for cover. The 
agent marked his renewal as do not renew.
Mr D later called back and wished to proceed with the renewal. The agent he spoke to was 
unable to resurrect the renewal and could only obtain a new quote which was for a 
significantly higher amount. 
The agent agreed to try to revive the earlier renewal and to call Mr D back. 
UKI did not return this call. 
Mr D called again and spoke with another agent. They escalated the request for the renewal 
price to be reinstated but were unable to ensure that was done before the renewal date, 
when the existing policy would lapse. 
Mr D was unable to leave his properties uninsured, so he took out a further policy. 
UKI then contacted him and was able to reinstate the renewal at the lower price. Mr D then 
cancelled his second policy and duly received a refund for this. 
Mr D submitted a complaint. He acknowledged that this had all taken place very close to the 
expiry of the renewal offer, but thought that it being closed off to him, by being marked do 
not renew had caused him inconvenience of having to take out additional cover while his 
query was looked at by UKI. He was also upset that the first agent had not returned his call 
as he had been promised. 
UKI responded to his complaint. Initially it apologised and offered him £25 to reflect his 
distress and inconvenience and then increased this by a further £25, making the 
compensation a total of £50. 
Mr D and Mrs D remained unhappy and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
They agreed that UKI ought to have returned the call as promised but considered that UKI 
had made a reasonable offer of compensation to reflect this. 
Mr D and Mrs D did not accept this and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D and Mrs Ds frustration that they encountered difficulties when trying to 
renew their insurance. UKI has acknowledged that the renewal offer ought to have remained 
open to be accepted for the entirety of the renewal period. 
I do, however, think that the agents Mr D spoke to acted reasonably during their calls, both 
in marking the policy not to auto renew  as this would have created a different issue if it had 
proceeded against Mr Ds instructions  and in advising Mr D what its system could and 
could not do. 
I agree that UKI failed in its customer service by not returning the call when promised, and 
that this added some time pressure to Mr D and Mrs Ds decision to take out a new quote, 
but overall I think that UKI acted reasonably and promptly in addressing the situation, 
advising Mr D and in putting matters right. 
I therefore agree with my colleague that UKIs offer is reasonable to reflect the failings in this 
matter, namely the failure to return a call, and so I do not ask UKI to do anything further. 
Mr D has advised that the second £25 offered has not been received, and this is being taken 
forward. UKI has assured Mr D that this will be paid and Mr D is aware that if he encounters 
any problems receiving this he can complain about that to UKI in due course. 
I am aware that Mr D and Mrs D do not think that the offer is sufficient, however I am 
satisfied that it is in line with other awards we would make in similar circumstances and I 
think it a reasonable offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint and do not ask U 
K Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman