DRN-3684884
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited has declined a claim she made on her contents 
insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Miss S got in touch with Ageas after some of her contents were stolen from her 
home.
Ageas said the theft hadnt involved force and violent entry to Miss S home and 
declined the claim.
Miss S thought Ageas had misinterpreted the policy wording and the policy term it 
had relied on didnt apply to her. Ageas maintained its position.
Our investigator agreed with Miss S interpretation of the policy term. He thought 
Ageas had unfairly declined the claim. He said Ageas should settle the claim and pay 
Miss S £250 compensation.
Miss S agreed with this. Ageas asked for an ombudsmans decision. It didnt provide 
any further comment or reasoning to explain why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers loss or damage caused by theft, subject to a number of terms and 
conditions. Ageas has relied on one policy term to decline the claim.
The meaning of this term is in dispute, so Ive quoted it exactly as it is in the policy wording. 
It says:
What we will not cover  theft not involving forcible and violent entry to, or exit from, 
your home if you have lent, let or sublet any part of your home, or whilst persons 
other than your household are staying there.
Ageas said there was no evidence of forcible and violent entry to Miss S home  and that 
meant the term applied.
How the thieves gained access to Miss S home remains uncertain, but I dont think it makes 
a difference in this case. Thats because the term only applies in situations which arent 
relevant here.
The term effectively says:
1. If you have lent, let or sublet any part of your home, or if persons other than your 
household were staying there at the relevant time and 
2. There wasnt forcible and violent entry to, or exit from, your home then 
3. Theft isnt covered.
The term is reliant on point 1. Unless Ageas can show the first point is an accurate reflection 
of Miss S circumstances, the term is irrelevant to her claim. But Ageas has focused on the 
second point.
Theres no suggestion Miss S had lent, let or sublet any part of her home  or that any 
persons other than her household were staying with her around the time of the theft. So Im 
satisfied the policy term doesnt apply and it was unfair for Ageas to decline the claim.
This is the only reason given for declining Miss S claim, so the appropriate remedy is for 
Ageas to settle the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Im disappointed by the way Ageas has handled this claim. It clearly had its doubts about the 
meaning of the term.
Its internal notes describe it being not entirely happy with the wording of the term. It referred 
the matter to its underwriters who said the term meant:
We will cover theft involving forcible and violent entry to, or exit from, your home, if 
you have not lent, let or sublet any part of your home, or whilst persons other than 
your household are staying there. 
This makes the term inclusive rather than exclusive, which might unfairly change its impact 
in some cases. Nevertheless, even if I took it at face value, I dont understand how it 
supported Ageas decision to decline the claim. This interpretation still relies on my first point 
above. It has no impact if Miss S lives alone or with members of her household as the entire 
term only applies if she has done otherwise  which she hasnt. 
Put simply, neither the term as written in the policy or Ageas own interpretation of it require 
forcible and violent entry if Miss S lives alone or with members of her household. She does, 
so I cant understand how Ageas thought it was fair to decline the claim.
As a result, there has been a significant delay to settling the claim. Miss S has described 
how upsetting the theft itself was for her. Whilst that isnt something I can hold Ageas 
responsible for, the distress caused by the unnecessary delay during the claim has made 
things worse for Miss S and Ageas is responsible for that.
Im satisfied £250 compensation would be reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
settle the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
pay £250 compensationUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman