DRN-2969447
The complaint
Miss H complains that she was unable to port her mortgage with The Co-operative Bank Plc 
trading as Platform due to its unreasonably long application time. She asks that it refunds 
the early repayment charge (ERC) she paid.
What happened
Miss H had a mortgage with Platform. She had a fixed interest rate product with an ERC. 
Miss H contacted Platform in October 2020 about porting her mortgage as she wanted to 
move home. Platform said due to a high work load her application was likely to take four 
months. Miss H wanted to move before the end of the year and was worried about her sale 
and purchase falling through. She applied elsewhere and says she received a mortgage 
offer in two weeks. She paid an ERC of about £2,500 to Platform when she repaid her 
mortgage in November 2020.
Miss H says Platforms application timescale was unreasonable She says it didnt make 
these delays public, and given its size and means shouldnt have allowed service standards 
to slip so far. Miss H says its unfair for Platform to apply the ERC in these circumstances. 
Our investigator said Platform had warned Miss H about the timescales when she contacted 
it. There was no provision in the mortgage terms and conditions for an application to be 
completed within a specific period. Our investigator said the ERC was applied in accordance 
with the terms agreed by Miss H.
Our investigator said while Platform wasnt able to fit in with Miss Hs timescales, this didnt 
make it fair to require it to refund the ERC.
Miss H didnt agree, saying Platforms timescales were unreasonable. She said Platform 
imposed a unilateral implied contract term, giving itself the right to impose a timescale that 
would fetter her ability to port her mortgage. She had no choice but to go elsewhere. Miss H 
said there was no incentive for Platform to assist her as it knew it would receive the ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H took out a fixed interest rate product with an ERC which applied until August 2023. 
She agreed to the ERC when she took out the product. Miss H repaid the mortgage in 
November 2020 and Platform applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the mortgage 
terms and conditions.
Miss H doesnt dispute this though. She says its unfair for Platform to apply the ERC as its 
timescales made it impractical for her to apply to port the mortgage.
Miss H raised issues about how contract law might apply here. We provide an informal 
dispute resolution service. While we take law and regulation into account, only a court can 
decide whether theres been a breach of a law. If Miss H doesnt accept my decision, shell 
be free to raise her concerns in a court if she wants to do so.
Platform says it had an unusually high workload in late 2020 which meant it couldnt process 
applications within its normal timescales. Miss H says it shouldnt have allowed its service 
levels to slip so far. But, in fairness, I need to take into account the wider circumstances at 
the time. This includes how the Covid-19 pandemic and social distancing rules affected 
staffing, as well as the impact of the temporary relaxation of stamp duty. Platform has told us 
it simply wasnt able to work within its usual timescales. 
Platform says while some customers want to move within a short time, it doesnt prioritise 
them as this would unfairly increase the wait for other customers. Miss H has been open with 
us that she didnt have an urgent need to move (such as for her work), and not moving 
before the end of the year wouldnt have caused her hardship. While its understandable that 
Miss H wanted to move before the end of the year and was worried her purchase would fall 
through, this would also have been the case for other customers. It doesnt appear there was 
anything about Miss Hs particular circumstances that would have made it fair for Platform to 
prioritise her application above other customers. 
I think it was fair that Platform told Miss H at the outset that there were longer than normal 
timescales for applications. This allowed her to make a decision whether to proceed or to 
apply elsewhere. 
Miss H successfully applied for a mortgage from another lender. The mortgage she was 
offered is different from her mortgage with Platform in a number of ways  the amount of the 
loan increased (from about £80,000 to about £157,000), the fixed interest rate is lower 
(1.99% as compared to 2.59%) and the fixed interest rate product expires in December 2025 
(more than two years later than her product with Platform).
I dont know if Miss H is better or worse off financially for having paid the ERC and taken out 
a mortgage with another lender. Miss H paid an ERC of about £2,500. But she has the 
benefit of a lower fixed interest rate product which is in place for longer. And, while theres 
nothing to suggest that Platform wouldnt have offered Miss H a larger loan or that it wouldnt 
have assessed the property she bought as suitable security, lenders have different criteria 
and theres no guarantee of this. 
I understand the point made by Miss H  that a four-month timescale is unreasonable. It 
certainly didnt fit with her plans. Miss H had to make a difficult decision. She could make a 
porting application and risk her sale and purchase falling through due to the time this might 
take. Or she could apply elsewhere and pay the ERC. I do have sympathy for the situation 
she was in. But I dont think this makes it fair and reasonable to require Platform to refund 
the ERC. Miss H agreed to the ERC when she took out the fixed interest rate product. 
Platform told Miss H at the outset that her application would take longer than usual, and this 
was largely due to circumstances outside Platforms control. Ultimately, Miss H made a 
decision to move at this time, and to apply for a mortgage with another lender. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Ruth StevensonOmbudsman