DRN-3796709
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc should reopen the account they closed down when 
his account defaulted.
What happened
Mr S had a current account with Santander which had an overdraft. Santander took the 
decision to firstly reduce, then remove the overdraft and they asked him to arrange the 
repayment of his overdrawn balance. As Mr S was unable to do so, the account entered their 
collections process and then Santander registered a default with the credit reference 
agencies.
Mr S has already brought a complaint to our service, of which a final decision has been 
issued. The decision said that Santander should have realised Mr S had reached a position 
by December 2015, that he wasnt going to be able to clear his overdraft without help, so 
Santander should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms. As a result of the 
outcome of this complaint, Santander removed the default from Mr Ss credit file. 
Mr S says that as a result of this decision, Santander had unfairly closed his account. And he 
wanted Santander to now reopen this account. Mr S made a complaint to Santander, but 
they did not uphold it. They said that his account was closed as part of the collections and 
recoveries process and they were unable to reopen his account. They said he could apply 
for a new account, but it would not be guaranteed to be accepted. Mr S brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said while he appreciated that Mr S felt 
that the default, and subsequent closure was unfair, Santanders notes suggested he wasnt 
in a position to agree to a regular arrangement to pay off the overdraft outstanding balance 
and his financial difficulties werent short term either. He said the income and expenditure 
confirmed Mr S had a deficit of £77 a month, meaning his outgoings were more than his 
income. So, he didnt think Santander acted unfairly in taking steps to close the account and 
default it - as this stopped any further charges from being applied and the outstanding 
balance increasing in value.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that his bank account had 
only been closed due to the default and Santander treated him unfairly since 2015. He said if 
Santander had treated him fairly since 2015, there would not have been a default and the 
account would not have been closed in 2020. He said the Ombudsman should read the 
decision that was issued on his separate complaint and treat his current complaint as if the 
default had never happened. He said if the default never happened, his account would never 
have been closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
policies and procedures should be when closing or reopening an account due to collections 
activity. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the 
power to instruct Santander to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial 
businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case 
basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about 
whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr S has about wanting his account to be reopened. 
He feels that if the default would have never happened, then his account would have never 
been closed and he would be able to still use this account. So I do understand why this is 
important to him. 
Mr S has asked me to look at the decision our service made in January 2022, to provide 
context as to why it would be fair for Santander to reopen the account. Although I may 
reference part of this decision in my decision here, I want to be clear to Mr S that I wont be 
making any findings on the merits of any issues which have already been addressed as part 
of his separate complaint. 
The separate decision Mr S received from our service did not say that Santander should not 
have closed his account. The decision included the following paragraph: I know that Mr S is 
unhappy with Santander having reduced and then removed his overdraft in the period 
between 2019 and 2021. But as Ive found that Santander already ought to have taken 
corrective action in relation to Mr S overdraft some four years earlier, it follows that I dont 
think it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it did, albeit belatedly, eventually take this 
course of action. And therefore, Im not upholding this part of Mr S complaint.
As the decision has said, Santander should have taken corrective action previously. Its 
difficult to say what corrective action Santander should and would have took four years 
earlier. But its possible that the same thing which happened in 2020, (the account closing 
and defaulting) could have happened at an earlier point as Mr S was still heavily into his 
overdraft. And he had seemingly little means to be able to repay the overdraft back if 
Santander requested this. It would appear he may also struggle to repay any reduction in the 
arranged overdraft limit also if Santander requested this, based on his limited income and 
outgoings, which his statements show from that time period. So Im not persuaded that just 
because Santander removed the default that this means that they should also reopen the 
account.
It also appears that Mr S may have tried to close the account anyway. I say this as Ive 
looked at Santanders system notes prior to the account defaulting  as Mr S has indicated 
this should be considered as if the default never happened. But Santanders notes show that 
Mr S himself asked for the account to be closed  long before his account was closed and 
defaulted. 
The notes show that Santander received a letter from Mr S dated 31 March 2020. In which 
he told them he couldnt pay the overdraft or arrears and they should close his account. The 
notes show they attempted to contact Mr S to inform him that they were unable to close an 
account when a balance is owed to them, but they were unable to speak to him so they sent 
a letter to him to say that he should contact their collections department. 
The notes on 27 July 2020, show Mr S rang and spoke to Santander. The notes show that 
he advised them he had received a letter about the closure of the account and the call 
handler told him that the outstanding balance would need to be paid before the account 
closes. Again this was before the account defaulted. So Im not persuaded that Mr Ss account was only closed because of the default and 
therefore it should be reopened because Santander removed the default from his credit file. 
Mr S had encountered financial difficulties for a number of years before the default had been 
registered, which has been highlighted in a separate decision issued by our service. 
Its probable that if Santander had taken action a number of years earlier, that the outcome 
would have been the same in which Mr Ss account would have been closed. I say this as it 
would be unlikely (based on his statements showing his dependency on the overdraft) that 
Mr S would be able to repay the overdraft on demand (or within 30 days notice), as 
Santanders terms and conditions could ask him to, or to even pay a part of the arranged 
overdraft if they reduced his limit. 
In addition, Mr S may have instructed Santander to close his account down at an earlier 
point in time if they took this action years ago, as he did in 2020. Santanders terms and 
conditions allow them to request repayment of an overdraft or for them to close an account 
without reason, in the same way Mr S would have been able to close his account down (if 
there wasnt a balance owed to them) without reason. So for these reasons I wont be asking 
Santander to reopen his account.
Im sorry to read that Mr S currently doesnt have a bank account. Santander have said that 
he is welcome to apply for a new current account with them, but they cant guarantee the 
outcome of the application. Im satisfied that this is fair as there are a number of factors 
which would go into approving a current account. Alternatively, Mr S may want to try and 
open an account with a different provider. But for the reasons Ive already given, I dont 
require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman