DRN-3386536
The complaint
Miss Y has complained that Health and Protection Solutions Limited, trading as Towergate 
Health & Protection (Towergate) mis-sold a mortgage protection policy when she already 
had suitable protection in place with her employer.  
What happened
In 2013 Miss Y took out a mortgage. She says the lender told her she needed life cover for 
the mortgage, and as a result she contacted Towergate to discuss the cover. Towergate 
recommended Miss Y take out a decreasing life and critical illness policy for the amount and 
term of her mortgage. 
Miss Y complained to Towergate in 2021 that the policy had been mis-sold.  Miss Y said she 
had in place existing protection with her employer and this wouldve provided enough to 
cover for her mortgage if she died or had a critical illness. Towergate didnt uphold the 
complaint and said the policy they recommended was suitable for the mortgage. Miss Y 
didnt agree and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that Towergate hadnt done anything 
wrong. Miss Y didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint. It has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sure that Miss Y will be disappointed, but my final decision is that Towergate didnt do 
anything wrong. I will now explain why.
After securing a mortgage with her lender Miss Y told us the lender had told her she needed 
to protect her mortgage. However, its accepted the mortgage offer didnt say a policy was 
required as a condition of the mortgage. 
Miss Y then approached Towergate and completed a fact-find. This document confirmed the 
amount and term of the mortgage, and it also confirmed Miss Y was employed in education. 
It also recorded this was a focused review, so its reasonable for me to conclude the only 
advice Miss Y was seeking was to protect her mortgage. After the fact-find had been 
completed, Towergate issued a suitability letter explaining why they thought the policy 
recommended was suitable to protect Miss Ys mortgage.
I understand Miss Y had life cover with her employer and she couldve used this to pay off 
the mortgage in full. And that she had an income protection policy that could provide a 
regular income if she was off work due to long term illness. Miss Y says that Towergate 
didnt check to see what benefits she held with her employer. Ive not seen any existing 
benefits were recorded in the fact-find, or even referred to in the suitability letter Towergate 
sent. But, regardless of this, the policy recommended matched the terms of the mortgage 
Miss Y had taken. I think thats important because death in service benefits from an 
employer, like the ones Ive referred to, will cease following an employment change. So, it's 
normally reasonable to recommend additional cover. Therefore, in this case, even though 
Miss Y had life cover in place with her employer, I dont consider the policy was mis-sold, or 
that it was unsuitable. The recommendation from Towergate would ensure that even if she 
left employment, Miss Ys mortgage would have been paid off in full in the event of her death 
during the full term of the mortgage.
Ive noted Miss Ys comments about the income protection policy she held with her 
employer. However, this policy is designed to provide a regular income if Miss Y is unable to 
work after a period of time. It isnt designed to pay out a lump sum to Miss Y or to pay off the 
mortgage. It may well help Miss Y through a long-term illness, but the policy Towergate 
recommended would pay out a lump sum if Miss Y had a critical illness during the term of 
her mortgage. Miss Y could then choose to pay off the balance or use the funds in any other 
way. So, in this regard I think this is a suitable benefit to be included in the policy. 
In summary, I dont consider the advice provided by Towergate was unreasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. Im persuaded the policy was suitable as it matched the amount 
and term of the mortgage, and it was put in place to protect the mortgage even if Miss Y was 
no longer entitled to her employer benefits.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ys complaint that Health and Protection Solutions Limited, 
trading as Towergate Health & Protection mis-sold her a mortgage protection plan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Paul Lawton1
Ombudsman