DRN-3730014
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with the service she received from Capital One (Europe) plc surrounding 
the defaulting of her account.
What happened
Mrs J was experiencing financial difficulty and was struggling to meet the contractual 
monthly payments on her Capital One credit card account. Mrs J contacted Capital One and 
agreed a temporary payment plan with them. Mrs J made several of the agreed monthly 
payments towards the plan but couldnt pay the agreed amount for one of the months. 
Mrs J then received a letter from Capital One advising they had defaulted her account for 
non-payment. Mrs J contacted Capital One about this and asked them to consider that her 
daughter had been very ill and her husband had required urgent medical support, which had 
contributed to her being unable to make the payment for that month. 
Capital One initially said they would reconsider the default and asked Mrs J to send 
documents confirming her familys medical issues shed described. Mrs J sent the relevant 
documents to Capital One but was then told the default couldnt be removed, regardless of 
her familys circumstances. Mrs J wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Capital One accepted Mrs J shouldnt have been asked to send medical documents or been 
told there was a possibility the default could be removed, and they apologised to Mrs J for 
this and made a payment of £50 to her as compensation for any upset and inconvenience 
this may have caused. But Capital One didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by defaulting Mrs 
Js account, and so they didnt uphold that aspect of her complaint. Mrs J wasnt satisfied 
with Capital Ones response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt Capital Ones response to the 
complaint  including the apology and payment of £50 compensation for Mrs J being given a 
false expectation, and that Capital One felt the default was applied fairly  was already a fair 
outcome to what had happened, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs J remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its easy to sympathise with the difficult personal circumstances that Mrs J 
was experiencing here in regard to both her daughter and her husband, and I can appreciate 
the impact that these matters must have had on Mrs J at that time.
Capital One dont dispute that Mrs J didnt receive the service that she should have done 
here, specifically in regard to her being incorrectly told that the default may be reconsidered 
if she could evidence the medical issues her family members were experiencing. 
However, all credit providers, including Capital One, have an obligation to accurately report 
how credit account holders maintain their accounts to the credit reference agencies. 
This means that the first issue I need to consider here is whether the default that Capital 
One applied to Mrs Js account was applied fairly. And, having reviewed all the information 
and evidence available to me  including the payment history of the account as well as the 
correspondence issued by Capital One and the conversations that took place between Mrs J 
and Capital One  I feel that it was fair that Capital One defaulted the account as they did.
I say this because its evident that Mrs J had been struggling to meet the contractual monthly 
payments required on the account for some time, and that shed arranged a number of prior 
payment plans with Capital One that shed unfortunately been unable to maintain. As such, 
the payment plan Mrs J agreed with Capital One in August 2021 was the latest in a series of 
payment plans that Capital One had agreed, but which Mrs J hadnt been able to maintain. 
Indeed, Capital One had issued a default notice to Mrs J in August 2021 when shed broken 
the previous payment plan, and Mrs J had avoided her account being defaulted at that time 
by contacting Capital One and arranging the most recent payment plan as she did. 
This meant that when Mrs J didnt make one of the payments as scheduled on the most 
recent plan, that Capital One considered that her account should be defaulted and issued a 
default notice to Mrs J accordingly. This seems reasonable to me, given the payment history 
on the account as Ive described, and so I dont feel that Capital One have acted unfairly by 
resuming default proceedings on the account when they did.
Mrs J has explained she didnt receive the default notice that Capital One posted to her in 
November 2021. But Capital One have been able to evidence to my satisfaction that they did 
post the letter to Mrs Js correct address. And while Mrs J may not have received that letter, 
this service wouldnt hold a business accountable for the non-delivery of correctly addressed 
mail, given that the delivery of such mail is undertaken by a postal service over which the 
business has no control.
Additionally, I also feel that it should have been evident to Mrs J, given the history of the 
account including the prior default notice she received, that it was likely that default 
proceedings would resume on her account if a payment on the agreed plan was missed. And 
I feel this way even in consideration of the difficult personal circumstances that Mrs J was 
experiencing at that time. 
Ultimately, looking back from when Capital One first began providing financial assistance to 
Mrs J in March 2020 to when the account was defaulted in December 2021, I feel that 
Capital One did provide a fair and reasonable degree of ongoing financial assistance to Mrs 
J and that because of this the defaulting of the account that eventually took place was fair, 
given the amount of arrears that had accrued on the account up to that point. This means 
that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mrs Js complaint or instructing Capital One to take 
any further action in this regard.
But, as Capital One have acknowledged, one of Capital Ones agents did incorrectly advise 
Mrs J that there was a possibility that the default could be reconsidered if Mrs J could 
evidence the medical issues her family members were facing at that time. And Im satisfied 
that Mrs J was unfairly given a false expectation by this, and that she incurred a degree of 
upset and inconvenience by having to send the medical documents she subsequently did.  
Ive therefore considered whether I feel the £50 compensation that Capital One have already 
paid to Mrs J is a fair amount for the trouble and distress Mrs J may have experienced 
resulting from this point. And having done so, while I acknowledge that matters of compensation can be subjective, I do feel that the £50 that Capital One have already paid 
here is a fair amount.
In arriving at this position Ive considered the impact that Mrs J being given the false hope 
she was may have had on her. Ive also considered the intent of Capital Ones agent, who I 
feel  having listened to the phone call in question  was genuinely sympathetic to Mrs Js 
position and whos mistake was a good faith attempt to help Mrs J. Ive also considered the 
general framework which this service uses when considering compensation amounts for 
upset and inconvenience  details of which can be found on this services website  and 
having done so I can confirm that the £50 already paid by Capital One is commensurate with 
what I may have instructed Capital One to pay, had they not already done so.
I realise this may not be the outcome Mrs J was wanting, but Im satisfied that the response 
Capital One have already issued to her complaint does represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what happened here, and it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Capital One to take any further action. I hope that Mrs J will understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman