DRN-2398773
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited suspended the use of his credit card account.
What happened
On 24 February 2020, Vanquis wrote to Mr I informing him of an overdue payment on his 
account and asking Mr I to contact them. Mr I didnt contact Vanquis, so Vanquis wrote to 
him again on 2 March 2020, and then also on 17 March 2020, with this third letter informing 
Mr I that if he didnt make a payment within 14 days a notice of default would be issued by 
Vanquis.
Mr I did not make any payment, and on 31 March 2020 Vanquis issued a notice of default in 
which they provided a deadline of 19 April 2020 for Mr I to make a full payment or to contact 
Vanquis to arrange a suitable repayment arrangement. This default notice informed Mr I that 
no further use of the credit card account would be permitted, and that if no action was taken 
by Mr I by the required date that a default could be filed with the credit reference agencies.
Mr I received the notice of default and attempted to contact Vanquis but was unable to do so 
before the required date of 19 April 2020. Mr I did contact Vanquis shortly after this date and 
made a payment of £300 toward the balance, and also arranged a repayment plan to clear 
the remaining balance. However, Vanquis advised that they werent willing to reinstate Mr Is 
credit facility and that it would be suspended permanently.
Mr I wasnt happy about this and so he raised a complaint with Vanquis. Mr I believes that 
Vanquis failed to provide a notice of termination before they terminated his credit card 
account and that this is a breach of section 88(4) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr I also 
complained that a default had been registered on his credit file despite Mr I attempting to 
contact Vanquis on numerous occasions but being unable to do so.
Vanquis looked into Mr Is complaint and responded to it in June 2020. They said that they 
had not terminated Mr Is account, but rather had permanently suspended further use of Mr 
Is account, and that this meant a notice of termination was not required. Vanquis also said 
that, while they had reported missed payments to the credit reference agencies as they were 
obliged to, they had not reported that the account was in default. 
Vanquis also felt that they had given Mr I sufficient time to contact them, and while they 
acknowledged that their telephone lines had been operating on reduced hours due to the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19, they still felt that Mr I could have contacted them 
during these reduced hours, or by another method, to make an arrangement. All of which 
meant that Vanquis didnt feel that they had done anything wrong, and so they didnt uphold 
Mr Is complaint.
Mr I wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response and so referred the matter to our service. One of 
our investigators looked at the complaint, but they agreed with Vanquis position and so they 
didnt uphold the complaint either. Mr I remained dissatisfied and so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr I feels strongly that Vanquis should not have suspended the use of his 
credit card account, but as has been explained previously by our investigator, the terms and 
conditions of the account do permit this. The relevant clause of the current terms and 
conditions is as follows:
B11.2 We may also refuse to carry out a transaction or, if it is reasonable, put a 
temporary or permanent stop on you or any additional cardholder using the 
card or its security details:

(c) to reflect or prevent a significant increase in the risk that you may not 
be able to pay us what you owe
Mr I has stated that the current terms and conditions are not those which he agreed to at the 
time he took out the credit card account, and that this means that he is not bound by these 
terms. However, variations to terms and conditions are permitted, provided that sufficient 
notice is given. 
Mr I has stated that he has never received such notice. But Vanquis have confirmed that 
updated terms and conditions were sent to Mr I with his monthly account statement by letter 
in July 2013, June 2014, and March 2015, and by email in May 2018, to the email address 
which our service uses successfully to correspond with Mr I. Additionally, Vanquis note that 
terms and conditions are also included when a new card is sent to a customer, and that 
besides the initial card being issued when the account was opened in April 2012, there have 
been two card reissues to Mr I, in March 2015 and March 2018. 
Vanquis have confirmed that they have no record of returned post corresponding to these 
dates. Given that the majority of post is delivered correctly it seems likely that Mr I was made 
aware of changes to the terms and conditions of the account. So, Im satisfied that Vanquis 
acted appropriately when deciding to permanently suspend further use of Mr Is account. Im 
also satisfied that because the account was permanently suspended, and not terminated, 
the requirements of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to which Mr I refers dont apply.
Mr I has also stated that he didnt receive the letters sent to his address by Vanquis on 24 
February 2020, 2 March 2020, and 17 March 2020, which informed Mr I that payment was 
overdue on the account. Mr I contends that he only received the notice of default letter dated 
31 March 2020. However, Vanquis have again confirmed that no undelivered post was 
returned to them around these dates, and as explained above, given that the majority of post 
is delivered correctly, on the balance of probability, it seems more likely than not that these 
letters were delivered to Mr Is address.
It must be noted that, even if the letters referred to above were not delivered to Mr Is 
address, the notice of default dated 31 March provided Mr I with a reasonable amount of 
time to contact Vanquis and make an appropriate arrangement. This letter also provided 
notice to Mr I that no further use of the account would be permitted at that time. 
Mr I has stated that tried to call Vanquis on several occasions but was unable to get through. 
However, Vanquis have explained that they only have record of two inbound calls from Mr I - 
one on 6 April 2020, which was terminated by the caller while the caller was in the automated menu and before the call was connected with a Vanquis agent; and another on 
18 April 2020 at a time when the telephone lines were closed. 
Vanquis note that when at times when their telephone lines were closed, customers would 
hear an automated message which gave a number to contact Vanquis by SMS text 
message. Mr I has stated that he sent such a text message to Vanquis, but this doesnt 
appear to have been sent to the number provided by Vanquis in their automated message, 
and Vanquis have no record of the messages receipt.
Mr I has explained that he wasnt able to spend time attempting to contact Vanquis during 
this time because family circumstances meant that his priorities were elsewhere. In 
particular, Mr Is wife was admitted to hospital, which I can understand would have been 
stressful for Mr I of itself, but which in this case also meant that Mr I had to look after his 
young child and maintain his business without his wifes support during this time.
I hope that Mr Is family is now well and I can sympathise with Mr Is position here. Our 
service would certainly expect that a business treat Mr I with a degree of sensitivity under 
circumstances like these. But I think thats what Vanquis have done here. For instance, they 
didnt record a default against Mr Is credit file and they agreed to a repayment plan to 
enable Mr I to repay the money owed over a manageable period of time. 
I understand that Mr I believes that the difficult position he found himself in meant that 
Vanquis should not have permanently suspended his credit facility, but this was a 
commercial decision made by Vanquis based on non-payments that took place before Mr Is 
wife was admitted to hospital, and Im not persuaded that Vanquis acted improperly in 
permanently suspending the credit card account as they did. Indeed, considering the 
possible alternative and Mr Is circumstances at that time, it could be argued that it would 
have been irresponsible of Vanquis to allow Mr Is level of debt to potentially increase, had 
they allowed use of the credit facility to continue.
It follows then that I cant uphold this complaint. I understand that this wont be the response 
that Mr I was hoping for, but Im satisfied that the process that Vanquis have followed which 
culminated in the commercial decision to permanently suspend Mr Is credit card account, 
and also how Vanquis have handled matters with Mr I following the permanent suspension, 
were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman