DRN-3903262
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) avoided his 
buildings insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr A took out a buildings insurance policy with RSA. Mr As property was damaged by a fire, 
so he contacted RSA to make a claim. RSA said Mr A had answered the question it asked 
about who lived at the property incorrectly when he took out the policy. It said it considered 
this to be deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy and 
decline the claim.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. He said RSA hadnt 
shown the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. So, he said it should be treated as 
careless misrepresentation. He said RSA should reinstate the policy, remove any record of 
the policy voidance from databases, proportionately settle the claim and pay Mr A £400 
compensation.
RSA didnt agree that it could be regarded as careless misrepresentation, so the complaint 
was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 14 December 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
RSA thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated that only he lived at the property, as tenants also lived there.
Ive looked at the information Mr A provided about who lived at the property and the 
assumptions he was asked to confirm. Ive also seen the findings from RSAs investigation. 
The policy documents showed Mr A had been asked to confirm Everyone that resides at 
your home is a family member and that Mr A had said one adult lived at the property. RSAs 
claim investigation found evidence that the property seemed to be multi-occupancy and that 
several people had lived at the property over a period of a few years. 
I think the information Mr A needed to confirm was clear. Mr A said he was the only person 
living at the property. Based on all the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely there were 
tenants, or other people who werent family members, who lived at the property over a 
number of years. Mr A has also said a tenant had recently moved into the property. I think 
this means Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said who lived at the property.
So, I need to consider whether Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one. In other 
words, look at whether it made a difference. RSA has told this service If the property was 
tenanted but had 6 people or less in it, we would have quoted so long as the [policyholder] 
was resident for a web quote. We would have offered full cover. RSA confirmed it hadnt 
tried to argue there were more than six people at the property. It also provided information to 
this service that said: due to the minimal difference in premiums and no terms applying, 
we had no underwriting concerns for this. 
When RSA wrote to Mr A to say he had made a misrepresentation it said it wouldnt have 
offered him the policy. As this was different to the information RSA provided to this service, 
which was that it would have provided full cover, I asked RSA to clarify this. I also asked 
RSA to provide the underwriting details showing what difference it would have made to the 
terms it would have been willing to offer Mr A. When RSA replied, it didnt respond to either 
of these issues and instead focussed on why it thought Mr A had made a deliberate 
misrepresentation and what action it thought it could therefore take.
Based on what Ive seen, despite what it told Mr A, its my understanding that RSA would 
have offered Mr A a policy. RSA hasnt provided evidence to show how this would have 
affected the terms on which it offered the policy, if at all. So, I dont think RSA has provided 
sufficient information to show it would have made a difference if it had known there were 
tenants at the property. 
This means Im not currently satisfied that Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one. It 
also means there is no action than can be taken under CIDRA, such as voiding the policy. 
Although RSA has said it thinks the misrepresentation was deliberate, I dont need to 
consider this, as the type of misrepresentation isnt relevant when it isnt a qualifying one.
As a result, I currently intend to uphold this complaint and to require RSA to reinstate the 
policy, remove any record of the voidance from internal and external databases and 
reconsider the claim based on the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive also thought about compensation. Its my understanding that Mr As property was 
significantly damaged by the fire and that he had to move in with his parents. He has also 
said the way the claim was dealt with has impacted his mental health. Although I think Mr A 
was likely to have been caused distress and inconvenience by the fire itself, I think the way 
the claim has been handled caused additional stress and upset to Mr A. As a result, I 
currently intend to say RSA should pay Mr A £100 compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 11 January 2023.
Mr A said he had paid for work to repair the property as RSA hadnt dealt with the claim. Mr 
A queried whether RSA reinstating the policy meant he could claim through them for the 
damage. He said £100 wasnt enough compensation.RSA acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and the date it needed to respond by. 
It said it would consider if it wanted to provide any comments. The deadline passed and RSA 
didnt provide anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Mr A has queried what RSA is required to do. RSA needs to reinstate 
the policy and assess the claim. As Mr A has already had work carried out, he can provide 
the details of that work, and the costs, to RSA so it can consider them and whether it should 
pay for that work or any other damage. Given what happened with the claim, I dont think I 
can fairly say what should or shouldnt be covered as part of the claim. If Mr A isnt satisfied 
with how RSA assesses the claim or any settlement offered, he can raise that as a new 
complaint with RSA. The £100 compensation wasnt to cover the costs Mr A paid towards 
repairing the damage, it was because of the distress and inconvenience caused by issues 
with the claim. I remain of the view that £100 compensation is appropriate.
Putting things right
RSA should reinstate the policy, remove any record of the voidance from internal and 
external databases and reconsider the claim based on the terms and conditions of the 
policy. It should also pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Reinstate the policy.
Remove any reference to the voidance from internal and external databases.
Reconsider the claim based on the terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman