DRN-1615508
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account called a Gold account. She paid a monthly fee for the account and received several 
potential benefits in return. She thinks that Lloyds should refund her all the fees she paid, 
plus interest. 
What happened
Miss C has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Both parties have agreed that during 
the 1980s she opened one of Lloyds fee-free accounts and that by 2001 Lloyds had sold her 
the Gold account, which replaced the fee-free account; although neither party is sure about 
exactly when the sale took place.
Miss C and Lloyds have also agreed that Lloyds advised her to buy the Gold account and 
that she kept it until 2019, when she went back to a fee-free accounts. Miss C has told us 
that Lloyds sold her the Gold account when she visited one of its branches. Lloyds doesnt 
have any records about this, but I have no reason to doubt Miss Cs recollections on this 
point. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Cs complaint and didnt recommend 
that Lloyds should give her any money back. Miss C didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
So, I have considered this complaint on the basis that before or during 2001, Lloyds advised 
Miss C to switch from a fee-free account to a (paid for) Gold account during a meeting or 
discussion at one of its branches.
(During the time that Miss C held the Gold account, Lloyds changed its formal name on 
several occasions. For example, at different times, it may have referred to the account as a 
Gold Service account or a Gold Vantage Added Value account. However, for simplicity, I 
have used the single term Gold throughout this decision). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Miss C and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As Lloyds advised Miss C to buy the Gold account, I would have expected it to check that 
the account was a reasonable match for her needs and financial situation, tell her about its 
benefits and cost clearly and fairly and give her a choice about buying it. 
Neither party has sent us any detailed notes of what happened during the meeting, which is 
not surprising after such a long time has passed, so I cant tell for sure what Lloyds did or 
didnt say to Miss C. So, to see if Lloyds advice was reasonable, Ive looked at the potential 
benefits of the account and compared them with what I know about Miss Cs circumstances 
at the time.
Lloyds first introduced the Gold account around 1996. Between then and 2001, it changed 
the potential benefits of the account from time-to-time, but they usually included travel 
insurance as the main non-banking features, plus interest-free overdrafts of up to £100, 
along with extended warranties on some electrical goods bought with a Lloyds bank card. 
In correspondence with us, of the various benefits the Gold account provided, Miss C has 
raised most concerns about the travel insurance. She has told us that during most of her 
holidays she took part in an activity which she considers to be classed as a dangerous 
sport which she thinks would not be covered by the basic travel insurance. To support her 
case, she has quoted from an advice website and has said that she needed specialist 
cover and so paid a fee to join a charity which supports her sport and provides such 
specialist insurance to its members. She therefore thinks that Lloyds was wrong to 
recommend the Gold account to her as the travel insurance did not meet all her needs. 
As I do not know exactly when Lloyds sold the account to Miss C, I cant be sure about the 
exact details of the policy which applied at the time. However, I have looked at some the 
guidance documents which Lloyds sent to its customers between 1997 and 2001 and while 
these documents show that policy probably excluded winter sports, Miss Cs sport did not fall 
into this category. It also seems that extra cover was available to cover particular sports if 
needed.
In fairness to Miss C, I acknowledge that the website she has quoted from says that some 
policies exclude her sport, but it does not say they all do; and, of course, it is policy itself that 
is the definitive statement, not general information on a website. So, although I cant be 
certain that the policy covered Miss C for claims arising from her sport, I think its quite 
possible that it may have done. However, even if it didnt, it doesnt automatically follow that 
Lloyds mis-sold the account, and its travel insurance, to Miss C.
The paperwork I have seen about the polices shows that they covered hazards such as lost 
luggage, medical expenses, and cancellation of accommodation or transport. I think these 
benefits may have been useful to Miss C irrespective of her sport. Indeed, I understand that 
a few years ago she enquired about claiming for lost luggage, although I dont know the 
outcome of that enquiry. And as Miss C took out extra insurance for her sport, it seems to 
me that Lloyds probably told her that some sports may have been excluded, (and hence may 
have needed extra cover) even if I cannot find the full details after around twenty years have 
passed. 
So, despite Miss Cs participation in her sport when on holiday, I think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to recommend the Gold account to her. I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told 
Miss C about the other potential benefits of the Gold account. After all, it was trying to sell 
the account to her, and it was in its own interests to tell her what she could gain by buying it.
Miss C has accepted that Lloyds told her about the fees for the Gold account during the 
meeting but has said it treated her unfairly in the overall way it talked about the account. 
Shes said that at the time she had just received a pay rise and that Lloyds led her to believe 
that the Gold account was something she could only have due to her long-term loyalty to the 
bank and her pay increase; and that it was a prestige product for her. Shes said that 
Lloyds advised her, cajoled her and persuaded her to buy the Gold account.Obviously, I cant tell exactly what Lloyds said to Miss C during the meeting, and I certainly 
accept that it may well have talked positively about the Gold account. But I havent seen 
sufficiently strong evidence to make me think that it applied undue pressure to Miss C or 
denied her the choice to decline the Gold account and keep her fee-free account.
Miss C has also complained that after Lloyds sold her the Gold account, it made it easy for 
her to take a more expensive accounts, but not to switch back to a fee-free one. Shes 
specifically cited Lloyds website which she says gives much more prominence to upgrade 
buttons than to downgrade buttons. She has said that this stopped her from switching 
back to a fee-free account as early as she would have liked. 
I will not comment on the exact screens Miss C saw online, particularly as some of them 
may have changed over years. But I do not think Lloyds did anything to deny her the 
opportunity to go back to a fee-free account. She has accepted that Lloyds told her the Gold 
account was optional and has commented that the heart of her complaint is not based on 
whether (she) knew (she) had a choice but on how she feels that her discussion with Lloyds 
led her to buy an account which was inappropriate for her. Shes added that she would not 
make the same decision now. 
I have already commented on Lloyds discussion with Miss C, and I fully accept that she may 
now think she shouldnt have bought the Gold account. But as she knew it was optional, and 
Lloyds continued to provide fee-free accounts to customers who wanted them, I dont think it 
did anything to prevent her from going back to a fee-free account. 
So, in summary, while I accept that Lloyds may not have got everything right for Miss C, and 
I am not certain if the travel insurance would have covered her for claims arising directly 
from taking part in her sport, I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Gold account to her. Nor 
do I think that it stopped her from going back to a fee-free account.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman