DRN-3799554
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G)
has rejected her claim for the cost of veterinary treatment for her pet dog.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case. C&G responded to this and Ill refer 
to their response below.
What happened
Mrs P has had her dog, who Ill refer to as L, since 2010. Between 2010 and August 2021,
Ls veterinary history shows that she was seen by her vet on a number of occasions
following incidents of diarrhoea and vomiting. The vets notes for a visit on 21 June 2010,
when she was brought in as a puppy because of diarrhoea, say suspect colitis sgns. There
were some large gaps of two, three and four years between some of these visits and no
further mention of colitis.
On 1 August 2021, Mrs P took out a new insurance policy for L with C&G. Subsequent to
that, on 17 February 2022, L was taken to the vet again as she was a little bloated with
some stomach distension. Mrs P was particularly concerned about the possibility of L 
having bloat (gastric dilation-volvulus) as this is very serious and has the potential to be fatal 
if not addressed rapidly.
C&G rejected Mrs Ps claim. It said that at the time of taking out the policy for L, Mrs P
wouldve been advised of the importance of detailing all Ls veterinary history, and she
hadnt disclosed Ls pre-existing condition of abdomen pain. It said that if Mrs P had 
disclosed Ls clinical signs and symptoms, it wouldve imposed the following exclusion on 
her policy from its inception:
Excludes all cover with respect to the digestive system and resulting conditions with
effect from the 1st August 2021.
Mrs P says she never sought to hide Ls health, which was generally good and excellent for
her age, and her previous insurer had not imposed any exclusions on cover.
Mrs P bought her C&G policy online through a price comparison website. C&G has provided
screenshots of the questions Mrs P was asked as part of her purchase journey. One of these
was:
Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
Mrs P wouldve been required to answer either Yes or No. If Mrs P were to have selected
Yes, she wouldve been advised that C&G was unable to provide Mrs P with a quote and
that she should contact it for more information. If Mrs P had answered No, she was able to
complete her purchase journey.
To complete the purchase process, Mrs P wouldve been required to confirm her
understanding and acceptance of the policys assumptions and terms.
The Assumptions section of Mrs Ps policy states that:
You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing
or if it were to arise within the first 14 days from the policy start date or 5 days in the
event of an accident.
The terms state that pre-existing conditions are not covered, and that C&G reserved the right
to place any relevant exclusions if it was made aware of a pre-existing condition. The policy
states:
General Exclusions
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for
any of the following reasons;
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
C&G says that as Ls veterinary records show that she suffered from numerous digestive
Concerns prior to the policy's inception, Mrs P had made a qualifying misrepresentation and
this entitled it to place an exclusion on any claims relating to Ls digestive system. It says
that as Mrs Ps claim fell under this exclusion her claim was correctly declined.
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that Mrs P wasnt
asked a clear enough question about any previous illnesses or injurys L had. She wasnt
satisfied that C&G should have retrospectively altered the terms of Mrs Ps policy by adding
the exclusion. Her view was that this should be removed, and that Mrs Ps claim should be
assessed subject to the other terms of the policy. It should also pay her compensation of
£100 for the upset caused.
C&G didnt agree with our investigators view and asked that the complaint be considered by 
an ombudsman. It was referred to me to make a final decision from this service. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Mrs Ps complaint but asking C&G to provide further support 
for its rejection of her claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why. 
I consider that this complaint raises two questions.
Firstly, is it reasonable for C&G to decline Mrs Ps claim on the ground of misrepresentation?
My view is that it is not. For there to be a misrepresentation, Mrs P would need to have
provided incorrect information to C&G, either carelessly, deliberately or recklessly, and I 
dont consider that she did so. She wasnt asked any questions about Ls previous veterinary
history. She was only asked if she was looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing 
condition.
There is no right or wrong answer to that question. Mrs P answered No as she was able to
compete her purchase journey. Had she answered Yes, then she wouldve had to havegiven accurate answers to any subsequent questions C&G asked about Ls veterinary 
history in order for it to decide whether to insure L or if any exclusions should be added to 
the policy. I therefore conclude that there was no misrepresentation by Mrs P as to Ls 
previous medical history and it is unreasonable of C&G to have imposed an exclusion on 
Mrs Ps policy on this ground.
That leads to the second question  was it reasonable for C&G to have added the exclusion
for any other reason?
C&G has said that as part of her policy purchase journey, Mrs P wouldve been taken to the
C&G website where she wouldve been required to confirm her understanding and
acceptance of the policys assumptions and terms. These included the assumption that no
cover will be provided for any illness or any injury that is pre-existing or has displayed
symptoms (changes in my pets normal healthy state, condition, appearance, bodily
functions or behaviour)...
The policy terms (quoted above) also give C&G the right to add an exclusion if it becomes
aware of any pre-existing condition.
Pre-existing condition is defined as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
An Associated Condition is defined as:
a Condition that is either a recurring Illness and/or Accidental Injury or Lump; or
related to a previous Illness and/or Accidental Injury or Lump; or caused by a previous
Illness and/or Accidental Injury or Lump. When applying the Benefit Limit and the 
terms of this Policy, any Treatment for an Associated Condition will be considered as 
one Condition, regardless of when the Treatment occurred.
C&G has stated that L suffered from numerous digestive concerns prior to the policys
inception. What Ls medical records actually refer to are a number of incidents of diarrhoea 
and vomiting over an 11-year period. 
In my provisional decision I said that what C&G had failed to do in my view was to provide 
sufficient grounds for its conclusion that there was a connection between these and the 
bloating condition for which L was assessed in 2022. I said that these were matters upon 
which veterinary evidence should be provided as I didnt consider it fair for C&G to make its 
own assessment of such a connection.
By issuing a provisional decision I gave both C&G and Mrs P the opportunity to provide 
whatever further evidence they were able to provide as to:
(i) the connection, or lack of connection, between the condition with which L
presented in February 2022 and any conditions with which she presented
between 2010 until 1 August 2021; and
(ii) the connection between the current endorsement on the policy and any
conditions with which L presented between 2010 until 1 August 2021.
I said that in the absence of persuasive evidence of a connection, I was proposing to uphold 
Mrs Ps complaint.In response to my provisional decision, C&G has largely repeated information originally 
contained in its decline letter to Mrs P. It hasnt provided any additional evidence to support 
its contention that the condition for which Mrs P is claiming is a condition, or is associated 
with a condition, that L had prior to the inception of the policy. It hasnt said what that 
condition is. 
In order to decline Mrs Ps claim, it is incumbent on C&G to provide persuasive evidence that 
the condition claimed for is a pre-existing condition. There are two reasons for this. Firstly, 
Mrs P answered No to the question Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing 
condition? Secondly, pre-existing conditions are expressly excluded under the terms of the 
policy and C&G could add a specific endorsement to Mrs Ps cover.
But in my view C&G hasnt provided any evidence that the bloating with which L presented in 
February 2022 is connected with the diarrhoea and vomiting that L displayed on a number of 
occasions over an 11-year period, which C&G has described as digestive concerns. 
My conclusion is therefore that C&G has acted unfairly in rejecting Mrs Ps claim on the 
ground relied upon and it should remove the endorsement and reconsider her claim subject 
to the other terms and conditions of her policy.
I also agree with our investigator that Mrs P has suffered considerable stress and upset by 
the rejection of her claim given her personal circumstances for which I consider that £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
Lastly, I should mention that in its response to my provisional decision C&G also referred to 
Mrs P having provided an incorrect date of birth for L. If C&G believes this is a qualifying 
misrepresentation, it has its remedy under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to remove the 
endorsement from Mrs Ps policy and to settle her claim subject to the other terms and 
conditions of her policy and to pay interest on any amount paid to her at the simple rate of 
8% from the date her claim was made until payment.
I also require it to pay Mrs P compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman