DRN-2253210
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that ReAssure Limited didnt carry out reviews of their whole of life 
policy when they should have. They are unhappy that ReAssure wont agree to reimburse 
the policy premiums they paid after a review should have taken place.
What happened
In 1986, Mr and Mrs A took out a joint whole of life policy with a sum assured of £52,000.
 
The policy was reviewable, with the first review to take place 10 years after the policy was 
taken out. Subsequent reviews were to take place every 5 years until age 70, when they 
would become annual. The purpose of each review was to test if the policy was still able to 
continue providing the chosen level of cover. If it wasnt, Mr and Mrs A should have been 
given options to increase their premiums or reduce their level of benefit.
In early 2019, Mr and Mrs A contacted ReAssure after receiving an annual statement. The 
statement showed the surrender value of the policy as -£1,042.97. ReAssure said the policy 
had last been reviewed in 2005. But it should have been reviewed again in 2006 to bring it 
back in line with the correct review periods. This didnt happen and subsequent reviews for 
2011 and 2016 were also missed. 
ReAssure said it had completed a review backdated to February 2006. To maintain the sum 
assured of £52,000 the premium would have had to increase from £94.22 to £156.11. 
Leaving the premium unchanged would have reduced the benefits from £52,000 to 
£30,651.60.
ReAssure gave Mr and Mrs A three options:
1. Backdate the increased premiums to February 2006 to maintain the sum assured at 
£52,000. A total shortfall of £9,778.62 would be required to cover the increase in 
premium from February 2006 to March 2019. Future premium collections would be at 
the increased amount of £156.11. As a gesture of goodwill, ReAssure would cover 
half of the cost of the shortfall, leaving Mr and Mrs A to pay £4,889.31.
2. Increase the premium from 10 April 2019 to £156.11. This would ensure the sum of 
assured of £52,000 remained in place until the next review due in February 2021. 
The policy would still hold its debt fund and this would be taken into consideration 
when the next review was completed.
3. Leave the premium unchanged and reduce the benefits to £30,651.60. The policy 
would still hold its debt fund and this would be taken into consideration when the next 
review was completed.
Mr and Mrs A didnt think any of the options put them in the position they would have been if 
ReAssure had carried out the review in 2006. They told ReAssure they would have 
cancelled their policy in 2006, if it had told them they would need to significantly increase 
their premiums or significantly reduce their level of cover.
They believed they were entitled to be put in the position of having surrendered their policy 
as at February 2006 and be reimbursed the total amount of premiums paid since then.
ReAssure said it would look to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs A had paid, but it also 
believed it was suitable to deduct the cost of providing the death benefit on their policy. The 
cost of providing the death benefit was higher than the premiums paid since February 2006. 
Mr and Mrs A had benefitted from the cover and had chosen to continue to pay the 
premiums, showing they had a need for the cover provided. It said it was willing to pay back 
the surrender value from 10 February 2006 (of £383.22) plus any interest due. But it wasnt 
willing to refund their premiums. It paid Mr and Mrs A £300 compensation for inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy, so they brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into their concerns and thought their complaint should be upheld. Given 
Mr and Mrs As circumstances at the time, he was persuaded they would have surrendered 
the policy in February 2006, if the review had taken place. He thought it would be fair for 
ReAssure to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs A had paid since then in addition to paying 
them the surrender value of the policy at that time. He recommended ReAssure also pay 
them compensatory interest at 8% simple per annum.
ReAssure disagreed with our investigators view. It said Mr and Mrs A had benefitted from 
the full sum assured at a reduced cost. Had a claim been made it would have paid the full 
sum assured. It also questioned if the complaint had been brought within the time limits 
which allow our service to look at it.
Our investigator gave his view explaining why he believed our service was able to consider 
Mr and Mrs As complaint. ReAssure accepted this but said it still disagreed with his view on 
how the complaint should be resolved. So, Mr and Mrs As complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision on the merits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator, Ill explain 
why. 
ReAssure has acknowledged that the reviews didnt take place when they should have done. 
But it hasnt accepted our investigators recommendation on what it needs to do to put things 
right.
ReAssure is willing to pay Mr and Mrs A the surrender value of the policy as at February 
2006, along with interest. But it hasnt agreed to reimburse Mr and Mrs A for the premiums 
they paid from February 2006 onwards. 
ReAssure says that from 2006, Mr and Mrs A benefitted from the full sum assured at a 
reduced cost. If a claim had been made it would have paid the full sum assured of £52,000. 
Ive no reason to doubt that this would have been the case. And I acknowledge that Mr and 
Mrs A did receive the benefit of having life cover, even though, fortunately, they didnt need 
to make a claim.
But the reviews didnt take place as they should have done, and it was ReAssures 
responsibility to ensure that they did. And I dont think Mr and Mrs A should be 
disadvantaged because ReAssure didnt do what it was supposed to do. So, Ive thought 
about what would likely have happened if the policy had been reviewed in February 2006.Mr A says he was made redundant in late 2005, so he was looking to reduce his outgoings. 
If ReAssure had carried out the review in early 2006, he wouldnt have chosen to pay higher 
premiums. He says he also wouldnt have accepted a reduction in the sum assured, 
because hed have thought the policy no longer provided value for money. 
From what ReAssure has said, if the review had taken place in 2006, Mr and Mrs A would 
have been given the options of their premiums increasing by around 66% or a reduction in 
the sum assured of around 41%. These are quite significant changes and Im persuaded by 
Mr and Mrs As testimony that they would have thought the policy no longer provided value 
for money. 
On balance, I think Mr and Mrs A would most likely have surrendered the policy if the review 
had taken place in February 2006. If they had done so, they would have received the 
surrender value of £383.22. They also wouldnt have paid any further premiums. So, I think it 
would be fair for ReAssure to reimburse them the premiums they paid from the date the 
review should have taken place, in addition to paying them the surrender value of the policy 
at that time. Reassure should also pay statutory interest to compensate them for being 
deprived of the money.
Putting things right
ReAssure should:
Pay Mr and Mrs A £383.22 (plus 8% per year simple interest from the date it should 
have been paid 2006 until the date its paid)*.
Refund any premiums Mr and Mrs A paid from the date the review should have taken 
place in 2006 (plus 8% per year simple interest from the date the premiums were 
paid until l the date they are refunded)*.
*If ReAssure considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the interest it should 
let Mr and Mrs A know how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs A a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customers if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and direct ReAssure 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman