DRN-4408660
The complaint
Mr G and Miss P complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
has poorly handled a claim made under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
Any reference to Mr G, Miss P, or DAS includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
In December 2022, Mr G and Miss P contacted DAS seeking to make a claim under 
their LEI policy related to the repossession of a property. In doing so, they provided 
supporting evidence related to the claim. DAS has acknowledged it received this.
In May 2023, Mr G and Miss P requested an updated on the claim. At this time, it 
became apparent the possession notice Mr G and Miss P had obtained previously 
had since expired in February 2023  and the claim had not been progressed by 
DAS. 
DAS said it made a mistake at this time and had closed the claim incorrectly in 
January 2023. Mr G and Miss P say this caused them to lose rental income.
In May 2023, DAS requested information including questions about whether the 
tenant was still in the property and details of any current rent arrears. DAS said it 
hasnt received an answer to these questions.
The complaint came to this Service around this time and one of our Investigators 
looked into what happened. She said DAS would need to:
oPay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G 
and Miss P due to delays and failures of communication on DAS part.
oPay the costs of obtaining another possession order should this be required.
oTake the claim forward in line with the remaining policy terms  which 
required Mr G and Miss P to provide further information that had been 
requested in May 2023.
oDAS would need to pay for the loss of rental income for the period between 
when the claim was closed in error in January 2023 and May 2023 when 
further information was requested. For any losses after this time  these 
would be considered against the remaining policy terms. 
DAS agreed to the view. Mr G and Miss P initially accepted it but then said they felt 
the compensation awarded wasnt sufficient. This was due to the amount of time 
spent and letters and phone calls made to take the matter forward. And they said the 
rent should be paid until the tenant left the property.
DAS has since been in touch to ask for an extension to provide further thoughts on 
the claim itself. But our Investigator has explained this complaint is focused on the 
events brought to us previously, not live issues related to a claim going forward.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
DAS has acknowledged that it incorrectly closed Mr G and Miss Ps claim in January 
2023. So, its clear to me DAS was responsible for this claim not progressing in a 
timely manner as it should have done.
I have to consider whether the remedy DAS has agreed to carry out, alongside the 
compensation awarded is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Mr G and Miss P have said DAS handling of the claim caused them to lose rental 
income across this time. And DAS has agreed to cover these costs until May 2023  
when DAS recognised its mistake and asked specific questions of Mr G and Miss P 
to take the matter forward. I think this is a reasonable period for DAS to pay (outside 
of the policy terms) given the claim could continue from that point onwards. 
DAS will be aware of our approach to situations where a policyholder is out of pocket, 
so in line with this I will direct it to pay 8% simple interest from the date each payment 
wouldve been made, until the date it makes payment, to account for the period Mr G 
and Miss P have been without these funds.
For the period that followed, DAS has agreed to consider this in line with its 
remaining policy terms. As DAS was seeking to take the claim forward at this time, I 
think this is reasonable on its part.
Mr G and Miss P described incurring costs in relation to an initial possession order. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and cant see this was a cost DAS wouldve covered 
as it wasnt a legal cost in line with the relevant definitions. So, it seems this wouldve 
always been a cost Mr G and Miss P would have incurred themselves. DAS has 
agreed to cover the costs of obtaining another one should this be necessary in taking 
the claim forward. And I think this puts right the situation DAS has created by the first 
expiring.
Mr G and Miss P have explained the extent of the frustration caused by DAS actions 
and the time theyve spent pursuing the claim. I dont doubt this has been a 
frustrating experience for them and discovering the claim had not progressed 
wouldve been very disappointing. Having thought about the matter carefully, Im 
satisfied a sum of £350 compensates them for the distress and inconvenience 
theyve suffered as a result of DAS actions. So, while I acknowledge their strength of 
feeling, this isnt something Im going to increase.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I am upholding this complaint. DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited must:
Pay any rental income losses between the date the claim was cancelled in January 
2023 and taken forward again in 19 of May 2023. 
8% simple interest should be added to each rental payment it is covering, from the 
date each payment wouldve been made, until the date of payment, to account for the 
period Mr G and Miss P have been without these funds.Cover the cost of obtaining a possession order or notice should one be required 
going forward to evict the tenant in question.
Pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused Mr G and 
Miss P in handling this claim.
DAS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G and 
Miss P accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman