DRN-3436049
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). He says it 
didnt provide him with correct information which resulted in him feeling he had no choice but 
to voluntary terminate his agreement.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W contacted VWFS in March 2020 to ask about a payment deferral. VWFS said 
at that time this wasnt an option but said some breathing space could be provided. 
As the guidance regarding payment deferrals hadnt been introduced at that time I 
think this was reasonable and I note that Mr W said he would call back nearer his 
April payment to see what options were available.
Mr W applied for payment deferral at end April 2020. VWFS system notes record 
that Mr Ws account was set to suspended to prevent any billing while the request 
was assessed. The guidance introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority on 27 
April 2020 said: Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to 
experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to 
coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the 
customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting 
reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. Mr Ws 
payment deferral was confirmed in June 2020 and he was provided with a three 
month payment deferral for the months of May, June, and July 2020. I find this was in 
line with the guidance and provided Mr W with a reasonable level of assistance.
Mr W says he applied for a six month payment deferral and I can see there is a 
reference to a six month deferral on the system notes. However, Mr W has also 
noted the form said three months and I can see the payment deferral was assessed 
and agreed for three months. This was in line with the guidance and VWFS system 
notes show Mr W was sent a reminder in July that his payment deferral was coming 
to an end and payments would resume. So, while I appreciate that Mr W wanted to 
have the payment deferral for six months I think he should have been reasonably 
aware that this was put in place for three months. 
Mr Ws payments for August, September and October were returned unpaid. An 
arrears letter was sent in September 2020 and a default notice in October 2020. 
Given the missed payments and that there had been no further contact from Mr W at 
this point I do not find these actions unreasonable and they informed Mr W of the 
status of his account. 
Mr W contacted VWFS on 26 October 2020 (after the default and arrears letter). I 
havent received a copy of this call, but the notes show that he was told incorrectly to 
disregard the arrears letters and that his payments were due to start on 13 November 
2020. Given Mr W had wanted a six month payment deferral and noting the 
information he was given suggested he had been given a six month deferral, I do not 
think it unreasonable that he didnt think he needed to take any action at this time.
Mr Ws November and December 2020 payments were returned unpaid. As Mr W 
had been told the payments were due to restart in November I find that Mr W was 
aware of the need to make these payments and should have realised not making 
these would result in further arrears.
Mr W says that he contacted VWFS in September to try to put in place another 
payment deferral. Looking at the system notes, this contact was made at end 
December. At this time, he submitted a financial difficulties form and requested 
another payment deferral. The initial guidance from April 2020 was updated in July 
2020 and this extended the guidance on payment deferrals from three months to six 
months. As Mr W had only been provided with a three month payment deferral a 
further three month payment deferral could have been a reasonable option at this 
time. Mr Ws request was responded to saying that Mr W could apply for the deferral 
online or that if he didnt meet the criteria other options could be available. I think that 
VWFS response was reasonable and in line with the guidance in place at that time.  
Mr W contacted VWFS in February 2021 after his January and February payments 
had been returned unpaid. I have listened to the calls from this day and I note he 
says he thought a further payment deferral was in place. This was based on his 
request at the end 2020. Unfortunately, he was wrongly told his agreement was in a 
payment deferral, but this information was corrected when Mr W was transferred to 
the collections team. At this point he was told the amount of the arrears, the situation 
regarding his payment deferrals and the options available to him. 
I can appreciate how upsetting Mr W must have found the calls in February 2021 as 
it is clear he hasnt understood fully the situation on his account and the extent to 
which payment deferrals had been applied. However, while I sympathise with Mr Ws 
situation, in this case I think that VWFS did provide enough information to say the 
initial payment deferral was for three months and while incorrect information was 
given in October this was after payments had been missed and so I cannot say that 
this was the cause of the missed payments. He was then told payments would 
resume and he didnt then make contact until end December after a further two 
payments had been missed. I appreciate he thought he had done enough to set up 
the payment deferral but the information provided in response to his request was 
clear what he needed to do to make the payment deferral request and so I do not find 
VWFS did anything wrong at that point by not putting this in place. I appreciate that 
Mr W was then provided with incorrect information on the call in February, but this 
was corrected after he was transferred to another department. At this time, he was 
concerned about not being able to afford the payments and so I think it reasonable all 
options were provided to him including ending the agreement. 
Mr W decided to voluntary terminate his agreement and he had been provided with 
the information about the amounts he would be liable for. The car was collected, and 
end of contract charges applied which havent been disputed as part of this 
complaint. Therefore, I find Mr W was provided with the information he needed to 
make an informed decision.VWFS accepted that it didnt provide the service it should have by telling Mr W he 
was on a payment deferral when he wasnt. Having considered the timeline, I do not 
think this was the cause of the payments not being made as at the time they were 
due I think Mr W had been provided with the correct information about his payments. 
That said it did cause his upset and raised confusion. Having considered this, I think 
VWFS offer to remove five months of payments from Mr Ws arrears is reasonable.
In conclusion, while I appreciate Mr W was given incorrect advice, I think VWFS has done 
enough to address this. Mr W was provided with a three month payment deferral and the 
opportunity to apply for a further payment deferral which was in line with the guidance. He 
wasnt maintaining his payments and was given the options available. He was told the costs 
involved in the voluntary termination and it was his choice to take this option. Therefore, I do 
not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman