DRN-2371267
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund disputed cash 
withdrawals made from her account. 
What happened
Mrs O has a current account with Halifax. 
On the 31 July 2018 she contacted Halifax to dispute seven cash withdrawals which 
occurred on her Halifax account from the 2 July 2018 onwards. In total Mrs O disputes 
withdrawals totalling £2,700. 
Mrs O explains that on contacting Halifax she still had her debit card in her possession, 
hasnt lost it at any point and hasnt written her PIN down or shared it with anyone. 
Halifax investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. It said there was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity and the bank thought Mrs O had authorised the withdrawals 
or made them herself because:
- Mrs O has confirmed the debit card was in her possession at all times.
- Mrs O explains that she hasnt shared her PIN with anyone.
As Mrs O didnt agree with Halifaxs decision, she asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude the withdrawals had been made fraudulently and thought they were most 
likely carried out or authorised by Mrs O.
 
Mrs O didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In response Mrs O said:
- She didnt authorise the transactions.
- Shes not convinced her card was used.
- Halifax should have obtained CCTV and failed in their duty of care to her by not 
making contact with her to raise the unusual transactions. 
As Mrs O didnt accept our investigators conclusions its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Halifax can hold Mrs O liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs Os genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold her liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mrs O consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that Mrs O 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
- To carry out the disputed withdrawals a fraudster would have needed access to 
Mrs Os card and PIN. Mrs O explains that she hasnt written her PIN down or shared 
it with anyone. Its clear that whoever carried out the transactions had access to 
Mrs Os PIN  because there werent any incorrect PIN entries. Ive considered how 
this might be possible, and on balance I think its likely that Mrs Os family members 
previously saw or knew her PIN. So Ive not ruled out this possibility. But Ive moved 
on to consider how a fraudster could have got hold of Mrs Os debit card. Mrs O 
explains that she kept her debit card in her bag at home and in a classroom 
cupboard when she was at work. I think its possible that someone known to Mrs O 
could have got hold of her debit card. But, there are genuine transactions throughout 
the time when Mrs Os says the disputed withdrawals occurred. And I find it highly 
unlikely a fraudster could have successfully taken and replaced Mrs O card without 
her noticing on at least five occasions.
- The pattern of withdrawals doesnt fit that of a usual fraudster. On getting hold of 
Mrs Os card and PIN Id expect a fraudster to spend as much and as quickly as 
possible. But this wasnt the case, even though balance checks were carried out 
before some of the disputed withdrawals, indicating the fraudster knew Mrs Os 
available balance. 
- Im surprised that Mrs O didnt raise the disputed transactions sooner. Between the 
first disputed withdrawal and when Mrs O raised the transactions she carried out a 
total of five balance enquiries. I find it strange she didnt notice  the significant 
discrepancy in her balance at an earlier point. 
- The ATM machines used by the fraudsters are in an area where Mrs O normally 
withdraws money. 
Mrs O responded to our investigators view by raising a number of points including the banks 
failure to obtain CCTV. Ive considered whether CCTV would change anything here and I 
realise this will disappoint Mrs O but Im afraid it doesnt. I say this because Mrs O doesnt 
need to make the withdrawals herself to be liable for them under the relevant rules. The 
relevant regulations still allow Halifax to hold her liable if she authorised someone else to 
carry them out. 
Mrs O also argued that she doesnt believe her card was used  but for the reasons Ive 
explained above Im satisfied it was Mrs Os genuine card and PIN that was used. As our 
investigator explained our service has not come across examples of cloned CHIPs and as 
these transactions were carried out by CHIP and PIN Ive ruled out this possibility.Mrs Os also argued that Halifax had a duty of care to identify and notify her about the 
unusual withdrawal pattern. Im afraid I dont agree with Mrs O here. I agree that theres an 
increase in the level of ATM withdrawals, but I dont think this these transactions are 
significantly unusual or out of character for Mrs O and therefore I wouldnt have expected 
Halifax to contact her. I say this because over the preceding six months Mrs O has carried 
out several ATM transactions of a similar value to the disputed withdrawals. 
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mrs O authorised the disputed 
withdrawals. It follows that Halifax is entitled to hold her liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman