DRN-3692704
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt refund her 
a payment she made to a crowdfunding platform when she didnt receive the perk she says 
she was guaranteed.
What happened
Mrs L is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr L, who is a supplementary 
cardholder on his wifes AESEL credit card account. As Mrs L is the main account holder, 
she is the only person eligible to bring this complaint to this service. But her husband is 
central to the events giving rise to this complaint and so, for ease, Ill refer to Mr L 
throughout.
Mr L paid about £525 towards a crowdfunding project in the expectation that hed receive a 
bike as a perk from the campaign owners. The campaigns page on the crowdfunding 
platform showed an image which said, early delivery 100% guaranteed. Mr L didnt receive 
the perk and so he asked the crowdfunding platform for a refund, but it refused. 
Mr L then raised a chargeback claim with AESEL. But it rejected the claim after the 
crowdfunding platform challenged the claim and provided evidence in support of its position. 
Mr L wasnt happy with AESELs response, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought AESEL had acted fairly and reasonably and didnt think it needed to 
do anything more. As Mr L doesnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but, having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator. Let me explain why.
I can understand why Mr L thought the advert on the crowdfunding platform was misleading. 
It said that it 100% guaranteed early delivery of the perk, which was a bike. And he didnt 
receive the bike that was promised. But my role in this case is to decide if AESEL should be 
held liable for the money Mr L contributed to the campaign. AESEL wasnt responsible for 
supplying the bike and so any potential liability it has for the agreement between Mr L and 
the crowdfunding platform is limited to the specific card protections which are available. In 
this case these are the chargeback rules and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which AESEL might have been able to recover funds for 
Mr L. But AESEL is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply. Ive considered the 
scheme rules to see if AESEL treated Mr L fairly. It appears that AESEL tried to raise a 
chargeback for Mr L based on a reason code that relates to goods or services not being 
received. But the chargeback wasnt successful as the crowdfunding platform pointed to its 
terms and conditions which said that any donations to a campaign didnt guarantee the 
delivery of a perk or a refund of the amount paid. 
Having looked at the evidence provided by the crowdfunding platform, Im satisfied that 
although the particular campaign Mr L decided to support said it guaranteed the delivery of 
the bike, the terms and conditions and other literature provided by the crowdfunding platform 
said that any donation made to a campaign did not guarantee perks or refunds.
The terms and conditions also said that campaign owners, not the crowdfunding platform, 
bore sole responsibility for the delivery of perks. The evidence also showed that the 
crowdfunding platform offered a full refund until the date the campaign ended  and Mr L 
had sought a refund after the campaign had ended.
I note that the crowdfunding platform do have a guaranteed delivery perk policy, which says 
that it will provide a refund if the perk isnt delivered within six months of the guaranteed 
delivery date. But that only applies to campaigns participating in that programme and Im 
satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that the campaign in question was not participating in 
that programme and did not have that guarantee.   
Ive considered whether there were any other chargeback reasons that would likely have 
been more successful. But because the crowdfunding platform challenged the chargeback 
claim and provided evidence to support its position, I think there were limited options to take 
via the chargeback route. And so, on balance, I dont think AESEL could reasonably have 
done more here in its attempts to get Mr L his money back via the chargeback route. 
Mr L provided correspondence from individuals he said were in the exact same position as 
himself, but their chargeback claims to AESEL had been successful. Mr L says he feels 
AESEL has discriminated against him. I can understand why he feels this way but having 
looked at all the evidence I dont think AESEL has done so. I can only comment on the 
circumstances presented to me and they show that AESEL handled his chargeback claim 
fairly in light of the evidence presented. I cant comment on the situation of the other 
individuals hes highlighted. But I hope that it helps Mr L to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into his concerns.
Section 75
Mr L didnt make a request for a refund under section 75. But, for completeness, Ive also 
considered whether he might have had been able to make a successful claim under that 
section of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of 
credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. But for a valid 
claim to be made under section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
arrangement in place. And in this case, that three-way link is broken. It was Mr L who 
entered into a contract with the supplier, but he is not the debtor for the purposes of section 
75. Mrs L is the main account holder and is solely responsible for paying the creditor 
(AESEL), not Mr L. So, as theres a break in the DCS link, section 75 wouldnt apply in this 
instance.  
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr Ls experienced but I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask AESEL to refund the money he paid to the crowdfunding platform. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about American Express Services 
Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman