DRN-4176306
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way that Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim he made on a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr R switched his existing private medical insurance policy from an 
insurer Ill call B to a new policy with A. Mr Rs new policy was underwritten on a Continued 
Medical Exclusions basis, although Aviva told Mr R that pre-existing medical conditions 
would be excluded until Aviva had had a chance to review the level of cover hed held with 
B.
Subsequently, in November 2022, Mr R made a claim for mental health treatment. As Aviva 
was still waiting for information about Mr Rs previous cover with B, it told Mr R that it 
couldnt agree to cover his claim at that point. In the meantime, Mr R began to undergo self-
funded treatment, as he understood that if the claim was later found to be eligible, Aviva 
would reimburse his costs.
On 13 December 2022, Aviva received the information it needed in order to confirm cover for 
Mr Rs treatment. So it asked Mr R to send it invoices for the sessions hed already 
undergone and paid for. Around a week later, Mr R sent Aviva four invoices, totalling £1000. 
Aviva settled the invoices, but it sent payment directly to Mr Rs therapist instead of 
reimbursing Mr R for his costs. This meant the therapist had been paid twice for Mr Rs 
treatment.
On 28 December 2022, Mr R contacted Aviva to chase up the payment and at that point, he 
learned that the invoices had been settled with the therapist. So he made a complaint, as 
hed been left out of pocket.
On the same day, Aviva tried to get in touch with the therapist to confirm that Mr R had 
settled the invoices directly and to ask if theyd reimburse Mr Rs payments to him directly. 
They tried again on 3 January 2023. However, as the therapist had been away, Aviva wasnt 
able to speak with him until 9 January 2023. The therapist agreed to refund Mr Rs payment 
directly.
Aviva looked into Mr Rs complaint. It said that the therapists invoices hadnt been marked 
as settled, which was why it had paid the invoices directly to the therapist rather than Mr R. 
However, it offered to pay Mr R £75 compensation to reflect the delay in him being 
reimbursed for his treatment costs.
Mr R remained unhappy with Avivas position and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator felt Aviva had handled Mr Rs claim fairly and that the £75 it had already 
offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr R disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr R, I think Aviva has already made a 
fair offer to settle his complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Rs policy and the circumstances of 
his claim, to decide whether Aviva treated him fairly.
Mr Rs policy covers eligible treatment of acute conditions. Its clear that at the point Mr R 
made the claim, Aviva considered his medical condition to be acute. But the claim was made 
a few weeks after Mr R had switched from his policy with B to the new policy with Aviva. At 
the outset, when Aviva issued Mr Rs policy documents, it told him that claims for pre-
existing medical conditions would be excluded until it had received confirmation of Mr Rs 
previous cover with B. And when Mr R first made the claim, Aviva hadnt received the 
information it needed from B to determine whether or not it wouldve covered a claim for Mr 
Rs mental health. On that basis, I think I was reasonable for Aviva not to agree to cover Mr 
Rs claim until it received the information it needed.
Upon receipt of the relevant information from B, Aviva promptly confirmed that Mr Rs claim 
would be paid. And so Mr R provided Aviva with invoices setting out the treatment hed 
undergone and the costs of that treatment. Aviva says that the invoices werent marked as 
settled and so it wasnt aware that Mr R had already paid for the therapy. Therefore, it paid 
the therapist directly  meaning that the therapist had been paid twice for the same 
treatments. Most, if not all, private medical insurers often have billing arrangements with 
healthcare professionals which mean invoices are settled directly, without a consumer 
needing to pay any costs, other than a potential excess (if applicable). So I dont think it was 
unfair or inappropriate for Aviva to settle the costs with the therapist, when it appears there 
was no clear evidence from the therapist that Mr R had already paid for his treatment.
I dont doubt how frustrating it was for Mr R when he learned what had happened. Hed 
expected to be promptly reimbursed for his treatment costs and I appreciate he was without 
this money over the festive period. But as Ive explained, I dont think Aviva acted 
unreasonably when it paid the therapist directly. And I think it took prompt and appropriate 
steps to try and resolve things with the therapist once it learned that theyd been paid twice. I 
can see from Avivas notes that it tried to contact the therapist on the day it found out what 
had happened and again a couple of days later. It appears the therapist was away during 
this period and so Aviva wasnt able to speak with them until 9 January 2023. I dont think I 
could fairly or reasonably hold Aviva responsible for any delay in speaking with the therapist, 
given they dont appear to have been working at the time. And it seems the therapist quickly 
agreed to get in touch with Mr R to obtain his details and directly refund the money to him. 
As such then, Im not persuaded Aviva made any clear or unreasonable errors here. 
However, it offered to pay Mr R £75 compensation for the delay in the reimbursement of his 
money. I think this was very fair in the circumstances and is a reasonable proxy to represent 
interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the funds for the period Mr R was out of pocket 
and also an award to recognise his trouble and upset at having to get in touch with Aviva to 
resolve things when he was already going through a difficult time. It remains open to Mr R to 
get in touch with Aviva should he now wish to accept its offer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Aviva has already made a fair 
offer to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman