DRN-2634585
The complaint
Miss G has said that Lloyds mis-sold her two Packaged Bank accounts. These were a Select 
account, which was taken out in February 1998 and a Gold account that was taken out in 
August 2010. 
She says she did not agree to these accounts and they were taken out when she took out 
childrens savings accounts and an ISA.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already, and they did not think that the 
accounts were mis-sold. Miss G did not agree with this and requested a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with I am not upholding this 
complaint, let me explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Miss G was given a clear choice in taking the 
respective packaged accounts. At this point, it may help for me to explain that where matters 
are in dispute  such as here - I have to make my decision based on what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence.
Firstly, I will address whether Miss G was given a fair choice in taking out the accounts.
In relation to the Select account, Miss G has said that this upgrade occurred whilst she was 
taking out two childrens savings accounts and she did not agree to the upgrade. Whilst I 
dont wish to question Miss Gs recollections of these events, I have to be mindful that the 
event in question took place over 23 years ago. I also can see that Lloyds notes from the 
time of the sale state that the account was upgraded at the request of Miss G. So overall, I 
think that it is more likely than not that Miss G did agree to upgrade her account, albeit in 
circumstances she no longer recalls. Additionally, as she had held a fee free account with 
Lloyds prior to this upgrade I think she wouldve known that fee free accounts were available 
and an option for her.
Miss G says she took out the Gold account as part of an application for an ISA. There are 
records from the time the ISA was opened that mentioned that a Gold account was 
discussed during this meeting. But I can see that the Gold account was taken out two 
months after the ISA was opened. Additionally, I can see that Lloyds records suggest that 
the formal discussion around the benefits of the account took place two months after the ISA 
was taken out. So, I am not persuaded that Miss G couldve been led to believe that 
obtaining an ISA was conditional on having a Gold account, or that her account was 
upgraded to the Gold account during the same meeting. 
Lloyds records from the sale of the Gold account suggest that it recommended the Gold 
account as it came with Travel insurance, which was a benefit that the Select account did 
not come with at the time of the upgrade. I also can see that she contacted the insurer in 
2016, therefore I think that it is more likely than not that she agreed to this account as she 
was interested in the Travel insurance benefit. So, I think that she was given a fair choice to 
take out the Gold account and she chose to do so.
When the Select account was taken out the account did not contain any insurance benefits, 
so given this, I am not persuaded that Lloyds made a formal recommendation that the 
account would meet Miss Gs insurance needs. Lloyds would though have to give Miss G 
enough information for her to decide whether the account was right for her. Given the 
amount of time that has passed since this account was taken out I am unsure of what the 
benefits were, but I think that they wouldve been outlined to Miss G, as after all, Lloyds was 
trying to get Miss G to agree to an account that I believe she knew she did not have to have.
I accept Miss G may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the Select 
account came with, but I cant see anything specific that she was not told that I think 
wouldve changed her decision to take out the account.
In relation to the Gold account, I believe that Lloyds did make a personal recommendation 
that the account was right for Miss G based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. 
When this account was taken out the main benefits that it came with were Worldwide Travel 
insurance, Breakdown cover and Mobile Phone insurance. Whereas the Select account she 
held prior to this had similar benefits (most of which were added after the original sale), but 
the Select account did not come with Travel insurance. As I have already explained Lloyds 
says it recommended the account for Travel insurance and based on what I can see I do not 
think that this recommendation was inappropriate.
Again, I accept that Lloyds may not have told Miss G everything about all of the benefits that 
the account came with, but I am satisfied that the major benefits wouldve been outlined to 
her. This is illustrated by her making a claim under the breakdown cover and it seems as if 
she also registered a mobile phone under the mobile phone insurance. I also cant see 
anything specific that Miss G was not told that I think wouldve altered her decision to take 
out the account.
I note that Miss G has said that she was in financial difficulties at the time that these 
accounts were taken out. But I cant see from Lloyds contact notes or anything else to 
suggest that this was discussed or shouldve been apparent to Lloyds at the times of these 
sales. So, I dont think it was inappropriate for Lloyds to have sold either of these accounts.
Overall, I can understand that this will be disappointing for Miss G and I can see that with 
hindsight she may not have felt that these accounts provided value for money. But I cant 
see that the accounts were mis-sold in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Charlie NewtonOmbudsman