DRN-2565195
The complaint
Mrs F complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management 
company.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to AXA as the seller in 
this decision.
What happened
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy that Mrs F took out when she was applying 
for a store card in 1997. The PPI covered her card repayments if she couldnt work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Mrs F 
had her own way of keeping up with the repayments over a reasonable period of time if she 
wasnt able to work. She would have received six months fully pay followed by six months 
half pay from her employer and she had £20,000 in savings. Our adjudicator didnt think 
Mrs F would have bought the policy, if she had received clear information about the policys 
cost and benefits  because of her existing arrangements.
AXA didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Mrs F had only been employed by the public sector for three years, so wouldnt have 
received the sick pay she says she would.
Mrs F hasnt provided any information about her savings so theres not enough to say 
that these would have been available to meet the card repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im holding this complaint. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
I think Mrs Fs existing means would have been enough for her to be able to meet the card 
repayments if she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident, or if she became 
unemployed.
She told us she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay. 
I think this is unlikely. I think it more likely than not that she would have received the 
published public sector sick pay for a worker in their third or fourth year of service  either 
four months full pay, followed by four months half pay (for the third year of service), or five 
months full pay, followed by five months half pay (for the fourth year of service). So she 
would have had the equivalent of at least six months full pay.
Mrs F hasnt provided us with evidence to show what savings she had in 1997. And Im not 
surprised she hasnt been able to show us a bank statement or building society passbook 
from that long ago. But shes been consistent in her testimony that she had £20,000 in 
savings. This was equivalent to at least 18 months of her salary. Shes told us this money 
was in a readily accessible account and that it wasnt earmarked for anything in particular. 
Taking into account what I think she would have received from her employer, and the 
savings that in all likelihood she had immediate access to, I think her existing arrangements 
meant she could have continued to meet the store card repayments for around two years if 
she couldnt work.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs F, so it didnt have to make sure it was suitable for 
her. But it did have to provide her with information which was clear, fair and not misleading 
so that she could make an informed choice about the insurance she was buying.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs F clear enough information about the PPI. I say this 
because I think its more likely than not that Mrs F didnt need the PPI because of her 
existing means. So she wouldnt have taken the PPI if shed been given enough clear 
information about it. So I think Mrs F lost out as a result of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should do the following:
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs F would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs F owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs F made a successful 
claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it 
owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs F would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs F would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs F 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs F paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs F wouldve 
owed AXA something on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs F what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD should pay compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman