DRN-3857609
The complaint
Mr R complains that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd never informed him his commercial 
vehicle insurance policy was cancelled.
Reference to Right Choice includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Right Choice (an insurance broker) 
in May 2021.
In June 2021, Right Choice wrote to Mr R on behalf of the insurer saying it needed more 
information from him. It said if it didnt receive the information within seven days, it would 
cancel the policy.
Mr R didnt provide anything further. He thought hed provided everything needed when he 
took the policy out.
Right Choice cancelled the policy on behalf of the insurer on 8 July 2021. But it didnt let 
Mr R know of this.
Mr R was stopped by the police for driving without insurance on 26 November 2021. He said 
he told the police he thought he was insured, and they believed his version of events. But 
said he was charged £100 by the DVLA. And hes concerned his insurance premiums - in 
terms of this policy and his private policy - will increase as a result of being stopped for 
driving without insurance. Mr R also said he received notification from a third-party insurer 
about a claim following an accident he was involved in in August 21. Hes not heard anything 
following initial contact but hes worried that hell have to pay any claim himself and doesnt 
think this is fair.
Mr R complained to Right Choice about the above. Right Choice didnt uphold his complaint, 
so, he brought it to us. It said it discounted Mr Rs new policy to take into account the DVLA 
fine and didnt think it needed do any more.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. She didnt think Right Choice had done 
enough when cancelling Mr Rs policy. So, she recommended it be recorded as cancelled by 
him. She also thought Right Choice should step in and deal with the third-party claim from 
August 2021. She also thought Right Choice should compensate Mr R £500 for the trouble 
and upset of being stopped by the police and the impact that may have on his future 
insurance premiums.
Mr R agreed. Right Choice didnt. It maintained it had cancelled Mr Rs policy fairly as it told 
him when it would cancel the policy and it heard nothing from him after that notification. And 
it said it was a condition of Mr Rs policy that he inform it of any accidents hes involved in. It 
said had Mr R told them about the incident in August, it would have told him at that point he 
wasnt insured. It says he then wouldnt have been stopped by the police for driving 
uninsured in November.
Our investigator subsequently changed her view on Mr Rs complaint. She still didnt think 
the policy was cancelled fairly because Right Choice didnt tell Mr R when it was cancelled, 
only when it would be. She thought Right Choice should make sure the cancellation was 
recorded as cancelled by Mr R and that there was no record of the cancellation on any 
internal or external databases. And she still thought Right Choice needed to deal with the 
third-party claim  should it materialise  from the incident in August. She thought this 
because she thought up to this point Mr R thought he was insured. But she agreed Mr R 
needed to notify Right Choice (or the insurer directly) about that incident in August, whether 
he wanted to claim or not. And she thought that if he had done, he would have been 
informed then that he wasnt insured. So, she didnt think Right Choice was responsible for 
Mr R being stopped by the police after this point. So, she didnt think the £500 compensation 
was now due.
Mr R didnt respond to this. Right Choice still didnt agree. It maintains it did enough when 
cancelling Mr Rs policy in July 2021. So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it in part. Ill explain my reasoning.
Im not satisfied Right Choice did enough when cancelling Mr Rs policy. I 
acknowledge it sent Mr R notification it would cancel his policy on a certain date. But 
it never sent confirmation it did cancel the policy. Whats more it didnt cancel the 
policy on the date it said it would, it cancelled roughly three weeks later  I 
acknowledge this only benefited Mr R but it serves to show that simply saying what 
action you will take is not sufficient. In Right Choices letter informing Mr R it would 
cancel the policy it makes it very clear that driving uninsured is against the law. It is 
precisely this reason why its vital that policy holders are informed in writing that the 
policy has cancelled and the date of that cancellation. Ideally that communication 
should be done in two mediums too.
Therefore, I agree the cancellation should be recorded as being cancelled by Mr R. 
There should be no record of the cancellation on any internal or external databases.
I think had Right Choice done what it needed to, Mr R wouldnt have been uninsured 
during the incident in August 2021. This is further supported by him calling Right 
Choice the day he was stopped by police to arrange a new policy  he clearly didnt 
want to be driving uninsured. So, I do find Right Choice responsible for Mr R driving 
uninsured up to and including that incident  because he wasnt made aware 
otherwise. So, should any third-party claim be made against Mr R for that incident, 
Right Choice should step in and deal with it as though it were Mr Rs insurer. Its 
important Mr R passes any information relating to this claim to Right Choice as soon 
as possible to allow it to deal with any claim swiftly and efficiently.
But Mr R should have notified Right Choice (or the insurer of the policy directly) 
about that incident in August, whether he or the third party intended to claim not. Its 
a condition of the policy that he do so. Had he done this, I find it highly likely hed 
have been informed at that point that he was uninsured. And had he been told he 
was uninsured, I think it highly unlikely hed not then have been stopped by the police 
in November for being uninsured. This is because I find it likely hed have purchased 
another policy with either Right Choice or another business upon being made aware 
he was uninsured  as supported by his action following being stopped by the police. And in the unlikely event he didnt purchase another policy, that would have been his 
choice and not something Right Choice can be fairly held accountable for.
Therefore, I dont hold Right Choice responsible for Mr R being stopped by the police 
for driving without insurance. And so, it follows that I dont hold it responsible for any 
impact relating to that stop including the DVLA fine or subsequent impact to his 
premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part. To put things right I require 
Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd to:
Treat the cancellation of this policy as cancelled by Mr R. Any record of cancellation 
should be removed from any internal or external databases.
Should any third-party claim be made relating to the incident in August 2021, Right 
Choice should deal with it as if it were Mr Rs insurer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman