DRN-3134056
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc has not treated him fairly in relation to claims he 
raised in relation to a series of credit card transactions he made, under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr Hs dispute is about four payments said to have been made on his Clydesdale credit 
card:
£667.28 to S, said to have been for a holiday club membership, in May 2007.
An unidentified amount said to have been paid to another company, R, some 
time in 2009. Clydesdale were unable to find this payment on Mr Hs account.
£2,479.41 to IS, said to have been for the purchase of a product from 
another company CC, in January 2012.
£1,397 to HFI, said to have been for the purchase of timeshare resale services 
from another company, STH, in November 2012.
At the time the complaint was referred to me to make a decision, all parties had agreed that 
Mr H didnt have valid section 75 claims relating to the transactions to S, R and IS. 
This was because there was not enough information in respect of the transaction with S to 
be able to draw any conclusions; the transaction with R didnt appear to have taken place on 
Mr Hs Clydesdale card; and there was no debtor-creditor-supplier agreement linking Mr H, 
Clydesdale and CC, due to a lack of an association between IS and CC.
Disagreement remained however, in respect of the transaction to HFI. I issued my 
provisional decision on the complaint on 29 October 2021. Ive reproduced the findings from 
that provisional decision in italics below. My provisional decision forms a part of this final 
decision:
It appears there is no longer any disagreement on whether Clydesdale has any section 75 
liability to Mr H in relation to the purchases from S, R and CC, so I do not propose to 
consider those in any detail in my decision. I will say only that I agree with the most recent 
view reached by our investigator in relation to those purchases, and for the same reasons I 
summarised above.
Unfortunately, I find myself disagreeing with the outcome our investigator reached in relation 
to the purchase from STH. Ill explain why.
Without getting overly technical, in order for a person to be able to bring a claim against their 
credit card issuer under section 75, the credit card needs to have financed a transaction 
between them and a supplier. There also need to have been pre-existing arrangements 
between the creditor and the supplier. Finally, the person needs to have a claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
The problem with having a credit card payment go to someone other than the supplier, is 
that the creditor will not have pre-existing arrangements with the supplier. It will have such 
arrangements with the payee who accepted the card. But the lack of pre-existing 
arrangements with the supplier means that there is no DCS agreement in place and a valid 
section 75 claim cannot be made.
There are however some exceptions. If the payee and the supplier are associates as 
defined in section 184 of the CCA (and mentioned above), then they are interchangeable for 
the purpose of pre-existing arrangements. In other words, it doesnt matter who the creditor 
has these arrangements with, so long as it has arrangements with one of them.
There is another exception that can apply, which was outlined by our investigator in his 
assessments. This is the exception identified in the case of Bank of Scotland vs. Alfred 
Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB). The case concerned a firm of solicitors which had a motor 
trader as one of its clients. The motor trader did not have the facilities to take credit card 
payments from customers, so the solicitors took the payments instead, as deposits for cars 
which customers of the motor trader had ordered. The court found that the contractual 
arrangements between the motor trader and the solicitors were adequate to link the motor 
trader to the card scheme through the transactions processed via the solicitors credit card 
facilities, and therefore mean there were pre-existing arrangements between them and the 
creditor, and a DCS agreement in place.
The judge in the Alfred Truman case observed that there were problems with applying this 
conclusion as a general principle, and there were difficulties in establishing where the line 
should be drawn between scenarios where pre-existing arrangements (and therefore DCS) 
should be considered to exist, and where things were too tenuous to be able to draw such 
a conclusion. The judge went on to say that the problem would need to be resolved on a 
case by case basis, and the precise contractual arrangements between the parties would 
determine whether the creditor had any liability under section 75.
In a later County Court case, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016], the judge 
considered the Alfred Truman case in the context of a company which had contracted with a
 
consumer to supply and install solar panels. This company (Company A) hadnt taken the 
consumers credit card payment. It had been taken instead by another company, Company
B. The precise nature of the arrangement between the companies was not known, but 
Company A had invoiced Company B after the latter had taken payment from the consumer. 
It was also established that Company B was the actual supplier of the solar panels. The 
judge found Company B had an interest in the supply and installation of the solar panels and 
that this was enough to draw a conclusion that pre-existing arrangements existed between 
the supplier and the creditor and a DCS agreement was therefore in place.
Taken together, the conclusions I draw from the two cases above is that, firstly, knowing the 
precise contractual arrangements between a supplier and a payee is important in 
determining whether pre-existing arrangements exist between the supplier and the creditor. 
Secondly, if there is an absence of precise knowledge of the contractual arrangements 
between the supplier and the entity which received a credit card payment, the involvement of 
that payee in the provision of the goods or services under the contract between the debtor 
and the supplier, should be enough for me to be able to conclude there were pre-existing 
arrangements between the supplier and the creditor and therefore a valid DCS agreement 
under which a debtor could bring a section 75 claim.
Analysis with respect to Mr Hs caseI turn now to the application of the above concepts to Mr Hs case and in particular his 
purchase from STH. I will say firstly that there is very little information available about either 
STH or HFI. I have found no evidence of the companies being registered in the UK, or of the 
identities of any individuals involved with them.
Ive seen a partial copy of a contract between Mr H and STH. This appears to be an 
agreement that STH would dispose of a timeshare or holiday club product he owned by 
finding a buyer who would make him an offer. Mr Hs credit card payment shows on his 
statement as having gone to Hfi on 15 November 2012. I have seen an agreement dated 
15 November 2012 but which Mr H signed on 17 November 2012 which is headed HFI. 
The agreement Mr H signed with HFI says:
We have been invited by STH to act for you in the processing of a payment, if necessary by 
credit or debit card. We have been asked to verify your identity, obtain a signed copy of the 
agreement you have entered into with them and also hold copies of those documents.
Making the payment of deposits or other monies and obtaining the documents is the full 
extent of our contractual obligation to you and no contract or relationship exists or shall be 
created between the owner/s/ card owner and us other than is necessary to carry out these 
services and enable such payment to take place.
With reference to this we require you to understand the following points:
 You should satisfy yourself as to the nature of the agreement being entered into by 
you with STH and be aware of the specific service or product being paid for.
 You should be aware that you are using a third party service provider to make the 
payment directed by STH to accommodate the smooth and efficient payent for the 
product or service you have contracted for.
 All matters concerning the products and services are a matter for STH and that there 
is no recourse against us. We are neither an agent nor a partner of STH.
 You warrant that all funds paid to us are legally held and of non-criminal origin.
 STH has invited us to act for you in making payment.
 
Later, under Mr Hs signature, the document went on:
I, hereby authorise you to forward the signed contract to STH and the Payment to the third 
party holding account minus 27.5% for our fee.
Based on this, it seems Mr H entered into two contracts: one with STH for the disposal of his 
timeshare or club membership, and one with HFI for payment and document processing 
services. HFI took a fee of 27.5% of the payment amount for these services, and presumably 
passed the rest on to STH.
Given how little is known about the companies, Im unable to conclude they are associates, 
and I have no detailed information about the contractual arrangements between the two of 
them. HFI claimed not to have been an agent or a partner of STH, and said instead it was 
an agent of Mr H. Given STH had invited HFI to participate in the overall agreement, I think 
like our investigator that there was likely an established business arrangement between the 
two companies. I think that HFI may have been acting as an agent for STH as well, in the 
sense it was processing documents and payments on its behalf. This doesnt seem too 
dissimilar to the situation in Alfred Truman, but in that case the court had a lot more 
information about the arrangements between the companies involved, and there was not a 
separate contract between the consumers and the solicitors. So I dont think the situations 
are so alike that I can say pre-existing arrangements existed between STH and Clydesdale, 
via HFI.I also note HFI was at pains to distance itself from Mr Hs contract with STH and the services 
the latter was supposed to supply to him. Indeed, Mr H specifically signed to say that he 
understood HFI were not involved with those services at all. This would appear to show that 
the situation here was also unlike that in Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd. So I 
dont think the judgment in that case helps establish that there were pre-existing 
arrangements between STH and Clydesdale either.
The conclusion I am left with is that there is insufficient evidence to show that there were 
pre-existing arrangements between STH and Clydesdale which would allow Mr H to hold 
Clydesdale liable, under section 75, for the failure of STH to follow through on its contract 
with him.
I know Mr H will find my conclusions disappointing, especially after having waited so long for 
an answer from us. However, my view is that Clydesdale does not need to take any action in 
respect of the purchases he has disputed.
Clydesdale didnt reply to the provisional decision. Mr H replied to say that he was very 
disappointed with the outcome. The case has now been returned to me to review once 
again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party to the complaint has put forward any new evidence or arguments for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings quoted above. It 
follows that I do not think Clydesdale was wrong to decline Mr Hs section 75 claims.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman