DRN-3024094
The complaint
Mr P complains about the transfer of his ISA to Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd  referred
to as Vanguard or the transferee  from a third-party provider, referred to as the
transferor.
What happened
In late June 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that it behaved
reasonably.
I should make clear that Im also considering the complaint against the transferor, but as a
separate case.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to note Mr Ps strength of feeling
about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive
read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr P and Vanguard, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice.
But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than
not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, subject to any further submissions,
provisionally I think its more likely than not that the application to transfer wouldve been
completed by 16 March 2020, roughly a month and a half sooner, but for the delays caused
by Vanguard.
So, provisionally I think Vanguard should compare the value of the ISA on 16 March 2020,
with the value Mr P received in April 2020 and pay the difference, if there is a loss, with 8%
simple interest.
The chronology of events suggests that Mr P sent Vanguard a signed transfer request form
on 27 January 2020, but its not clear why it took Vanguard until 8 February 2020  around
11/12 calendar days  to submit the request to the transferor. I note thats roughly a third of
the 30 days recommended by HMRC within which to complete a transfer, before it even sent
the form.
I note that on 20 February 2020, the transferor sent the valuation to the transferee by post.
Theres nothing to suggest that this was an incorrect method of correspondence or delivery
at the time.
Its not entirely clear why, but by 28 February 2020, Vanguard still hadnt received a copy of
the valuation. I note that on 2 March 2020, Mr P raised concerns with the transferor which
then reported the matter to its investigations team, and on 5 March 2020 (the next day), it
confirmed that the valuation was sent on 20 February 2020. In due course, on 11 March
2020, the transferor sent another copy of the valuation after being requested to do so. Im
mindful that Vanguard accepts that it ought to have made a request sooner.
But the above notwithstanding, Im aware that on 10 March 2020  the day before another
valuation was sent  Vanguard says it received a copy of a valuation. Its not entirely clear
what happened, but in the circumstances, I think its unlikely that a document would take 20
or so calendar days for delivery. 
Therefore, on balance, I think its more likely (than not) that Vanguard had received the 
valuation (sent on 20 February 2020) sometime before 10 March 2020, but it hadnt recorded 
it. Its likely that there was an issue with Vanguard, in terms of processing and recording the 
valuation.
Im mindful that the transferor sent another copy of the valuation on 11 March 2020 having
been asked to do so, presumably unaware that a valuation had been received by the
transferee the day before.
I note that the response from Vanguard, sent on 10 March 2020, accepting the valuation
wasnt received by the transferor. Two subsequent copies were sent  on 19 March and 30
March 2020, before the transferee finally received a copy on 31 March 2020, despite the
transferor sending Vanguard chasers/reminders.
In the circumstances, I think that Vanguard ought reasonably to have re-sent copies of its
acceptance sooner than it did, to keep the process moving. On balance, it seems that
Vanguard accepts this. Im mindful that the transferor couldnt have progressed matters
without an acceptance from Vanguard.
Upon receiving the acceptance, I note that the transferor immediately sold Mr Ps holdings. I
note that a cheque was raised by the transferor and sent to Vanguard a few days later, on 3
April 2020  but it wasnt received.
Im aware that Vanguard only raised an issue on 24 April 2020, roughly 20 or so days later,
when it asked for a new cheque, even though I think its likely to have known  through Mr P
 that its valuation had been received at the beginning of the month. In the circumstances, I
think it ought reasonably to have chased the transferor sooner and if it had done so it is
more likely than not the transfer would have completed sooner. Therefore, provisionally I
think that Vanguard is responsible for the delays resulting from not chasing the transferor
when it should have done.
I should clarify that the guidance provided about ISA transfers refers to these taking between
15 and 30 working days  depending on the type of ISA  within which to successfully
complete an ISA transfer. Just because a business doesnt perform a text book perfect
transaction doesnt of itself mean that it has done something wrong.
But, in this case I think Vanguards responsible for the delays, which were likely to have had
an impact on the Mr P being able to buy new shares. On balance, I think the transaction is
more likely than not to have completed (roughly) a month and a half earlier  by 16 March
2020  but for the delays. Therefore, I think its responsible for the losses suffered by Mr P.Whilst I appreciate there are different ways to calculate redress, provisionally, I think 
Vanguard should compare the value of the ISA on 16 March 2020, with the value Mr P 
received in April 2020 and pay the difference, if there is a loss, with 8% simple interest.
Provisionally I think Vanguard should also pay Mr P £100 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
I note what Mr P says about what he was told about the value of the shares in
February/March 2020, but in the circumstances, I think Vanguard should calculate redress
based on the methodology that Ive suggested.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any  
further submissions they wished me to consider. 
Mr P responded and in summary, said:
He had no further information to add to what hed already provided. Hes satisfied 
that the delays were caused by Vanguard. 
Hes identified six steps in the transfer process and cant see why the process 
wouldve taken longer than six weeks. Hes not satisfied that the cumulative effect of 
the delays has been taken into account. 
In terms of redress, the value of the ISA should be calculated using a date thats five 
days earlier than the date of 15 March 2020 - I think this should read 16 March 2020 
 as suggested by me, to consider postal delays and cheque clearance. He feels that 
would be a more realistic date. 
He doesnt want cash payment for the difference in value, if theres a loss. Hed like 
the holdings in his ISA to be increased accordingly, based on the prevailing unit price 
on the date the transfer ought to have taken place.  
Ive referred to the transferor in my decision, when I shouldve referred to Vanguard. 
He hasnt yet received any compensation. Vanguard sent him a hamper of its own 
accord, which hes donated to the local food bank.  
I asked the business if it would be possible to add any compensation to Mr Ps ISA rather 
than cash payment.
The business responded and in summary, said:
Having contacted the transferor, it was told that the value of Mr Ps account wouldve 
been £69,064.34 on 16 March 2020. But when Mr Ps account was transferred to it, it 
was £72,109.68, therefore theres no financial loss. 
It will arrange for the payment of £100 compensation for trouble and upset to be paid 
to Mr Ps account. 
Its not possible to pay this into Mr Ps ISA account. But Mr P can choose to invest 
this money in his ISA if he hasnt used his tax-free allowance in other accounts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I still think its more likely than not that the 
application to transfer wouldve been completed by 16 March 2020, roughly a month and a 
half sooner, but for the delays caused by Vanguard.As a result of my provisional decision Vanguard compared the value of the ISA on 16 March 
2020, with the value Mr P received in April 2020, but found no loss based on the valuation it 
says it was given by the transferor as of 16 March 2020. 
I appreciate Mr Ps points about how long he feels the process shouldve taken, but the 
transfer process is a dynamic one  involving two or more parties  dependant on several 
factors, some of which are outside of the parties control. For example, if there were postal 
delays, I cant hold Vanguard responsible for the actions of a third-party postal service. 
Having analysed the stages, and where I think the delays were likely to have been caused, 
on balance I dont agree that the date of 16 March 2020 is arbitrary or that the date should 
be five days earlier than Ive suggested. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to take 
into account hypothetical delays in the post and cheque clearance.  
Vanguard has said there isnt a loss as a result of the delays. I note it said:
We have reviewed the Ombudsmans decision and reached out to (the transferor) to obtain 
the value of Mr Ps (name anonymised) account on 16th March 2020 as requested. They 
advised us that the total value at that point was £69,064.34.
When Mr Ps (name anonymised) account was transferred to us, the value was £72,109.68. 
Therefore, there is no financial loss and so no redress would be paid. 
In the circumstances, based on what Vanguard says, it doesnt appear that Mr P has 
suffered a financial loss as a result of the delays but rather is better off. So, in the 
circumstances there isnt a basis for awarding redress based on Mr P having suffered a loss.
However, I still think Vanguard should pay Mr P £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused and do so immediately unless it has paid this amount already. Mr P will be 
aware that this amount cant be placed in his ISA account by Vanguard, but he might be able 
to do this himself, subject to the status of his tax allowance. 
Mr P quite rightly refers to a typo in which I referred to the transferor business on two 
occasions in my provisional decision, rather than refer to Vanguard. I apologise for any upset 
this may have caused, and Ive amended the error. 
  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd, has compared the value of the ISA on 16 March 2020, 
with the value Mr P received in April 2020 and concluded that there is no loss. 
However, in the circumstances, Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd, should pay Mr P £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused, unless it had already done so.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd, should pay Mr P compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman