DRN-2761640
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mishandled his dispute about poor quality 
Wi-Fi in a hotel.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
There are two elements to this complaint, firstly the banks failure to pursue a chargeback 
claim and its rejection of a claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Chargeback is a process that is provided by the Card Scheme- in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods 
or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund. MasterCard checks the nature of the problem 
against the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim will be successful. If the 
bank feels that a claim won't be successful, they don't have to raise a chargeback.
BoS did not pursue a chargeback claim as it did not think it would succeed. I agree. I do not 
believe Mastercard would have upheld that claim given the major element of the service was 
provided by the merchant. 
On the matter of the section 75 claim the bank took a similar line. Mr G paid for the rental of 
a room in the budget hotel. I have noted it advertised that it advertised that it had Wi-Fi and 
Mr Gs booking form shows that the room comes with Wi-Fi. There is no statement about the 
quality of the Wi-Fi which can be variable for any number of reasons. 
Mr G says the Wi-Fi was intermittent and I can sympathise with his frustration at this poor 
service. Although I do not have any independent evidence about the hotels Wi-Fi, I have no 
reason to doubt Mr Gs claim. 
However, I cannot say that it was the major constituent of the contract he had with the hotel. 
Looking at the matter in the round I see that the bank has paid him £80 for delays in dealing 
with his complaint. If I were to uphold his complaint, I would have to consider reopening that 
offer which I consider to be generous and taking the delays with the poor Wi-Fi provided in to 
account I do not believe I would ask the bank to pay more than it has already. 
So while I have every sympathy with Mr G I do not consider I can ask the bank to do any 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman