DRN-4120965
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) mis-sold her a number of fee-paying
packaged accounts.
In summary, Mrs M says that they were mis-sold because she says that TSB failed to check
whether the package of benefits were right for her.
Account history
Mrs Ms account history is as follows:
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account  July 2001
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account  30 November 2006
Downgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account  16 May 2007
What happened
In its response to the complaint, TSB upheld Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of the first
Platinum account and the sale of the Premier account. However, it didnt think that the 
Platinum account sold in May 2007 (which was actually a downgrade from the Premier 
account) was mis-sold.
Mrs M accepted TSBs findings relating to the two accounts it had upheld, but referred her 
complaint to our service about the sale of the Platinum account in May 2007. Mrs M felt that 
the account fees for that packaged account should also be refunded.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they upheld Mrs Ms complaint and
recommended that TSB refund the account fees Mrs M paid for the Platinum account from
May 2007.
TSB dis-agreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 August 2023, explaining why I didnt think the Platinum 
account Mrs M took out in May 2007 was mis-sold. I have included an extract of my 
provisional decision below and it forms a part of this decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our 
website and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered 
everything, I currently think that the Platinum account sold in May 2007 was not mis-
sold. I will explain why below.
A central part of the adjudicators assessment was that she concluded that the 
Platinum account sold in May 2007 was done so on an advised basis. And indeed, 
Mrs Ms complaint is essentially that TSB failed to assess whether Mrs M had a need 
for the benefits - as it is required to do during an advised sale. Conversely, TSB says 
that the sale was done so on a non-advised basis.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I dont think that the Platinum account sale 
was done so on an advised basis.
I say this because TSB has provided evidence which shows that Mrs M called TSB 
and specifically requested that her account be downgraded from a Premier account 
to a Platinum account.
As such, given that Mrs M contacted TSB (not the other way round) and she was 
requesting that her account be changed to a specific packaged account, I cant see 
why TSB wouldve provided advice, as Mrs M clearly knew what product she wanted. 
Indeed, there is no other evidence available - including Mrs Ms testimony - to 
indicate that any advice or recommendation was given at the time.
Making such a distinction is important, because if the packaged account had been 
sold on an advised or recommended basis, then TSB wouldve been required to 
assess Mrs Ms circumstances and ensure that the package of benefits was a 
reasonable fit for Mrs Ms circumstances. Whereas if the packaged account had been 
sold on a non-advised basis, then TSB would not have been required to assess if the 
packaged account that Mrs M was requesting was a good fit for her circumstances at 
the time.
As I think that the account was sold on a non-advised basis  essentially because 
Mrs M was specifically requesting her Premier account to be downgraded to a 
Platinum account, I therefore cant reasonably say that TSB did anything wrong if it 
didnt assess whether Mrs M had a need for the Platinum account benefits.
What TSB wouldve been required to do was to provide Mrs M with enough 
information about the account, its cost and associated benefits, so that she was able 
to make an informed choice.
Unfortunately, due to how long ago the account was sold to Mrs M, there is very 
limited evidence available from the time to be able to say what information Mrs M 
was given about the account.
However, I cant see anything that makes me think Mrs M wouldve been put off from
agreeing to the account had she been given more information about it. I say this 
bearing in mind that Mrs M had held the Platinum account for a number of years  up 
until six months prior to reverting back to it in May 2007. As such, I think its likely that 
Mrs M had a good appreciation for what was included with the account  otherwise I 
doubt she wouldve requested to have the account again if she didnt know what it 
actually provided or had some need for some of the benefits it provided.
I also note that when Mrs M held the Premier account beforehand, she was able to 
have the Premier packaged account for the same price as the Platinum account. 
Based on my experience of TSBs sales practices and the evidence available in this 
case, I think it was most likely the case that Mrs M was offered the Premier account 
at a discounted rate, and Mrs M chose to revert back to the Platinum account before 
she was charged the full amount for the Premier account. In my view, Mrs Ms 
actions at the time indicate that she was aware of, and happy to pay, the monthly fee for the Platinum account and was aware that she could upgrade and downgrade 
packaged accounts accordingly.
So taking everything into account, I dont currently think that the Platinum account 
that Mrs M requested to be added to her account in May 2007 was mis-sold.
Indeed, the basis of Mrs Ms complaint  that TSB failed to check if the benefits were
suitable for her at the time  was not something TSB was actually required to do for 
the sale in question. And if its the case that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, 
Mrs M now doesnt think it was as good value for money as she mayve thought at 
the time, that doesnt mean that TSB should refund her the account fees or indicate 
that TSB did anything wrong by arranging for her account to be downgraded back to 
a Platinum account - as she had requested.
I should also point out that, just because TSB chose to uphold the earlier sales, 
doesnt automatically mean that the sale in 2007 must therefore have also been mis-
sold. This is because I have to consider each sale on its merits and on the evidence 
that is available. And for the reasons outlined above, I dont currently think it was mis-
sold.
My provisional decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im currently minded to not uphold this 
complaint.
After I issued my provisional decision TSB didnt respond, but Mrs M did. 
In summary Mrs M said that her intention was not to complain about the sale in 2007, but the 
advised sales in 2001 onwards. 
Mrs M says that she took on the account due to advice that TSB had provided her. Mrs M 
says that due to her circumstances, she didnt need the benefits of the earlier packaged 
accounts. Mrs M asked for evidence of the advice given in the original sales. 
Mrs M says she doesnt understand how TSB could uphold and refund later fees, but 
exclude certain packaged account fees. Mrs M says TSB should not be able to pick and 
choose and exclude earlier periods. The account was mis-sold and the whole period should 
be treated as such.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged accounts on our 
website and I have used that to help me decide this complaint. And having reconsidered 
everything, including Mrs Ms response to my provisional decision, I remain of the view that 
the Platinum account Mrs M took out in May 2007 was not mis-sold.
Firstly, I note that Mrs M says that it is not her intention to complain about the sale in 2007. 
However, her later comments contradict this, as she says that she believes she should 
receive a refund for the whole period she had a packaged account. Put simply, if Mrs M 
wants the fees refunded for the Platinum account that she had since in May 2007, then it is 
necessary for our service to consider whether that specific packaged account was mis-sold.Mrs M asked that TSB provide evidence of the advice given in the earlier sales i.e. the 
Platinum account sold in 2001 and the Premier account sold in November 2006. However, I 
cant see that would add anything to this decision, because TSB has already accepted that it 
had mis-sold those packaged accounts and refunded the fees Mrs M paid for them, with 
interest.
Mrs M has said that we should essentially treat the whole time she had a packaged account 
as a whole. But that is not how our service considers complaints about packaged accounts. 
Each time an account holder changes (either upgrades or downgrades) the type of 
packaged account, each occasion is deemed to be a separate sale. This is because each 
packaged account is a separate financial product that includes a specific package of 
benefits. 
Because of this, it is necessary for our service to consider each sale on its individual merits. 
Afterall, a consumers circumstances can change a fair amount over time. And just because 
one product sold a number of years ago by one person mayve been mis-sold, doesnt 
necessarily mean that another product sold later by another person must therefore have also 
been mis-sold.
In this case, I didnt think the Platinum account sold in May 2007 was mis-sold, largely 
because there is strong evidence from the time to show that Mrs M specifically asked TSB 
for her account to be changed to a Platinum account (from the Premier account). Mrs M 
made no comment about this in her response to my provisional decision.
Having looked through everything, there is no evidence to suggest that the Platinum account 
Mrs M took out in 2007 was changed with advice or a recommendation provided by TSB. So 
it was up to Mrs M, not TSB, to determine for herself whether it was suitable for her 
circumstances at the time. Mrs M says that she didnt have a need for the benefits. But I 
cant reasonably hold TSB responsible for Mrs Ms decision to ask for an account that she 
now says she didnt need.  
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs M was unaware that fee-free alternatives were 
available to her. And given how long shed held the Platinum account before 2007, I think 
Mrs M had a good appreciation for what it provided.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the Platinum account Mrs M took out in 
May 2007 was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman