DRN-2864498
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about how National Deposit Friendly Society Limited          
(National Friendly) dealt with a claim against their private medical insurance policy. 
Reference to National Friendly includes reference to its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs B had a private medical insurance policy with             
National Friendly. The policy was for a ten year term, starting on 1 January 2010 and 
provided cover up to £40,000 over the ten years. Mr B, Mrs Bs son, was a named 
beneficiary under that policy. 
The policy was due to come to an end on 31 December 2019. National Friendly 
extended cover until 28 February 2020, as it was late in sending out documents relating 
to a new policy. 
In late January 2020, Mrs B contacted National Friendly about a claim against the policy 
in relation to Mr Bs injured shoulder. In early February 2020, National Friendly 
authorised a consultation and an MRI which were due to take place on                           
12 February 2020. 
National Friendly offered Mrs B a new five year policy. I understand that Mrs B didnt 
take that up when she discovered that National Friendly would exclude cover for Mr Bs 
shoulder injury as a pre-existing condition.   
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs B has very strong feelings about this matter. 
Shes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this 
carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither   
Mrs B nor Mr B will take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think is the central 
issue in the case, that is, whether National Friendly acted in accordance with the policy 
terms and conditions and fairly and reasonably in this case. 
Im not upholding Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why: 
Its common ground that Mrs B made a claim in relation to Mr Bs shoulder injury 
when her 10 year policy was in force. In February 2020, National Friendly authorised 
a consultation and an MRI in relation to Mr Bs shoulder injury. It didnt authorise 
everything that it could authorise under the policy until the treatment of Mr Bs 
shoulder was complete. 
It would be unusual for an insurer to confirm cover for everything required to treat a 
certain condition, as it wouldnt know at the outset exactly what was required or how 
long the treatment would take. Its not unusual for insurers to authorise treatment 
step by step. I dont think that was something National Friendly should have brought 
to Mrs Bs attention at the outset, when she first purchased the policy. 
In general, an insurer is entitled to decide the terms on which it is willing to offer 
cover. The terms and conditions of Mrs Bs 10 year policy contained the following:
9. What happens when the term ends?
[] National Friendly guarantees to offer continued cover but you will need to 
complete a continued personal medical exclusions application and may be subject to 
additional underwriting requirements. Cover for any pre-existing condition(s) may be 
subject to medical exclusions or your premium for these could increase significantly. 
[]
I understand that National Friendly sought to exclude Mr Bs shoulder injury as a  
pre-existing condition in the offer of renewal. It was entitled to do that.
There are no grounds on which I could fairly direct National Friendly to deal with       
Mr Bs claim under the policy that has expired or not to exclude claims relating to    
Mr Bs shoulder injury from the new policy it offered to Mrs B. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman