DRN-2537211
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC treated him unfairly after he called to discuss his 
credit card account.
What happened
Mr M took out a new loan with Lloyds in January 2020. The loan was intended to repay 
Mr Ms existing loan and consolidate two credit card debts, one with Lloyds. 
A short time later, Lloyds sent Mr M a letter about a 0% interest rate offer available for 
balance transfers to his credit card. 
On 29 January 2020 Mr M called Lloyds to discuss the balance transfer offer hed received. 
During the call, Mr M asked whether it was possible to apply the 0% balance transfer 
promotion to his existing credit card balance. Lloyds said Mr M couldnt use the balance 
transfer promotion on his existing credit card debt. 
Lloyds transferred Mr M to a different person. The call handler said they could review Mr Ms 
finances to see if there was an option to give him some breathing space. They asked Mr M 
about his circumstances and he said he had recently changed jobs and had increased his 
borrowing to consolidate debts. The call handler offered to complete an income and 
expenditure review to see if they could suspend interest on Mr Ms accounts for between 
three and six months. 
Mr M asked what options were available at that point and the call handler said they could 
waive interest on his Lloyds accounts, including his credit card, for 30 days to provide some 
breathing space. They also arranged to send Mr M the income and expenditure assessment. 
On 7 February 2020 Lloyds reviewed Mr Ms credit card and decided to reduce the credit 
limit to £4,800. Mr M complained and said the decision was unfair and had also impacted his 
credit score. 
Lloyds responded on 11 February 2020 but didnt agree an error had been made. Mr M 
repaid the outstanding credit card balance in April 2020. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Lloyds had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has told us he wasnt experiencing financial difficulties when he contacted Lloyds on 
29 January 2020, but wanted to discuss reducing his borrowing costs after taking out a new 
loan. I understand Mr M was surprised when Lloyds later reviewed his credit limit and took 
the decision to reduce it. But, having listened to his call with Lloyds on 29 January 2020, I 
havent found Mr M was treated unfairly. 
During the call, Lloyds explained that balance transfer promotions could only be applied to 
debts with other businesses. Lloyds couldnt apply the 0% interest promotion to his existing 
credit card debt. So there was never an option for Mr M to use the promotion he called about 
to reduce the interest rate of his Lloyds credit card. 
Lloyds asked Mr M about his finances at the time of the call. Mr M explained he had recently 
changed jobs and had taken out a consolidation loan to try and reduce his borrowing costs. 
Lloyds call handler explained it could look at providing some longer term breathing space by 
reviewing Mr Ms finances, but that it would take around 45 minutes to complete. Mr M asked 
what could be done without taking that step and was told a 30 day hold could be placed on 
his accounts. The call handler said no interest would be applied to his credit card, loan or 
overdraft during this period and Mr M agreed to proceed. Having listened to the call, I didnt 
find that Mr M was mislead by the call handler. 
Lloyds has told us an account review was carried out on 7 February 2020 which resulted in 
the credit limit being reduced to £4,800. As the investigator has said, Lloyds terms allow it to 
change a card holders credit limit at any time. So, whilst I understand the decision to reduce 
Mr Ms credit limit was a surprise, Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with the terms. 
When Lloyds carried out its review on 7 February 2020 it also withdrew the balance transfer 
offer. I understand Mr M feels this was unfair, but the terms also say Lloyds can change the 
interest rates available so Im unable to agree it made a mistake or treated him unfairly. 
Mr M says Lloyds decision to reduce his credit limit impacted his credit score. But I also 
think its reasonable to note Mr M had recently taken out a new consolidation loan which 
could also led to changes in his credit score. And, as Ive said above, I havent found Lloyds 
misled Mr M when it discussed his credit card options on 29 January 2020. 
Whilst I understand Mr M will likely be disappointed with my decision, I havent found that 
Lloyds misled him when he called on 29 January 2020 or that it has treated him unfairly by 
reducing his credit limit a short time later. As a result, Im not telling Lloyds to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman