DRN-3687418
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
(CGICE) dealt with a claim she made under her pet insurance policy.
CGICE are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their agents. As CGICE have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
their appointed agents here, in my decision, any reference to CGICE includes the actions of 
their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss M and CGICE. In my decision, 
Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss M had a pet insurance policy with CGICE. At the end of October 2021, Miss M needed 
to make a claim under her policy after her dog was bitten by another dog and required 
treatment. CGICE told Miss M that shed need to pay an additional premium (£54.60) in 
order for the claim to proceed - as she hadnt selected/declared the correct breed of dog 
when taking out this policy.
Miss M complained about this and about CGICE sending information relating to her 
complaint to a third party. CGICE didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint and she referred it to our 
Service for an independent review. Our investigator recommended that the complaint be 
upheld, but as CGICE didnt respond to the assessment it was referred to me for a decision.
I recently sent both parties a copy of my intended, provisional findings. As the deadline for 
responses has now passed, Ill now consider the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
I note that Miss M has raised concerns about how CGICE handled her personal data when 
responding to her complaint. Miss M hasnt yet shown any evidence of how shes lost out or 
that shes suffered detriment because of this error. Generally, any issues relating to data 
processing would be best dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office (The ICO). Ill 
not comment further on these issues in this decision. My decision also wont make any 
directions on CGICE changing their online application process as Miss M has suggested - as 
thats beyond my remit.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
CGICE thinks Miss M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she answered that her dog was a mongrel when taking out this policy.
Ive looked at screenshots CGICE say are representative of what Miss M wouldve seen at 
that time. On balance, I find that Miss M didnt take reasonable care when answering this 
clear question about the breed of the dog. I say this because:
The options available were to select the specific breed, cross breed, or mongrel
A vet has recorded the dogs breed as a lurcher and
Miss M herself has described the dogs father as a greyhound and his mother as a 
mix of two other breeds.
On balance, the most appropriate answer to the relevant question wouldve been cross 
breed rather than mongrel.
CGICE has provided evidence (underwriting criteria) that shows if the question been 
answered correctly, theyd still have provided cover but charged a higher policy premium of 
around £54. This means Im satisfied that Miss Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
CGICE hasnt been clear in how theyve classified Miss Ms misrepresentation here. I note 
from the final response letter dated March 2022 that there are references to CIDRA and 
deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. But I consider it to have been a careless 
misrepresentation - rather than deliberate or reckless. I say this because I believe it to have 
been a mistake by Miss M rather than an attempt to deliberately misrepresent the breed of 
the dog or risk she wanted to insure. Im also persuaded by Miss Ms testimony around the 
dogs parents and their breeding:
His father is a greyhound and the mother a mixed breed, we have the photos of 
them (both still alive) and we are in contact with their owner  to me this means 
[dogs name redacted by Ombudsman] is a mix of at least 3 breeds...
Ive then looked at the actions CGICE can take in accordance with CIDRA. As a claim had 
been made here, under CIDRA, CGICE couldve settled the claim proportionately. Instead, 
CGICE asked Miss M for an additional premium before they would progress the claim. I dont 
find that CGICE treated Miss M fairly, reasonably or in line with CIDRA here. I note that 
CGICE have referred to the policy terms as justification for taking this option, but in this 
scenario as theyre relying on CIDRA  the law takes precedent over the policy terms.
For completeness, CGICE could have offered the option of paying an alternative premium - 
but they should also have made Miss M aware that they could settle the claim 
proportionately. This is important as CGICE are relying on CIDRA here, but charging a higher  premium where a qualifying, careless misrepresentation has occurred isnt listed as 
an option under CIDRA in this scenario.
As the experts in this business relationship with Miss M, I find CGICEs language and tone to 
be borderline cynical and not in the interests of being transparent. To elaborate further, 
offering Miss M the option to pay an additional premium to progress the claim wasnt 
necessarily unreasonable. But when Miss M made it clear that wasnt what she wanted to do 
- not making it clear that she could choose to have the claim settled proportionately wasnt in 
the interests of treating her fairly or reasonably.
To bring this to life with examples, the wording used in the final response letter was:
Please note that we will be unable to finalise your claim until the outstanding 
balance is settled.
As another example, in emails from CGICE to Miss M, they stated:
The policy remains invalid until the discrepancy has been resolved and we will be 
unable to process the claim until the outstanding balance has been settled; and
Before we can continue with your claim, we would require a card payment to bring 
your policy up to date.
The above could be interpreted as an attempt to pressure the customer into paying a higher 
premium.
Putting things right
1- I direct Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to now consider the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and give Miss M the option of either:
opaying the additional premium (as this was already on the table); or
osettling this claim proportionately.
Miss M responded to my provisional decision outlining that her preference was to accept the 
proportionate settlement amount. 
2- The final response letter suggests that this claim was at the stage of being finalised. 
Should it be a claim that CGICE is settling (in line with the policy terms, limits and 
relevant excesses) they also need to add 8% simple interest from the date Miss M 
paid the vet (subject to reasonable proof) until the date any claim settlement is paid 
to her.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. CGICE accepted the decision but 
said their outlay would be limited to a 100% mark-up limitation. We asked CGICE for 
evidence their research to show the price of the medication being claimed for. 
Theyve provided supporting snippets of their internal system. Ive considered this  
alongside my own research online (to test what CGICE told us) and Im satisfied 
theyre acting fairly and can rely on the relevant policy limitation:
Section 11 - General Exclusions
 Vet Fees will only be paid if they are: - Reasonable; and Essential for Your 
pets health and well-being. We may limit any payment to a maximum mark-up of 100% for veterinary Treatment, medication and dispensing fees. Blood 
sampling charges will be capped at the UK market average.
3- Given that CGICE have avoidably delayed this claim progressing, I direct them to pay      
Miss M £200* to recognise the impact of their actions on her and the avoidable 
trouble and upset caused. Id also remind CGICE of their obligations under ICOBS:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
When coming to this figure Ive also kept in mind that our Investigator pointed out the 
remedies available under CIDRA in her assessment dated 16 July 2022 - yet no response 
was provided by CGICE nor any attempt made to settle the outstanding claim since.
*Ive noted that CGICE have not engaged or responded with our Service on this complaint 
since our Investigators assessment. If the compensation of £200 is not paid to Miss M within 
28 days of the date this final decision is issued, I further direct CGICE to add 8% simple 
interest to this amount (£200) until the date payment is made to Miss M.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to 
follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman