DRN-1928601
 
The complaint
Ms W, represented by her daughter Ms R, complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to 
inform her that she'd be able save money by switching her investment into a cheaper share 
class.
What happened
Ms R called Scottish Widows in November 2019 to discuss her mother's investment. During 
this conversation there was discussion of the associated charges and Ms R was made 
aware a new 'P Class' share had been introduced that Ms W could be moved into to avoid 
paying further charges.
Ms R asked for the change to be made but was unfortunately misinformed about how it 
would be done. This was discovered a few days later when she queried the situation and 
the switch completed.
A complaint was made to Scottish Widows because Ms R felt Ms W should've been 
informed when the cheaper share class became available. Scottish Widows explained that it 
had not proactively informed investors of the new share class unless they had made a 
change to their investment, which Ms W hadn't done. It therefore didn't consider it had acted 
incorrectly, other than misinforming Ms R about how the switch would be made, for which it 
offered £75 compensation.
Ms R referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator didn't think it should be 
upheld. She explained that she felt it likely Ms W had received advice when she originally 
took out the investment in 1999 and described how there'd been several changes since then 
in how advice was charged for. This had included a major change in 2012 when 
there'd been a shift from advisers receiving commission to being paid fees up-front by 
customers. This had led to the introduction of different share classes, the charges for which 
reflected these new arrangements. But the investigator said she didn't feel that there'd been 
a requirement for Scottish Widows to inform investors of the new share classes. 
Ms R didn't accept this. She said she accepted that Ms W had received advice originally, but 
that Ms W would've felt this was still ongoing, and as she was still effectively paying a fee, 
she should've been advised about the new share class. She said there was a lack of 
transparency and Ms W had been left to her own devices, unable to make an informed 
choice. 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter's been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate why Ms R feels frustrated that her mother has been disadvantaged by the 
charging changes. Clearly it would've been better for her to have been told about the 
introduction of the P share class when it was introduced in 2017, so she could've switched 
then and made savings sooner. 
But throughout the course of all the changes made since Ms W first invested in 1999 there 
hasn't been a regulatory requirement to pro-actively inform all customers of every change 
that might affect them. There is a general requirement for businesses to act fairly and that's 
one of the reasons why many, Scottish Widows included, have made commercial decisions 
to take steps like ensuring customers are informed of new share classes when they make 
changes to their investments, or to make adjustments to charges associated with particular 
share classes and pay refunds where relevant - as happened with the refund Ms W received 
when Scottish Widows backdated charges on the A share class she had been invested in 
until her switch to the new P class.
So, in all the circumstances, while Scottish Widows could have done more to keep Ms W 
informed about the new shares class, I don't think it's the case that it should have done 
more. And, as such, I don't feel I can uphold the complaint. As an aside, I think the offer 
of £75 for the misinformation about how to switch is fair. 
I note that Ms R has concerns that Ms W was effectively left to her own devices following the 
initial advice and that doesn't seem fair given the ongoing charges being applied to her 
investment in part paid for the advice. But that would've been for the original advice to start 
the investment, not for ongoing reviews. While I understand that it won't be of any great 
comfort to Ms R or Ms W, if new advice had been sought in recent years by Ms W it may 
have resulted in the share class being changed sooner, but it would also probably have 
involved the payment of fees for that new advice, because of the changes that took place in 
2012. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman