DRN-3138922
The complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France IARD, 
as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr M bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered him in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr M and AXA a provisional decision on 1 October 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think AXA need to do anything further here  Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked through AXAs records, and from what I can see Mr M never actually paid any 
premiums for this particular PPI policy. I cant see any record of him paying any PPI 
premiums, and according to the electronic data for his card the total PPI premiums he paid 
comes to £0. 
This may be because Mr M cancelled the policy within its cooling-off period, for example. 
Indeed, that may help explain why he no longer remembers ever having it.
Mr M has raised concerns about the way his policy was sold, which is understandable given 
the widely-publicised problems with some PPI policies. But even if I were to find that AXA 
had mis-sold this policy, there doesnt seem to be anything for me to tell them to refund here.
Lastly, I understand that Mr M is unhappy with the way his complaint was handled. However, 
Im afraid I wouldnt be able to consider those points, as I can only decide complaints about 
regulated activities  such as the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a 
regulated activity in and of itself. So while Im sorry to hear about the troubles Mr M had with 
the complaints process, I cant consider those points. Further, I understand that many of 
Mr Ms points concern what the lender did in handling his complaint, rather than AXA. And 
I should also clarify that, broadly speaking, I can only hold AXA responsible for things that 
AXA did in that regard  and not things that the lender did.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
29 October 2021. AXA didnt add anything further. Mr M made some further comments, 
which Ill talk through below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M reiterated that he was unhappy with how the lender had handled his complaint, 
particularly with how they couldnt find the PPI policy at first. But Im afraid that as I explained 
in the provisional decision, those points are outside of our jurisdiction. And this complaint is 
against AXA, rather than the lender.
Mr M provided some documents relating to a PPI policy for a mortgage. But that was a very 
different policy to this store card PPI, so Im afraid those documents arent relevant here.
Mr M expressed some disbelief that he hadnt been charged any PPI premiums. He pointed 
out that these days, he spent a fair amount on his credit card without carrying over an 
outstanding balance.
That may in fact help explain why he was never charged for PPI. This PPI policy was only 
charged as a percentage of the outstanding balance that was carried over each month. So if 
Mr M had been paying off his card in full regularly, there wouldve been no outstanding 
balance and so he would not have been charged anything for PPI. There are also other 
possibilities, such as that he cancelled the policy within its cooling-off period.
In any case, based on the relevant records its apparent that Mr M didnt actually pay 
anything for this PPI policy. So theres nothing for me to tell AXA to refund, even if I were to 
find that the policy had been mis-sold.
As such, I do not require AXA to do anything further in this particular case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman