DRN-4279130
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as 
Cashplus Bank) wont refund payments he didnt make.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns unauthorised payments. However, in line with 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Mr S failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
his personalised security details safe. To support that, its pointed out how he shared 
two one-time passcode (OTPs) with a third party.
Ive reflected on the circumstances that led to Mr S taking these steps. Hes 
explained he received a call from someone who said they were from Cashplus. He 
said that because it was a London number, and they knew some personal 
information about him, he trusted the call was genuine. 
He recalled being told about attempted suspicious transactions, which he remembers 
seeing on his banking app. They explained that to stop these, hed need to provide 
OTPs theyd send to him by text. He read these out after seeing them from the 
preview banner on his phone  so he didnt take in the details of the messages or the 
warning not to share them with anyone. 
Having considered these circumstances carefully, Ive not persuaded Cashplus has 
shown he acted with very significant carelessness to conclude he failed with gross 
negligence. I can see how Mr S trusted the call was genuine and how he wouldve 
been further reassured by the timing and sender of the text messages  he believed 
he was talking with Cashplus and messages came through from them when he was 
told to expect them. 
And I dont think it sounds implausible that an OTP might be needed to cancel a 
payment  after all, OTPs are genuinely used for lots of different purposes, and I 
wouldnt expect Mr S to be an expert on Cashpluss protocols for stopping fraud. 
Im also mindful that he was acting in the heat of the moment when he was 
concerned about protecting his account from fraud. So, while its possible to be 
critical of Mr Ss actions with the benefit of hindsight, in the circumstances of this 
cleverly deceptive and sophisticated scam, I dont think he seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk. Indeed, I think lots of other people wouldve acted the same way he did. 
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider Mr S can be fairly held liable for 
these unauthorised payments and Cashplus needs to put things right  by refunding 
his losses from the payments. 
Cashplus should have restored Mr Ss account much sooner. So I also award 8% 
simple interest per year to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited must:
Pay Mr S the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
refunded  I understand this to be £3,673.99.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman