DRN-3703173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started to charge them for 
their Gold account, when they say it had been previously agreed that they would not have to 
pay the monthly fee.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have explained that in 1972 Mr P won a competition the prize for which they 
say was free banking for life. 
In 2020, Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs P and said it would begin to charge Mr and Mrs P for 
their Gold account. They queried this in branch of Lloyds and say they were told that they 
could disregard this letter as their account was marked as no fees. Fees were charged in 
September 2020 so Mr and Mrs P contacted Lloyds again to query this. Lloyds in response 
stated that as long as Mr and Mrs P kept a balance of £2,000 in their account they would not 
be charged the monthly account fee going forward. Lloyds also refunded the account fees 
that had been charged.
The following year Mr and Mrs P received a letter which explained that their fee waiver was 
going to be withdrawn and that they would be charged for their account going forward. They 
queried this with Lloyds and they were told that they were going to be charged a monthly 
account fee going forward.
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators considered 
what Mr and Mrs P and Lloyds had said and provided and they felt that Lloyds need not do 
anything to put matters right.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I believed that this complaint should be 
upheld. An extract of my provisional decision is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the competition win, firstly I should say that is difficult for me to say that Lloyds 
has breached what was promised during the competition win as there is little evidence on 
exactly what the promise was. For example, what is meant by free banking or no fees? 
Does Lloyds have to offer Mr and Mrs P a fee free current account or a specific account? It 
is not clear
. 
The account that Mr and Mrs P now have was not available in 1972 and when the Gold 
account was first launched, it certainly did not come with a range of insurance benefits as it 
does now. So it is difficult to say that Mr P was specifically promised that he could have the 
Gold account free for life, or that he would not have to pay any fee for any account that 
Lloyds were to offer in the future, including ones that came with insurance benefits as the 
current one does. I would also point out that Lloyds does still offer fee-free current accounts 
that are available to Mr P, so Mr P is still able to have an account with Lloyds that does not 
incur a monthly fee just to have the account. I should also add that the enforcement of a 
competition win is not a regulated activity so is generally not something this service can 
comment on. So overall in relation to this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint I am unable to 
say that Lloyds has done anything wrong.
The next aspect of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is the removal of the fee waiver and the 
subsequent information provided by Lloyds, when they first complained in 2020.
Lloyds has not been able to provide the terms and conditions from the time that the account 
was taken out. But the earliest full terms and conditions that I have been able to obtain 
explain that Lloyds can vary the fee structure or introduce new fees with sufficient notice. 
Overall, I think that it is more likely that the terms and conditions from the time of the sale 
also wouldve contained a similar variation clause, as it is a standard term in most accounts.
So I think that Lloyds did have the provision to change the fee waiver. As to whether it is fair 
for Lloyds to do this, it is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it 
provides and also which ones to discontinue. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs P are dissatisfied by this, especially as they have been a 
customer of Lloyds for many years, I am unable to say that Lloyds decision to remove this 
feature of the Gold account is not one they are unable to make. Im also mindful that when 
Lloyds withdrew the fee-waiver feature in 2021 it is my understanding that they did so for all 
account holders, not just for Mr and Mrs P. So I dont think Mr and Mrs P were unfairly 
denied access to a fee-waiver when the decision to withdraw it was made. 
 
However, when making such changes to accounts, Lloyds is obliged to give notice to its 
customers. From what Mr and Mrs P and Lloyds have provided, it seems that Lloyds did give 
Mr and Mrs P reasonable notice of the withdrawal of the fee-waiver.
It is clear though that Lloyds response in 2020 does suggests that the fee waiver would 
remain in place. When incorrect information is provided to a consumer, I need to consider 
what would have happened if they were given the correct information and try and put the 
consumer back into this position. What we cannot do is put a consumer back into the 
position that they would be in had the incorrect information actually been true. So I cant ask 
Lloyds to reinstate the fee waiver because it incorrectly intimated that the fee waiver was a 
permanent feature of the account. Had Mr and Mrs P been given the correct information in 
2020 that the fee waiver could be removed, I cant see what they would have done 
differently. So I cant say that this error caused an actual financial loss. That said I do think 
that this misinformation caused a measure of distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs P. 
So I think that Lloyds should pay them £100 to reflect this.
I note that Mr and Mrs P may not be happy with this decision as they strongly believe that 
Lloyds should honour the competition win. But I should highlight that this service is an 
informal dispute resolution service who needs to decide cases on what is fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of the complaint. 
Additionally, we must base our decision on the available evidence and considering what is 
most likely to have happened where evidence is unavailable or disputed. In this case we do 
not have the full details of what was promised in 1972. And I find it unlikely that Mr P was 
promised any account free for life including ones that came with insurance benefits. So I 
cant say that the agreement was breached by Lloyds starting to charge an account fee 
almost 50 years later for an account that was not available in 1972.
 
Ultimately, I dont think that Lloyds needs to reinstate the fee-wavier that was in place but I 
do think that Lloyds provided Mr and Mrs P with misinformation in 2020 for which £100 is 
merited.Lloyds responded to this provisional decision agreeing with my proposed outcome. Mr and 
Mrs P responded with a number of additional points. These can broadly be summarised as 
the following
Lloyds had an agreement with Mr and Mrs P where no fees were ever to be charged 
on their current account. 
Lloyds does not have the power to change this agreement.
That the £100 that I believed was a fair outcome to this complaint was not enough to 
make a difference to Lloyds and does not reflect Lloyds altering its agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. I note the additional points that Mr and Mrs P have raised and I would like to assure them 
that I have considered all of them. 
Mr and Mrs P are adamant that Lloyds system has something that states that their account 
should not attract fees and that Lloyds has no right to end this agreement. Lloyds has no 
records of this. All I can see from the evidence that I have been provided with is that Mr and 
Mrs P were not paying for their Gold account. Mr and Mrs P say that this was due to Mr Ps 
competition win and that the terms of this win meant that no fees would ever have to be paid 
for the account in question. Again I should stress that I have not been provided with any 
documentary evidence that sets out what the terms of this competition win were. 
My understanding is that Lloyds wrote to all account holders that had arrangements not to 
pay fees on their package bank accounts to say that it would begin to charge monthly fees. 
This was not limited to those with fee waivers. It is my understanding that Lloyds wrote to all 
account holders with agreements in which they did not have to pay fees on their accounts. 
Lloyds gave notice of its intention to do this in line with the terms and conditions of the 
accounts in question. In the absence of anything to show that Lloyds had an agreement that 
it could not ever start to charge Mr and Mrs P, and as Lloyds acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in relation to this.
That said though, Lloyds should have made it clear to Mr and Mrs P in its response to their 
first complaint that it was putting a fee waiver on their account but this waiver was a feature 
of the account that could be changed in line with the terms and conditions of the account. As 
this was not made clear I need to consider what Mr and Mrs P wouldve done differently had 
it been made clear. To explain, if a financial institution gives incorrect information, we aim to 
put a consumer back in the position they would have been had they been given the correct 
information. This is in line with our general approach of when a financial institution made an 
error to put a consumer back into the position they wouldve been in had the error not 
occurred. An example would be if a bank incorrectly told a consumer that they had a balance 
of £100 when it was in fact £10. If the consumer then makes a payment that caused bank 
charges, as they believed their balance was higher than it was, we generally would aim to 
ask the bank to refund the charges. What we would not generally do is ask the bank to make 
the consumers balance £100. As this is not correcting the initial mistake. 
Considering this carefully, I dont think that Mr and Mrs P would have done anything 
materially different had it been made clear that the fee waiver could be removed in the 
future. I also cant see that the misinformation in itself caused an actual financial loss. I say 
this because when the fee waiver was removed it was done with enough notice for Mr and Mrs P to decide whether to keep the account or to downgrade their account to a fee free 
account.
In relation to the amount of compensation that I recommended, I would like to reiterate that 
the £100 was awarded because I think Lloyds should have made it clearer in 2020 that the 
fee waiver was subject to change, in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Again, I think had it been made clear to Mr and Mrs P that the fee-waiver could be changed 
in the future, I cant see what Mr and Mrs P wouldve done differently or that this 
misinformation caused an actual financial loss, as they were still able to benefit from the 
packaged account without paying the monthly fee - as they had done for many years before 
that point.
 
Therefore, I think that £100 is a fair amount for Lloyds to pay for this error as it is a payment 
to reflect the distress of not being told that the fee waiver could be removed in the future. I 
should highlight that this was not an award for Lloyds removing the fee waiver or starting to 
charge Mr and Mrs P for their account. I should also explain that we are not the regulator of 
the financial service industry so we are not able to punish or fine a business. 
I note that Mr and Mrs P will not be happy with this outcome. But this decision represents the 
last stage in this services process and there is no further recourse to discuss the merits 
further. That said Mr and Mrs P may be able to pursue their complaint elsewhere such as 
court if they wish to do so.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) to pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation for 
failing to make it clear that the fee-waiver feature of the account could be removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman