DRN-2717949
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund disputed 
transactions worth £150,000. 
What happened
After suffering a severe brain injury in an accident, in April 2016 Mr B received a payment 
from the criminal cases compensation scheme for just over £400,000 into his Halifax bank 
account. He explains that prior to this payment his Father told him hed gained Power of 
Attorney over his Halifax bank account. And between April 2016 and September 2018 Mr B 
didnt have access or control over his Halifax bank accounts. In September 2018 Mr B 
visited a Halifax branch and regained control of his bank accounts by ordering a new card 
and PIN  and obtained access to his online banking for the first time. On reviewing his 
accounts in June 2019 he noticed account activity which he didnt authorise  including two 
transfers of £75,000 each to his Fathers account in April 2016. 
Mr B says that on noticing these transfers he contacted Halifax to raise a dispute. And asked 
Halifax to return the funds to him. 
Halifax looked into Mr Bs complaint but they didnt uphold it. They said that there was no 
evidence of any unauthorised access to Mr Bs account  and on balance they thought Mr B 
authorised the disputed transactions. However they agreed the service theyd provided 
wasnt sufficient and paid him £150 in compensation.
Mr B didnt accept Halifaxs response so referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. They concluded 
that they didnt think Mr B authorised the disputed transactions however he failed with intent 
to protect his security details and therefore Halifax are entitled to hold him liable. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In summary he said:
His Father informed him that he had Power of Attorney over his account. 
He was advised that the settlement was only £267,000.
He thought he only had one account with Halifax  his Father opened the others 
without his knowledge. 
Some of the spending was carried out whilst he was out of the country. 
Hed like the £150,000 returned. 
As Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion it was referred to me for a decision. In 
reviewing Mr Bs case I came to the same conclusion as our investigator for slightly different 
reasons.
On the 3 March 2021 I issued my Provisional Decision to Halifax and Mr B and asked both 
parties to either accept or reject my thoughts and provide any further evidence. Halifax 
accepted my decision, but Mr B didnt. In summary he said:  
His Father didnt have power of attorney at the time of the two disputed transactions.
His Father also spent almost £98,000 of money Mr B was due to receive in benefits. 
He wasnt in the UK at the time of some of the transactions  and he didnt live with 
his Father. 
He suffered a serious brain injury and was taken advantage of by his Father. 
Why didnt he receive any contact from Halifax to query the large transactions?
As Mr B didnt accept my Provisional Decision Ive reconsidered my outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not changed the conclusions Ive reached in my Provisional Decision 
and Ive explained why below. 
In my Provisional Decision I said: 
Halifax have been unable to provide evidence to show that the two transactions Mr B 
disputes were authenticated  however as Mr B and Mr Bs Father explain on balance Im 
satisfied they were likely carried out using Mr Bs correct online banking details via online 
transfer. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Halifax to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Mr B authorised the transactions being made.
Mr Bs explained to our service that he suffers from compulsive behaviour, difficulties in 
thinking before he acts and short term memory loss as a result of the accident he suffered. 
Ive taken this into account in reaching my conclusions. 
And from what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that Mr B 
authorised the transactions.
Mr B maintains that he didnt carry out the two disputed transactions of £75,000 to his 
Fathers account. And Im satisfied this is the case. Mr Bs Father accepts that he made 
these transfers and I think this is likely the case based on the recipient of the funds  
himself. However this doesnt mean that I conclude that Halifax are liable for the disputed 
transactions. Ive thought about how Mr Bs Father gained access to his account  and I 
need to reach my conclusions here on the balance of probabilities. I understand that this is 
going to disappoint Mr B however I think Mr B effectively clothed his Father with apparent 
authority. When looking at the Payment Service Regulations 2009 this means that any 
transaction carried out by Mr Bs Father after the point hes given authority would be seen by 
the bank as being carried out by the authorised account holder, namely Mr B. Mr Bs 
explained that he thought his Father had Power of Attorney over his account and thats why 
he allowed him to manage his Halifax bank accounts. But he later learnt this wasnt the case.  
However, this doesnt change my thinking as to whether Mr Bs Father had apparent 
authority. I say this because Mr B confirms he was aware his Father had access to his 
accounts with Halifax  and was in charge of managing the money he received in the form of 
a settlement from the criminal compensation scheme. I accept that its unlikely Mr B knew 
the individual transactions that his Father carried out on his Halifax accounts but this isnt a 
requirement for him to be held liable. Instead as Ive explained above Im satisfied that Mr B 
allowed his Father to manage his Halifaxs accounts for him. And in the eyes of the bank all 
transactions were therefore carried out by Mr B  and consequently authorised. Ive also closely examined the transactions carried out on Mr Bs accounts to see if its clear 
that Mr B has suffered a loss here. And Im not satisfied it is. Theres evidence of significant 
funds transferred in, on a regular basis, from Mr Bs Fathers account to Mr Bs account with 
another Bank, Ill call Bank B. Mr B advises that he had sole control of this account with 
Bank B. If Mr Bs Father  as Mr B suggests  was attempting to fraudulently take his funds 
this seems an unusual thing for him to do. And instead supports his Fathers account that he 
was attempting to manage Mr Bs accounts for him after he suffered a significant brain injury. 
This was also Mr Bs understanding at the time  which again supports his Fathers version 
of events. I can also see clear evidence of significant sums being spent via gambling 
websites  which Mr Bs Father explains was one of the concerns which led to Mr Bs funds 
being managed in this fashion. 
Should the two transactions of £75,000 have triggered Halifaxs fraud detection system? 
Im satisfied that the two transactions should have triggered an alert on Halifaxs fraud 
detection system. They were unusually large and out of character based on Mr Bs previous 
account activity. However, Ive thought about what would have happened if Halifax had 
contacted Mr B. And this is difficult to determine based on Mr Bs poor memory. But I think 
its likely, as at the time Mr B thought his Father had Power of Attorney over his accounts 
and believed he was acting in his best interests, that Mr B would have asked his Father to 
respond to any questions from the bank. And therefore the transactions would still have 
been processed. Even if I didnt think this was the case, as Ive explained above Im unable 
to establish that Mr B has suffered a loss and been deprived of these funds. Therefore it isnt 
possible for me to reach the conclusion that Halifax should refund Mr B. 
Mr Bs response to my Provisional Decision: 
Mr B didnt accept my Provisional Decision and responded with a number of additional 
points. And Ive considered his response below.  
Mr B argues that his Father had access to his Halifax accounts because he lied about having 
Power of Attorney. But Power of Attorney is different to Mr Bs Father having apparent 
authority. Mr B accepts that he was aware his Father was managing his account with 
Halifax. As Ive previously explained once Mr Bs given his Father access then any account 
activity, including spending of any funds which entered the account or were carried out whilst 
Mr B wasnt in the country, would be seen by Halifax as authorised by Mr B. I appreciate that 
Mr Bs described more recently a very difficult relationship with his Father  and says his 
Father has taken advantage of him since he suffered a serious brain injury. But, for the 
reasons Ive already explained I dont think the evidence Ive seen supports this.
Lastly Ive reconsidered Mr Bs argument about the lack of contact he received from Halifax 
regarding the two £75,000 transactions. And, as I explained in my Provisional Decision, I 
agree that the bank should have done more here. The transfers should have triggered their 
fraud detection system, and the bank should have contacted Mr B. However, if Halifax had 
contacted Mr B Im not satisfied this would have led to the transfers not being processed  
for the reasons Ive already outlined. And even if I did, for me to direct the bank to return the 
funds I need to be satisfied that Mr B suffered a loss from Halifaxs failure to contact him. 
And based on the account activity this isnt something Im able to safely conclude. 
I realise that Mr B will be very disappointed but Im satisfied that the transactions were 
authorised, and Halifax dont need to do anything further here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman