DRN-3233401
The complaint
Mr Z complains about the price that Sirius International Insurance Corporation charged him 
for an international medical insurance policy in 2021.
All references to Sirius include the actions of any companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr Z holds an international medical insurance policy which renews in January of each year. 
In December 2020, Mr Z received renewal paperwork setting out details of the cover for the 
2021 policy year. He noticed that the policy premium had increased from US$2573.30 the 
previous year to US$3276.18. Mr Z was very unhappy with the level of the premium 
increase, as he said he hadnt made any claims during the 2020 policy year.
Sirius looked into Mr Zs concerns and ultimately reduced the 2021 premium by around 
US$200. However, Mr Z felt that Sirius had treated him unfairly, so he asked us to look into 
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Zs complaint should be upheld. He explained that were not 
able to tell Sirius how it should assess risk or what price it should charge to cover that risk. 
He didnt think the evidence indicated that Sirius had singled Mr Z out in any way. 
Mr Z disagreed. He said that during the five years hed held the policy, his premiums had 
risen by over 100%. Hed developed a medical condition since the policy began which meant 
that he wasnt able to look for insurance elsewhere. He felt that it was unfair that his 
premium was higher than ever in 2021, despite the fact that he hadnt made any claims 
during the 2020 policy year. He said that even taking into account the discount that Sirius 
had offered, his 2021 premium had still increased by 19%. But in 2022, following claims hed 
made during the 2021 year, his price had only risen by 7.4%. He told us that given the 
unpredictability of Sirius pricing, he was afraid of the level premiums might increase to in the 
future.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr Z, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint 
and Ill explain why. 
First, Id like to reassure Mr Z that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and his detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within this 
decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our rules require 
me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr Zs. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk. 
Sirius is entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, claims relating to Mr Zs health). And if it does, what price it needs to charge for 
that. 
So Sirius will have assessed the risk of Mr Z needing to make a claim when he first joined 
the international private medical scheme and then at each yearly renewal afterwards. If it 
thinks the risk has gone up (for example, because the risk-profile has increased or because 
health care costs have gone up), then it may need to put up the premium. 
As such then, in complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied 
to calculate the premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that 
Mr Z has been treated in the same way as any other of Sirius customers in similar 
circumstances and hasnt been singled out in any way.
It seems Mr Zs renewal premiums have increased year-on-year. And I understand that 
despite not making any claims during the 2020 policy year, his 2021 renewal price was 
significantly higher than it was the year before. I understand too that even with the 
discretionary discount it seems Sirius applied to bring down the 2021 price, the premium 
increase remained at around 19%. So I can understand why Mr Z is worried that Sirius 
hasnt treated him reasonably. 
Sirius has provided me with commercially sensitive, confidential information to show how the 
renewal price in 2020 was calculated. Im afraid that Im unable to share this information with 
Mr Z. But I hope it reassures him to know that Ive considered this information carefully. 
What I am able to tell Mr Z though are the main reasons for the price increase in 2021. Sirius 
told us that when it calculated its renewal premiums for the 2021 policy year, it took a three-
year look back at policyholders claims history. While its clear Mr Z didnt make any claims 
during 2020, I can see that he did make a number of claims during 2018 and 2019. This 
impacted on his overall claims history. And this three-year claims review was the main factor 
in the premium increase at the policy renewal. I can also see that Sirius took into account 
inflationary costs when it calculated Mr Zs premium. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Sirius has treated Mr Z in the same way it would any 
other policyholder who held the same level of cover and who was in similar circumstances to 
his own. So I cant reasonably say its treated him unfairly. I appreciate Mr Z feels that as he 
didnt need to make claims in 2020 and that as the 2022 renewal price increase was 
substantially lower, despite him making claims that year, hes wrongly been overcharged in 
2021. But considering the available evidence, Im satisfied Sirius fairly calculated the 
premium in line with the product Mr Z held. 
It's clear Mr Z feels that as hes now been diagnosed with a new medical condition, hes 
effectively been locked-in to his policy with Sirius. I can appreciate why Mr Z may not wish to 
take out a new policy, given the potential impact on ongoing cover for any medical conditions 
he already has or may go on to develop. And I do sympathise with his position. But ultimately, Mr Z has a free choice whether or not to keep the policy and whether he wishes 
to take up a new contract offer at each renewal. This means that I dont think Sirius has done 
anything wrong. And neither do I have the power to tell Sirius what price it can set in the 
future or limit the scale of any potential increase it might impose. Thats because were not 
the industry regulator.
In summary, I dont find that Sirius singled Mr Z out in any way when it calculated his 2021 
price. So I dont think its treated Mr Z unfairly and Im not telling it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman