DRN-1706003
 
The complaint
Ms P complains about how TSB Bank plc has dealt with her request to be removed from a 
joint account.
What happened
Ms P says she wanted to be removed from a joint TSB account she held with her ex-
husband. She says it was a difficult divorce and attended a TSB branch in August 2019 to 
remove her name from the account that had a zero balance. Ms P says she left the branch 
having been told that could be done. But later discovered that wasn't the case and continued 
to receive communication from TSB about the account. She says she was told that to 
remove her name, her ex-husband would need to give authority. Ms P says she has been 
badly treated by TSB and would like compensation for what's taken place and the stress she 
has been caused.
TSB says the account terms and conditions say that the account can be closed with one 
signature by one party, but to remove an account holder both parties must agree. It says it 
has told Mrs P that and has told her it can block an account which may prompt Ms P's ex-
husband into taking action to allow the name removal. TSB says the account was last 
credited in 2018 and there is a balance of just over £233.
Ms P brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought TSB had acted in line with the account terms and conditions and has given 
reasonable options to Ms P.
Ms P says she was treated badly in branch and questions TSB staff training. 
The investigator looked into the complaint again and listened to the calls between the 
parties. And came to the same overall view, and didn't think it possible to say what took 
place in the branch.
Ms P says TSB has clear failings and its notes of the meeting in branch are not clear. She 
questions why she wasn't told about the options when she attended the branch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Ms P will be unhappy 
with my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels about what took place.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Ms P would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that either party can close a 
joint account. But to remove an account holder, both of those holders need to give their 
written authority. So I don't think TSB has made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing to 
remove Ms P's name from the account in these circumstances. I'm also satisfied TSB explained that when Ms P called it, and fairly gave her what I think was a reasonable option 
of placing a block on the account. Ms P hasn't explained why she is not prepared to close 
the account. And whilst I appreciate that Ms P had previously been into a branch, I'm 
satisfied she was given the reasonable option of the account block.
I appreciate that Ms P says the account didn't have any money in it but I can see that is not 
the case and there is a balance.
I have looked at TSB's notes of the meeting in branch. Those notes say TSB was expecting 
Ms P's ex-husband to make contact with it to remove Ms P's name from the account. Ms P 
says she was let to believe that her name would be removed. In those circumstances it is 
difficult to be sure what took place. So I can't fairly find that TSB made a mistake in that 
meeting but I accept that Ms P left the branch under the impression her name would be 
removed. But in any event I'm satisfied TSB clarified the position with Ms P the following 
month and gave her the various options which I find were reasonable.
We are not TSB's regulator, and so its not our role to tell it what its processes should be on 
these issues or tell it how it trains its staff. Overall I'm satisfied that TSB has fairly explained 
what its terms and conditions are on this issue, and I can't see any reason why Ms P can't 
tell TSB to close the account. I don't think TSB made a mistake by sending Ms P a new 
account card or any form of communication as I think she is still its customer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman