DRN-3863358
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) unfairly removed 
funds from his account after a failed attempt to withdraw cash from an ATM and provided 
poor customer service. 
What happened
What Mr M says
Mr M attempted to withdraw £200 from an automated teller machine (ATM) and explained 
that he inserted his card and entered his personal identification number (PIN) but no funds 
were dispensed, and the shutter didnt open. Mr M couldnt remember if any error messages 
were displayed and confirmed that no one was near him at the time. 
Mr M notified Virgin about the problem the following day and discussed a refund. Mr M was 
concerned that Virgin wouldnt provide a temporary refund and he was told it can take up to 
28 days for the investigation into the ATM dispute to be completed. Mr M said hed be left 
without funds for several days and all that Virgin offered was a potential overdraft.
Mr M explained that he was kept waiting by Virgin because they didnt respond when they 
said they would, and he had difficulty contacting them to find out what was happening with 
the loss of his funds. 
Mr M complained about the service hed received from Virgin and their decision to decline to 
refund him from the ATM withdrawal. Mr M was also critical of the complaint teams handling 
of his situation. 
What Virgin say 
Virgin received Mr Ms notice of a problem with the ATM and advised him that the 
investigation can take up to 28 days. Virgin acknowledged that theyd let Mr M down when 
they didnt return calls or update him and later made a total payment of £130 to him. Virgin 
believed that Mr M had declined the option of an overdraft (although Mr M denied turning this 
down). Virgin carried out their investigation into the ATM withdrawal and received notice 
from the operator of the ATM that the machine was working properly, and the records 
indicated that Mr Ms withdrawal was completed successfully. The report confirmed that 
when the ATM was checked, it balanced which meant that it contained the expected amount 
of funds based on the activity carried out at the machine. Based on this information, Virgin 
declined to refund Mr M believing that hed received his funds. 
The investigation so far 
Once Mr Ms complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service, it was looked into 
by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. Mr M 
was able to explain what had happened and how the loss of his funds had affected him, 
including the poor service he received from Virgin. In the complaint, Mr M had written about 
several different issues he had with Virgin which have since been split into two separate 
complaints. This complaint relates only to the ATM withdrawal and the service issues 
surrounding it. 
Virgin provided details of their investigation into Mr Ms complaint and details of what 
happened at the ATM when Mr M used it for his withdrawal. After considering the 
information, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He thought that Virgins 
payment of £130 was a reasonable way for Virgin to recognise theyd let Mr M down and he 
thought the evidence showed the ATN dispensed the cash to Mr M. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators outcome and maintained his belief that the ATM hadnt 
dispensed his cash. He also thought that the amount of compensation should have been 
higher as it related to more than one incident. 
As no agreement could be reached, Mr Ms complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two principal complaint points here, one for the ATM withdrawal and one for the 
customer service experience. So, Ill deal with each one in turn. 
ATM Withdrawal 
Once Virgin were made aware of the issue experienced by Mr M, they contacted the 
operator of the ATM and asked them to provide details of the withdrawal and evidence that 
the ATM was operating properly. Virgin received information that showed the ATM 
dispensed the funds that Mr M asked for (£200) and they included details of other activity at 
the ATM both before and after Mr Ms withdrawal. Those other transactions appeared to also 
be successful. The ATM operator confirmed to Virgin that they had no reports of the ATM 
breaking down or being faulty at the time the withdrawal was made. 
So, I have to make my finding based on the available evidence. The reports received by 
Virgin dont indicate any problem at the time the withdrawal was made by Mr M, so taking 
everything into account, I think it more likely than not that the money was dispensed by the 
ATM after Mr M made the withdrawal request. I cant say what happened at that point, but as 
the transaction was authorised (when the PIN was entered) I think it was both fair and 
reasonable that Virgin held Mr M liable for the withdrawal. 
Customer Service 
Its apparent from Virgins response to Mr M that they let him down when they were dealing 
with his claim. He experienced delays and mixed messages surrounding the offer of an 
overdraft and was unhappy that Virgin couldnt assist him with his finances until he got paid 
again, some 10 days after the disputed transaction. 
Virgins records indicate that Mr M wasnt keen on a temporary overdraft and theyd advised 
him that the investigation into his claim would take up to 28 days (because the ATM was 
operated by another organisation), although Virgin didnt update Mr M about the claim for 
some time after this. 
I appreciate Mr M wanted temporary funds from Virgin, but as Ive already made a finding 
that I think the withdrawal was successful, I dont think that Virgins decision not to 
temporarily refund him was unreasonable.
I do recognise the lack of service experienced by Mr M here. But, I dont think its necessary 
for Virgin to specify an amount for each individual failing. I think that Virgins payment to Mr 
M of £130 is both fair and reasonable in the circumstances This addressed the various 
service issues he experienced here, and I wont be asking them to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman