DRN-1890568
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with their mortgage by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
In May 1995 Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with HSBC. The information provided 
indicates that at the same time Mr and Mrs F took out their mortgage they also took out a 
PPI policy to cover only Mr F. This policy was cancelled in April 2002.
Mr and Mrs F have now complained the PPI was mis-sold. 
HSBC said it wasnt upholding the complaint the PPI was mis-sold. It also considered if any 
excess commission and profit share that had been part of the premiums Mr and Mrs F had 
paid, needed to be refunded and when looking at this offered and paid compensation in total 
of £24.81 after tax.  
Mr and Mrs F werent happy with what HSBC had said about the mis-sale and brought their 
complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and what HSBC had said was 
fair. 
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Mr and Mrs F say they were told they had to have the PPI and the mortgage may not be 
approved if they didnt take it out. So they feel they were pressured into taking out the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs F also say they raised the issue that Mr F was self-employed when they took out 
the policy but were told they had to have it anyway.
Mr and Mrs F believe they applied for the mortgage and PPI in a meeting and HSBC has 
indicated it accepts that is most likely the process that was used. That being the case, it 
means the processes HSBC had in place for sales of this type would have required it to 
assess if the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs F. 
This means HSBC had to collect information from Mr and Mrs F about their circumstances 
and assess if the policy met their needs. HSBC would then have recommended the policy as 
being suitable, if that was the case. But Mr and Mrs F should still have been clear they had a 
choice whether to take out the PPI or not. 
As the sale most likely took place in a meeting and there are no documents from the actual 
sale available I cannot know what was actually said to Mr and Mrs F. HSBC did have 
procedures in place at the time when sales of this sort took place and without clear evidence 
that HSBC didnt follow its procedures, I think it most likely that it did.
A demands and needs form would need to have been completed and based on that HSBC 
would have made a recommendation about the PPI. Forms would have been completed 
where it was indicated the PPI had been selected. 
HSBC would have sent out a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs F after the meeting and also sent 
out information about the PPI. Once the mortgage and PPI became active a welcome pack 
would also have been sent to Mr and Mrs F for the PPI which included a copy of the 
Certificate of Insurance. This pack would have set out the costs, terms and conditions and 
indicated that if Mr and Mrs F wanted to cancel the policy they could do so with a period of 
days after receipt of the letter and incur no costs for the policy. 
By the time Mr and Mrs F received the welcome pack they would already have had their 
mortgage in place and their property purchase would have been completed. So if they had 
felt they did not want the PPI they could have cancelled it and paid nothing. 
As the PPI wasnt cancelled at this point, this suggests to me that it is unlikely Mr and Mrs F 
at the time felt very strongly they didnt want the PPI as they are now indicating. I think it 
more likely than not, that they agreed to take out the PPI at the time and knew they had a 
choice. And I have seen no clear evidence to suggest this wasnt the case.
The cover was only taken out to cover Mr F. From all the information provided Mr F was 
working full-time on a self-employed basis. Mrs M was only working part-time. Therefore, it is 
reasonable that the cover was taken out only to cover Mr F. Also, the terms and conditions 
of this particular policy were no more onerous for someone self-employed than someone in 
employment. So Mr F was eligible for the policy and would have had no restrictions on 
making a claim because he was self-employed.
In fact, I have seen nothing to show Mr F was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. Mr F was not suffering from any pre-existing medical conditions so would 
not have been caught by any restrictions or claims relating to medical issues. 
Mr F has indicated he would have had no employment benefits to cover him if he was off 
sick, so the PPI would have been useful in such circumstances. Mr and Mrs F have said they 
had some savings but if Mr F wasnt working then the PPI would have paid their mortgage 
payments, allowing the savings to be used for other household and day to day expenses. 
I dont know if at the meeting full information about the costs was provided. The cost was 
around £17.66 at the start for £300 of cover for Mr F. This premium increased slightly over 
time so by 1999 it was £17.83. Taking account of the cost and benefit, this was reasonable 
for policies of this type. And I have seen nothing to show it was not affordable. 
 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs F at the time of the sale about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take out the PPI at the time 
and I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs F off taking out 
the cover as Mr F wasnt affected by any restrictions of the policy.
In summary I have seen nothing to show the PPI was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs F. That is 
because I think it is most likely that HSBC followed its standard processes. So Mr and Mrs F 
should have known it was an optional, separate product to the mortgage and they had a 
choice whether to take it out. I think Mr and Mrs F did agree to take it out as they felt it would be of benefit to them should 
they need to claim. And as Mr F, who was covered by the policy, was not caught by any 
restrictions in the terms and conditions, further information would not have had any effect on 
their decision at the time to take out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by HSBC Bank Plc to 
Mr and Mrs F and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman