DRN-2562330
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Hoist Finance UK Limited defaulting his account.
What happened
In 2016, Hoist purchased a credit card debt of Mr Ds. He had a payment arrangement in 
place, and used a debt management company.
In April 2019, Mr Ds debt management company made a reduced payment offer to Hoist, 
owing to changes in Mr Ds circumstances. Hoist accepted the offer, but mentioned to the 
debt management company that this could lead to a default down the line.
Hoist sent arrears notices, but told Mr D they were for information only and he didnt need to 
worry about them  he only needed to carry on with his arrangement.
In May 2019, Mr D missed his payment, and sent two payments in June instead. In June and 
July 2019, Hoist sent default notices to Mr Ds home address. However, Mr D was away for 
work. He explained that the nature of his job meant he was often away from home, which is 
why hed hired the debt management company to handle things for him. But because Hoist 
had sent the notices to Mr D directly, neither he nor the company had been aware of them.
Hoist defaulted the account. Shortly afterwards, Mr D got a loan through work and cleared all 
of his debts. Mr D says that had he been aware of the impending default, he wouldve acted 
sooner. Hes asked for the default to be removed. 
I sent Mr D and Hoist a provisional decision on 6 January 2021, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I currently think it would be fairest to remove the default  Ill 
explain why.
When Hoist sent Mr D his statements, they included an arrears notice. However, on the 
cover letter, they put in bold, italicised writing that the arrears notices were for informational 
purposes only. The only action you need take is to continue with your concessionary 
payment arrangement. So they specifically told Mr D not to worry.
Their statements also seemed to be unclear about what was due. For example, Hoists May 
letter set out that £69.11 was due, but just below it said that actually £52.48 was due straight 
away  presumably to clear the arrears  but then on the next page said the total arrears 
were only £33.26. And then the cover letter told Mr D to simply carry on with his £5.17/month 
arrangement and not to worry about the arrears notice. Meanwhile, it looks like Hoist had 
defined his contractual payments based off of a previous payment arrangement with the 
original creditor, rather than the payments in his actual credit card contract. Overall, Im not 
confident that it was made sufficiently clear to Mr D about what was due, or what would or 
wouldnt lead to a default.
Hoist mentioned to Mr Ds debt management company that they might eventually default the 
account, since the new payments were lower. But it doesnt look like the debt management 
company passed on this information to Mr D until after the default had already happened. 
From what Ive seen, they simply told Mr D that Hoist had accepted his payment 
arrangement. That part isnt Hoists fault, but combined with Hoists unclear statements, 
I can see why Mr D wouldnt have thought he was in danger of a default.
Hoist sent the default notices to Mr Ds home address  which, of course, makes sense. But 
Mr D has to travel for work, and has sent us the records from his workplace showing that he 
was living far away from home during the period in question. So he didnt see the letters at 
the time. And since Hoist didnt send a copy of the notices to Mr Ds debt management 
company, they werent able to tell him about the impending defaults either. Further, across 
his contact with our service, Hoist, and his debt management company, Mr Ds testimony 
has been clear and consistent about him being unaware of the notices at the time. I think its 
most likely he really wasnt aware of them until it was too late.
Shortly after the default, Mr D was able to get help from work to clear the debt. I see no 
reason why he wouldnt have done this earlier had he known the default was coming. Hes 
also explained that had he realised Hoist were planning on defaulting him, he could have 
tried to rearrange his finances or got additional help from friends and family. Hes explained 
it is important for his career to avoid such a default, so he was motivated to do so.
As Ive said above, Im not confident that Hoist got things entirely right here. But even if 
I accept that Hoist was technically correct in the way it defaulted the account, I need to 
consider whether the default was fair in the particular circumstances of this case. Here, it 
seems Mr D had been given the impression by both Hoist and his debt management 
company that his payment arrangement had been accepted and that things were broadly 
fine. I dont think Hoist gave him clear enough information about what was due or about the 
nature of his arrears. It seems most likely he wasnt aware of the default notices at the time. 
And it seems most likely that he would have prevented the default from happening if hed 
known about it.
So on balance, I think the fairest thing to do is for Hoist to remove the default in question.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
3 February 2021. Mr D accepted the provisional decision. Hoist made some further 
submissions, which Ill go through below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hoist explained that Mr D had previously gone into arrears in prior years, and that their 
arrears notices back then did not contain the for informational purposes only wording. 
While I understand where theyre coming from, Im afraid I dont think its relevant  my 
decision here concerns what happened in 2019 in the run-up to the default and its aftermath, 
and not what happened in previous years.
Hoist also said that their August 2019 statement contained clearer information about the 
sums due. I can see their point, but I dont think that offsets the unclear information in prior 
statements. Further, this statement came after the default notices had already been issued. 
And, as Hoist appear to acknowledge, this came during the period where Mr D was away  
so he wouldnt have seen this statement at the time anyway.
Hoist explained that theyd previously been given the impression that Mr D was normally 
only away during the week. I accept that may have normally been the case, at least in the 
past. But as I said in my provisional decision, Mr D forwarded us his work records to show 
that hed been away consistently during the events in 2019, including a long stint abroad. 
I will reiterate that I dont think thats Hoists fault, and I do not consider it unreasonable that 
they wrote to Mr Ds address at the time. But even if Hoist did nothing wrong there, the 
question is whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And it doesnt seem fair for Mr D 
to receive a default where he didnt know it was coming, where he wasnt able to see the 
notice in time, and where he could have prevented it had he known about it.
Similarly, Hoist reiterated that they told Mr Ds debt management company about the 
possibility of a default. But I already explained in my provisional decision that, as far as I can 
see, the debt management company didnt pass this on at the time, and simply told Mr D 
that his payment arrangement had been accepted. Again, Im not blaming Hoist for that, but 
I need to take it into account when considering whats fair.
Hoist questioned why Mr D didnt take out the loan through work earlier. But as weve 
already discussed at length, it looks like he was given the impression that his payment 
arrangement had been accepted and he wasnt aware that a default was coming. So Im not 
sure why Hoist would expect him to take such measures if he didnt know he needed to.
Lastly, Hoist argued that Mr Ds credit file should be an accurate reflection of what 
happened. I agree. And I do not think it would be accurate to record a default where the 
customer had been given the impression that things were broadly stable, had not received 
the proper notice in time, had not had the proper chance to avoid it, and had been capable 
and willing to avoid it had they known it was coming. And to reiterate, I have not told Hoist to 
remove all historic information about this account  just the default.
So having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as before  that on a fair and reasonable basis, Hoist should remove the default 
in question.
Putting things right
I direct Hoist Finance UK Limited to remove the default thats been complained about.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint, and direct Hoist Finance UK Limited to remove the disputed 
default.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman