DRN-2328356
The complaint
Ms Ms son acting on her behalf, complains that her home insurance claim was declined 
unfairly by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). For ease of reference, Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Ms M.
What happened
On 6 October 2019, Ms M noticed that water had entered her property through her roof and 
caused damage to her bedroom during a period of heavy rain.
RSAs home emergency team attempted to help on the day she reported the problem, 
however, after visiting her property they said temporary repairs werent possible due to the 
extent of the damage. 
On 7 October 2019, RSA told Ms M that the earliest they could send a surveyor to fully 
inspect her property would be 10 October 2019. They also said she could appoint an 
independent contractor to attend her property in the meantime. However, they stressed the 
importance of asking the contractor to take photographs and detailed notes as they said the 
claim may not be covered. As Ms M had said the damage had been caused due to bad 
weather, RSA treated the matter as a storm claim. 
Due to a cancellation a surveyor was able to attend a day earlier than planned on                                                       
9 October 2019. Ms M feels this still took too long and shes highlighted the fact she was 
vulnerable due to her age and health conditions. 
Following the inspection, RSA declined the claim for both the internal and external damage 
as they said the weather conditions at the time didnt reflect a storm taking place. They also 
said the surveyor concluded that the damage was caused by gradual wear and tear and this 
type of damage is excluded under the terms of the policy. 
Ms M then provided an invoice from a roofer who had carried out some repairs to her 
property. However, this didnt change things for RSA, as they said they still werent satisfied 
a storm had taken place. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they said the claim had been declined fairly. 
They also felt the surveyor attended the property within a reasonable time period despite   
Ms Ms vulnerability. This is because they attended a day earlier than planned and they 
didnt have any earlier appointments available. 
Ms M didnt accept the investigators opinion, as she said the home emergency team told her 
they were preparing for a storm when she raised her claim. She also said the claim should 
be settled in any event, as her property was damaged, and she was insured. Finally she 
asked the investigator to listen to all of the call recordings about the claim, as she said it 
would result in a different outcome being reached. 
Our investigator didnt think it was necessary to request the call recordings, as she had 
considered the call notes RSA had provided us with instead. She also accepted it was 
possible the home emergency team had told Ms M they were preparing for a storm. 
However, she didnt think this changed her opinion, as she said the weather reports didnt 
suggest a storm had actually taken place at the time of her claim.  
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I dont think its necessary for me to listen to all of the call recordings that took place in order  
to reach a fair decision in this case. I say this because RSA have provided their call notes 
from their home insurance team and Ive carefully reviewed these to help me understand 
what was discussed. I dont have the call notes from the home emergency team, but I accept 
its possible they told Ms M they were preparing for a storm at the time of her claim. So, I 
dont think its necessary to delay this decision by requesting additional evidence about this 
conversation. Im also satisfied this call wouldnt change the outcome of the complaint and Ill 
explain why below.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only damage caused 
by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the damage can 
be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim unless it is 
able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. As such, although Ms M has a home 
insurance policy, this doesnt mean every claim she attempts to make will be successful. 
As Ms M has said the damage to her property was caused by bad weather, I would 
reasonably expect RSA to consider if a storm had taken place, as this is the closest insured 
peril that could possibly apply under the terms of the policy.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, I have to ask three questions:
 Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
 Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
 Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to conclude 
that a storm claim was declined unfairly.  
RSA havent defined what they mean by a storm in their policy. Where an insurer doesnt 
include a definition of what a storm is in their policy wording, wed generally say that a storm 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. So this is what Ive 
thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or shortly before the 
date of Ms Ms claim.
Based on my review of the independent weather reports for the location of Ms Ms property, 
Im satisfied RSA concluded reasonably that there wasnt a storm. I say this because at the 
time of the claim and during the days leading up to it, the weather reports suggest there was 
some bad weather. However, the wind speed combined with the amount of rain doesnt 
suggest the conditions were sufficiently severe to constitute a storm.I accept Ms M may have been told by RSAs home emergency team that they were 
preparing for a storm at the time of her claim. However, Im not satisfied this is sufficient 
evidence to conclude her property was subject to storm conditions. Although the team may 
have been preparing for a storm at the time of her call, this doesnt mean one actually took 
place. I also dont think this comment outweighs the information contained in the weather 
reports. This is because the reports were made by weather experts, and Ms M had a 
weather station within close proximity of her property. As such, Im satisfied the weather 
reports are the most reliable evidence of the weather conditions at the time.
I have also reviewed the surveyors report and I agree the damage is consistent with wear 
and tear rather than storm damage. Im also satisfied that damage for wear and tear is 
excluded under the terms of the policy and the claim isnt covered under any other section. 
The roofers invoice Ms M has since provided also doesnt change things as the repairs 
arent covered under the terms of the policy. 
Finally Ive considered Ms Ms concerns about the time RSA took to arrange for a surveyor 
to attend her home. Having done so, I dont think they acted unreasonably. While I 
appreciate her vulnerability and her desire to get her home repaired as quickly as possible, I 
dont think RSA could reasonably have acted any faster. I also note that they advised her of 
the timescales straight away and suggested that she could arrange for any necessary 
repairs to be carried out independently, while she waited for the surveyor to attend.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman