DRN-3043718
The complaint
Miss S complains about the supply and fitting of windows and doors to her home. She says 
the work was not completed to a satisfactory standard. Because the work was funded with a 
loan from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (which Ill refer to as Hitachi), she says it is responsible for 
putting things right.  
What happened
In January 2017 Miss S entered into a contract with a company, P, for the supply and fitting 
of windows and doors to her home. She says she was told that this would help reduce her 
fuel bills and reduce noise. She was to pay for the supply and fitting of the windows and 
doors with a loan from Hitachi, which had been arranged by P. The total cost of the work 
was over £7,300 and the loan was to be repaid over 10 years.
Miss S says that two of the windows were broken when they were installed in February 2017 
and that further problems developed over the following months. She complained to Hitachi in 
August 2017. It paid some modest compensation by way of an apology, and remedial work 
was carried out.
Miss S identified further issues from about October 2018. Hitachi does not appear to dispute 
that there were problems with the installation, and it offered to arrange for remedial work to 
be carried out or for a reduction of £1,500 in the loan balance; it also offered to pay Miss S 
£500 in recognition of the inconvenience to which she had been put. Miss S did not think this 
was enough to resolve the problems. In addition, she did not trust Hitachis proposed 
contractor to carry out the work to a satisfactory standard. She referred the matter to this 
service and one of our investigators considered what had happened.
The investigator was satisfied that remedial work was needed and that Hitachi was 
responsible for it. She thought a fair remedy would be a reduction in the loan of 30% of the 
initial loan amount, which amounted to nearly £2,200, along with the £500 which Hitachi had 
offered.
Miss S did not accept the investigators view. Hitachi said it was prepared to offer Miss S 
£2,000 so that she could arrange for remedial work, along with £500 in recognition of her 
inconvenience. The loan payments would continue unchanged. Alternatively, Hitachi offered 
to review any quotes for the remedial work that Miss S might provide so that it could 
consider whether it would be prepared to fund those repairs.
Miss S did not accept Hitachis offer or provide alternative quotes for the work. The case was 
therefore passed to me for further consideration. I issued a provisional decision, in which I 
said: 
Most of the facts here are not in dispute. Hitachi accepts that, if Miss S has a claim for 
breach of contract against P, she has a like claim against it, because it financed the supply 
and installation with a loan made under arrangements it had with P. It appears to accept too 
that Miss S does have such a claim, because the installation work was not carried out with 
proper skill and care. So, the main thing I have to consider is how that should be put right.
I will however consider too Miss Ss claim that she was misled into believing that the 
installation of the new windows would reduce her heating bills and reduce noise. She says 
that her new windows have not had that effect and that she therefore has a claim in 
misrepresentation  which again is a claim she can bring against Hitachi as well as against 
P.
A misrepresentation is a statement of fact which is not true and which induces someone into 
a contract with the maker of the statement. Whilst I think its possible that Miss S was told 
that new windows might have these benefits, there is little evidence of that, beyond her own 
recollection. Further, in the absence of measurements taken before and after installation, 
there is no real evidence to show what difference, if any, the replacement windows have 
made. In any event, I am not persuaded that this was a deciding factor when Miss S elected 
to have her doors and windows replaced, or in choosing to contract with P rather than 
another supplier.
I return then to the appropriate remedy in this case. The doors and windows have been 
installed, and I think it unlikely that they can now be removed without significant further 
disruption. In my view it would be more appropriate for remedial work to be carried out.  
Neither party has suggested that cant be done or that the cost is disproportionate.
It has not been possible to agree who should carry out the work or when, so I think that a 
sensible solution is for Hitachi to meet the reasonable costs of the work. It has made an offer 
of £2,000 and indicated that it will consider a higher sum if Miss S can show that it will cost 
more than that to put things right. Unfortunately, she has not been able to do so  although 
this provisional decision will provide her with a final opportunity to produce evidence of the 
cost of remedial work for consideration by Hitachi and by me. In the absence of such 
evidence, however, I think that Hitachis offer is reasonable.
I do not propose to suggest any reduction in the sums due under the loan agreement. It 
represents the terms on which Miss S agreed to fund the original installation, and it would 
not be appropriate to change those once the faults with the windows have been remedied.
In addition, I can see that Miss S has been put to significant inconvenience, for which she 
should be compensated. I agree that £500 is a reasonable sum to reflect that.
Neither Miss S nor Hitachi has responded to my provisional decision. Specifically, they have 
not provided alternative estimates for remedial work that is needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since there is no new evidence for me to consider following my provisional decision, it 
follows that there is no reason for me to reach any different conclusion about this complaint 
should be resolved. I agree that Hitachis offer is reasonable in the circumstances.    
Putting things right
Although Hitachi has made a reasonable offer to settle its dispute with Miss S, I will make a 
formal award. That will enable Miss S to enforce it should that be necessary. 
My final decision
My provisional decision is therefore that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should pay Miss S £2,000 so that she can arrange repairs and a further £500 in recognition of the inconvenience to 
which she has been put.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman