DRN-3160256
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with how BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera 
Financial Services (BMW) dealt with her request for an extension to an agreement she had 
with them. 
What happened
In June 2016, Miss B was supplied with a car through a regulated consumer credit 
agreement with BMW. She paid a deposit of £199, and the agreement was for 48 months 
with monthly payments of £197.19, and a final optional payment of £4,642 if Miss B wanted 
to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
On 31 March 2020. Miss B contacted BMW to ask about her options, as the agreement was 
coming to an end. She explained that the usual options werent suitable for her because of 
the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic  she wasnt in a position to buy another car or pay the 
optional final payment. BMW offered a three-month extension to the agreement, and Miss B 
completed the forms to apply for this.
Miss B didnt hear anything from BMW, and on 2 June 2020 they tried to collect the final 
optional payment. Miss B called BMW, who told her that her application for an extension 
hadnt been processed. But they processed the request while Miss B was on the phone and 
confirmed this by email the same day.
Miss B complained that BMW hadnt originally processed the extension application, that they 
didnt apologise to her for this until prompted, and that they didnt explain how to recover the 
optional final payment, or any charges associated with this. She chased a response to this 
complaint on 15 June 2020 and was told the complaint hadnt been received. So, she 
resubmitted the complaint.
BMW responded to the complaint on 22 June 2020, apologising for the extension application 
not being processed. And they offered Miss B £100 as compensation for this. Miss B wasnt 
happy with BMWs response, and brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that BMW hadnt processed the initial application for an extension, and 
she said that the attempt to take the optional final payment in June 2020 wouldve come as a 
shock to Miss B. But the money was put back in Miss Bs account the same day, and she 
didnt incur any charges or interest as a result of this. The investigator also said that there 
was no impact on Miss Bs credit file as a result of this.
So, the investigator thought that the apology and £100 offered by BMW was reasonable in 
the circumstances, and she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator, as she said the £100 didnt reflect the issues shed 
had since that offer was made. She said that BMW didnt take the payments for the 
extension, and shed received arrears letters as a result. And, because she worked for a 
financial institution, she needed to declare these to her employer  which was embarrassing. 
She also said that she had to borrow money to make the final optional payment, as she 
couldnt get through to BMW to find out if there were any further options.
The investigator said that the extension agreement required Miss B to make manual 
payments and gave the details to enable her to do this. So, BMW werent responsible for 
collecting the payments, and they acted reasonably by writing to Miss B when the payments 
hadnt been made. She also said that, because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, she 
didnt think it was unreasonable that customers had difficulties contacting financial 
businesses, because of the increase in contacts they received. So, she said that Miss Bs 
comments didnt change her view.
Because Miss B still didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss B was supplied with a car under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement which means were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. Miss B made an application for a three-month 
extension in April 2020, which BMW didnt process. And this resulted in BMW taking the final 
optional payment in June 2020 and refunding it to Miss B the same day. Miss B also had 
difficulties contacting BMW and she wasnt happy with how her complaint was dealt with.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an independent complaints handling organisation, 
and were only able to consider regulated activities. And complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity. So, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss B, I cant 
consider how BMW dealt with her complaint. Because of this, my decision will focus on the 
rest of the service provided by BMW, and what I consider to be a reasonable remedy.
BMW didnt process the agreement extension Miss B made in April 2020, until June 2020 
and after theyd attempted to collect the final optional payment. Having a payment of over 
£4,000 collected from her account, when she wasnt expecting it, wouldve been a shock to 
Miss B. And having to sort this out wouldve been stressful and inconvenient. But this was 
sorted the same day, so the impact on Miss B was short-term. And there were no other 
financial implications, for example fees or charges on Miss Bs bank account, as a result of 
this. Because of this, Im satisfied that the £100 offered by BMW was sufficient in the 
circumstances. And I wont be asking them to increase this.
Ive seen a copy of the extension to the agreement Miss B signed on 23 April 2020. This 
clearly states that the payments due in June, July and August 2020 would not be 
automatically collected by BMW and by agreeing to this extension I understand that I will 
have to make payments manually to the bank details below on the 2nd of every month, 
commencing 02/06/2020. This also confirmed that the final optional payment had reduced 
to £4,128.37 and would be payable on 2 September 2020.Given this, Im satisfied that BMW made Miss B aware of how the payments needed to be 
made, and that it was her responsibility to make them. And, when Miss B didnt make the 
payments, BMW sent her arrears letters to let her know that payments were outstanding. I 
dont think that BMW acted unreasonably by doing this. Im aware that Miss B needed to 
report these arrears letters to her employer, which was inconvenient and embarrassing. But 
this wasnt as a result of BMW failing to do something they shouldve done, or said they were 
going to do. And, as a result, I wont be asking BMW to compensate Miss B for this.
Miss B has commented on the difficulties she had getting through to BMW to discuss the 
situation at the end of the agreement. The Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented 
situation. Government advice was for people to work from home where possible, and BMW 
wouldve needed to adapt their ways of working. And this came at a time when, for the same 
reasons, BMW experienced a large increase in customer contacts. 
So, while I appreciate how frustrating this was for Miss B trying to get through to BMW, I 
dont think BMW did anything wrong because they were receiving a very high volume of 
customer contact at a time when their normal operations were disrupted due to 
circumstances outside of their control. So, I wont be asking BMW to do anything more.
Given the above, its now for Miss B to decide whether to accept the £100 or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman