DRN-1713435
 
The complaint
Mr P complains about the level of charges that Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited 
(Old Mutual Wealth) applied to his account and this impacted on the potential growth of his 
bond. Mr P also complains about the performance of his bond.
What happened
Mr P purchased a Capital and Income Bond with Old Mutual Wealth in August 2010 via his 
financial advisor. Mr P originally invested £10,000 and topped up the investment with further 
amounts of £10,000 in September 2017 and £15,000 in October 2017.  
Mr Ps initial relationship was with his financial advisor which was to provide advice on 
financial matters including recommending investments to him. The financial advisor 
introduced this business to Old Mutual Wealth. 
The financial adviser received an initial sum of 7% on any investments that Mr P made with 
Old Mutual Wealth. It is important to note these charges are not part of Mr Ps complaint and 
do not relate to Old Mutual Wealth but it is worthwhile to outline the nature of the introduced 
business.
Mr P also entered into a contract with Old Mutual Wealth with the purchase of the bond. 
These types of bonds have a number of recurring charges that cover the administrative 
duties undertaken by Old Mutual Wealth. These charges were included in the initial Key 
Features Document that was sent to Mr P in August 2010.  Mr P was also sent a Key 
Features Document for his subsequent top up investments. The amounts paid to the 
financial adviser for introducing the business were also included in the Key Features 
Document.
Mr P was advised by his financial advisor to set up an ISA in 2019 and transferred £15,000 
from his bond to fund the ISA. The fee due to the financial advisor was taken from the bond.
Mr P is not happy with the charges that have been applied and taken from his bond.  Mr P 
feels that the bonds performance has not been good and that the charges that have been 
applied have affected the performance of his bond. Mr P complained to Old Mutual Wealth.
Old Mutual Wealth considered his complaint but they did not believe that they had done 
anything wrong and referred to the Key Features Documents that they sent to Mr P. They 
also said that charges applied to these types of investments which covered the 
administrative activities incurred.  They said that the value of Mr Ps units in his bond had 
grown consistently.  Mr P did not accept their findings and referred his complaint to the 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and agreed with the business that they had 
not done anything wrong. Unhappy with the investigators decision, Mr P has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of the investigator for much the same reasons.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I wont be upholding his complaint and will explain why.
When Mr P entered into the relationship with his financial advisor his advisor would have had 
a regulatory obligation to explain the charges that applied to the services being offered. But 
as I have previously said, this complaint is not about the financial adviser. What I need to 
consider is what information Old Mutual Wealth gave Mr P when setting up his investments.  
I have seen the Key Features Documents that were sent to Mr P by the business and these 
summarise how the bond would be run and what charges would be applied.  These 
documents also state that payments would be made to the financial adviser for introducing 
the business to them. There is nothing to suggest that Mr P did not receive these documents 
so I have to conclude that Mr P received them.
One of Mr Ps complaints is that the charges applied by Old Mutual Wealth impacted on the 
performance and value of the bond. I have looked at the historical valuations of the bond and 
the performance has increased in value in 8 out of the 9 years that Mr P has held it. That is 
not to say that the performance of the bond would not have been better had the charges not 
been applied. But I think its also worth highlighting that Mr Ps withdrawal of £15,000 to fund 
his ISA has impacted on the value of the bond. 
As I have said previously, these types of bonds attract recurring charges which pay for their 
ongoing administration. It is not the job of the Financial Ombudsman Service to say what 
charges a business should apply but I dont think it is unreasonable for them to charge for 
the services that they offer. As such, I cant agree with Mr P that no charges should have 
been applied to his bond.
I have also looked at whether Mr P was advised of these charges on an ongoing basis and 
have reviewed the annual statements that were sent to him. I can see that Old Mutual 
Wealth have detailed the charges that apply to Mr Ps bond in the annual statements that 
were sent to him.
Mr P also complains about the charges taken from his bond to pay for the set up of his ISA. 
Mr P was sent an Adviser Fee Authorisation Form to complete which detailed what charges 
would be paid to his financial advisor.  Mr P signed this form and returned it to Old Mutual 
Wealth. I believe it was clear to Mr P what charges applied and how they were to be 
collected. 
Overall, my conclusion is that Old Mutual Wealth has not acted unfairly in applying the 
charges that it has to Mr Ps investments and should not be required to refund these to him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman