DRN-4309754
The complaint
Mr S complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) offered him an inferior 
dishwasher following his insurance claim.
What happened
Mr S insured his dishwasher with D&G. Unfortunately, it broke down, and upon inspection it 
was deemed beyond economic repair. This meant Mr S was entitled to a replacement.
D&G offered to replace Mr Ss dishwasher with one of the same make and with what they 
considered to be a similar specification. Mr S didnt agree, suggesting an alternative which 
he says the manufacturer confirmed as being similar.
D&G agreed Mr S could choose that one if he wanted but, because they considered it to be 
a superior model, they said hed have to make a contribution of around £400. They also 
offered an alternative which  despite saying it was also a slight upgrade  would not require 
a contribution.
Mr S maintained that he was only asking for a model which the manufacturer had confirmed 
as similar. An investigator here looked into the dispute, they said D&G had provided 
evidence to show the model on offer was a suitable replacement  and that if Mr S wanted a 
superior one then it was reasonable to ask for a contribution.
Agreement couldnt be reached so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The best place to start in cases of this nature is the policy terms and conditions. The relevant 
part of the policy Mr S has with D&G says the following of replacements:
 we will arrange to replace your product with a product of a same or similar make and 
technical specification
The test here then, if whether or not D&G have fulfilled the above policy requirement. I think 
they have, and Ill explain why. I acknowledge that technology moves on and that is why the 
policy allows some flexibility in terms of replacement products. I understand Mr Ss old 
dishwasher has been discontinued, so an exact match of it was never going to be possible.
Following D&Gs initial offer, and Mr Ss complaint, they spoke to the manufacturer who 
confirmed to them that the model Mr S was requesting would be considered an upgrade. 
They did, however, suggest another one which they thought would be the equivalent match 
 even though it was still superior in some respects. D&G agreed to accept the manufacturer 
recommendation and revised their offer, without an upgrade charge.
But Mr S maintained the one hed requested was the most appropriate replacement, and that 
being asked to contribute toward it was unfair. Mr S said hed spoken to the manufacturer as 
well, and that they agreed with him.
First of all, and turning back to the policy wording, D&G have fulfilled their requirement under 
the policy. The model they have offered is the same make and, based on the evidence 
provided (which has been shared with Mr S), has more place settings, the same number of 
programmes, is the same colour and has the same noise level. In the absence of anything to 
show otherwise, its reasonable to conclude that this is suitable  if not superior.
Secondly, the differing advice each party says has been received from the manufacturer. I 
am more persuaded by what D&G have provided because they included notes of their 
telephone conversation with the manufacturer. And while I wouldnt discount what Mr S says 
he was told, those notes also suggest the model he wants is of a much higher specification.
It's not only the notes either, D&Gs comparison document (which, as above, has been 
shared with Mr S) shows his preferred replacement has a greater number of programmes 
than the one offered. It also has a stainless steel finish and a lower noise level.
Despite being invited to do so, Mr S hasnt provided anything other than his recollection of a 
phone call to either suggest the model offered is inferior to his original, nor that the one he 
wants is a closer match to it. So, I conclude that D&Gs offer is fair and in line with the policy 
terms.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman