DRN-4350771
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr R met a woman on a dating website and started a relationship with her, communicating 
mainly via WhatsApp. The woman told Mr R she worked in finance and had made money 
from investing in cryptocurrency, offering to teach and support him to invest. She promised 
returns of up to £20,000, which he believed because he trusted the woman.
She told him to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company 
and then load the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. Between 12 April 2023 and 4 May 
2023, he made thirteen payments to a cryptocurrency exchange company totalling 
£13,208.34, using a visa debit card connected to his HSBC account.
Mr R realised hed been the victim of a scam when he was asked for more money to release 
his funds, and lost contact with the woman. He contacted HSBC because he felt it had failed 
to protect him from the scam, arguing it should have contacted him and queried the 
transactions.
But HSBC refused to refund the money hed lost. It said it was unable to raise a chargeback 
request because it didnt hold chargeback rights for third party merchants under Visas 
chargeback rules. It also said there was no reason for it to offer a refund as the payments 
were to an account in Mr Rs name.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service, arguing HSBC should have 
queried the transactions. But our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
because he didnt think the payments were unusual or suspicious. He said Mr R had made a 
payment of £83.83 on 12 April 2023, followed by payments of £713.58 and £17.74 on 15 
April 2023, and these initial transactions wouldnt have raised concerns as they were low 
value and in line with the normal spending on the account.
He accepted the amounts increased over time and that Mr R hadnt made any payments of 
similar value in the year before the scam, but he didnt think the disputed payments were so 
unusual or suspicious that HSBC ought to have intervened.
He also said there were no warnings about the cryptocurrency exchange company Mr R had 
paid and he didnt speak to or interact with HSBC staff at the time of the payments, so it 
didnt miss an opportunity to identify the payments were being made in relation to a scam.
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Hes said his mental 
health has suffered because of the scam and that he wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
payments if HSBC had contacted him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr R has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Im satisfied Mr R authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr R didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
HSBC had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr R when he 
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting Mr R from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr R 
normally ran his account, and I dont think they were. All the payments were to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange company and as our investigator has pointed out, the first three 
payments were low value and werent unusual when compared with the normal spending on 
Mr Rs account. On 20 April 2023, Mr R made two payments which totalled £2,679.39, which 
was high for the account, but the sum wasnt enough to raise concerns in circumstances 
where Mr R was paying a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange that hed paid on four previous 
occasions. So, I dont think HSBC missed an opportunity to intervene.
ChargebackIve thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Mr Rs payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr R).
Mr Rs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Rs payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that HSBCs decision not to raise a 
chargeback request was fair.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr R has 
lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think HSBC is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman