DRN-2120060
The complaint
Mr D says Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty didnt administer his request to draw down 
some funds properly. He says this led to him incurring interest and charges that he wouldve 
avoided if it had sent him the funds promptly. This also caused him some distress and 
inconvenience. 
What happened
This complaint is about a running credit account that Mr D has with Drafty. 
On 4 September 2019 Mr D requested a withdrawal of £3,100. Drafty didnt process this 
withdrawal immediately. I understand Mr D was told in a telephone call that his account was 
suspended and that it could take 3 to 5 business days for this to be resolved. He says that 
Drafty didnt provide a reasonable explanation about why this was. 
Mr D says that he informed Drafty on 6 September 2019 that he no longer needed the 
withdrawal as he had secured funds elsewhere. 
However, at this point, the draw down had been processed and Mr D received the money in 
his account on 9 September 2019. Mr D repaid this very shortly afterwards and the £5.98 
interest he was charged for the short time that he had the money.  
Drafty has said that Mr Ds account was suspended due to technical reasons and it has 
apologised for this. It has offered to reduce the interest on any further withdrawals Mr D 
makes by the £5.98 interest he was charged on this withdrawal. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that whilst Drafty may have made some 
mistakes when it processed the withdrawal request, they werent severe enough to warrant a 
compensation payment. 
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and he said that it was unfair for the interest 
waiver to apply only if he took on more debt from Drafty.  As no agreement has been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
As a starting point Drafty wasnt obliged to lend to Mr D. And whilst it clearly does aim to 
process funds relatively quickly it doesnt have to do this. 
But in any event Drafty did process the withdrawal within a reasonable time frame. It was 
processed two days after Mr D made the request for it and he received the funds three days 
later. This was the next working day because the transfer was processed over a weekend.
So whilst I accept that this situation caused Mr D some inconvenience I dont think that 
Drafty administered this withdrawal incorrectly or poorly, given when Mr D received the 
funds. So Im not upholding his complaint about this issue. 
Drafty has offered to waive some interest if Mr D decides to borrow again. Whilst Mr D 
doesnt agree with this, and I can see he may not use Drafty again, it is up do Drafty what 
goodwill gestures it makes. And as Im not upholding this complaint, I wont be requiring 
Drafty to do anything further or different here.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman