DRN-1929804
 
The complaint
Mrs B says My Finance Club Limited (My Finance) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about three payday loans My Finance provided to Mrs B between June and 
September 2019. Mrs B borrowed between £200 and £250 and each loan was due repaid 
the month after the loans were taken out. The balance on loan 3 remains outstanding.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint and thought My Finances checks for the 
loans went far enough. Mrs B disagreed. She said she had other short-term loans at the 
time, and she was late repaying her second loan, but My Finance allowed her to borrow the 
third loan. 
Mrs B asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. So, it has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
My Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that My Finance should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
My Finance has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mrs B about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £1,380. My Finance also checked Mrs Bs 
normal monthly living costs. Mrs B declared these to be £405 per month. My Finance says it 
also searched Mrs Bs credit file. Ive seen a copy of those results and there werent any 
recent adverse entries like defaults, county court judgements (CCJs) or excessive borrowing 
from short-term lenders recorded on it at the time each of the loans were taken out.
Mrs Bs history of borrowing with this lender was relatively early on  she only borrowed from 
My Finance three times over a three-month period. And even though she had to make one 
repayment plus interest for each loan, the amount would have appeared affordable based on 
the information she declared to My Finance. And there wasnt anything in the information 
Mrs B provided which would have given My Finance cause for concern, so I think it was 
reasonable of My Finance to have relied on what Mrs B told it. 
I think the time Mrs B had been indebted to My Finance and the information shed provided 
to it had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for My Finance to 
carry out. Given these, I think the checks My Finance carried out before lending the loans 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs B has told us about her situation at the time. But even 
if the information Mrs B declared to My Finance at the time of the loans may not have been 
an accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, I think My Finance was entitled to rely 
on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what My Finance knew 
about Mrs B, I wouldnt have expected My Finance to verify the information Mrs B gave it. 
This therefore means, I cant say that its done something wrong in lending Mrs B these 
loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mrs B, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint and make no award against My Finance Club Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman