DRN-4275853
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied to him through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers Limited (CBL). 
What happened
In May 2022, Mr C acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement from CBL. The 
car was around 14 years old and had travelled about 121,950 miles when it was supplied to 
him. The cash price of the car was £8,999. Mr C paid a deposit of £1,000 so the total amount 
financed on the agreement was £7,999 payable over 48 monthly repayments of £220.90.
Mr C said that within a week of acquiring the car he noticed there was a leak. Mr C said he 
contacted CBL within 14 days and was told to take the car to a garage. Mr C said he took 
the car to a third-party garage who produced a diagnostic report of the issues and provided 
CBL with a copy. However, Mr C said that CBL didnt uphold his complaint and closed the 
case because they said they didnt receive the information within 30 days. 
Mr C said he wants to reject the car and cancel the finance agreement, and added that he 
only realised whilst speaking to CBL about his complaint, that the cars mileage was 
recorded incorrectly as 48,000 on the finance agreement.
In September 2022, CBL issued their final response to Mr Cs complaint. They advised that 
the onus was on Mr C to provide evidence of the issues. However, they said as theyd not 
received any evidence of the faults, and were not able to contact Mr C, theyve been unable 
to investigate the issues and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr C brought his complaint to our service for investigation. 
Having considered all the information on file our investigator recommended that Mr Cs 
complaint should be upheld. Our investigator recommended that CBL facilitate a rejection of 
the car with a refund of Mr Cs deposit and monthly repayments, and to pay him £100 in 
compensation.
CBL didnt respond to our investigators view, so the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
Here, the car was acquired used, with a cash price of around £9,000 and had travelled 
121,950 miles. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a new or less road-worn car, and that itd likely require 
maintenance or servicing sooner than if it was younger and with less mileage. 
From the information provided Im satisfied there was a fault with the car. This is apparent 
from the diagnostic report provided from the third-party garage, advising of an oil leak and 
power steering leak and noise. Having considered the car had a fault, Ive thought about 
whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
The finance agreement and invoice confirm that Mr C acquired the car on 28 May 2022. The 
diagnostic report from the third-party garage, dated 9 June 2022, confirms there were 
significant faults with the car. This was less than two weeks after supply. The mileage on the 
diagnostic report was recorded as 121,320, which means Mr C was able to travel around 
370 miles up to that point.
Having considered the evidence provided, Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr C. I dont think its reasonable to consider that the issues 
identified were caused as a result of Mr Cs usage of the car within the first two weeks.
CBL advised they hadnt seen any evidence of the issues, and werent able to get into 
contact with Mr C so didnt uphold the complaint. CBL system notes show that the issues 
were reported to them in June 2022 and that they sought evidence from Mr C. Mr C provided 
us with copy correspondence showing that hed made CBL aware of the problems on 1 June 
2022.
I dont doubt that CBL hasnt been able to contact Mr C, and I can see that their system 
notes show they made some attempts at doing so. However, I dont think the lack of contact 
negates CBLs responsibility to ensure the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied, nor do I think it negates the evidence that Mr C provided from the third party 
garage, dated around 12 days after the point of supply, that there were significant issues 
with the car. 
Im satisfied from the evidence provided that the issues were likely to be developing or 
present when it was supplied to Mr C. Having considered the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr C, Ill be instructing CBL to put things right.Mr C originally requested a rejection of the car within the first two weeks after the issues 
were identified. This is also recorded on CBLs system notes. Had things gone as they 
should have; its likely Mr C would have been able to hand the car back within the first 30 
days. Instead I can see from the account statements that hes continued to make his monthly 
repayments.
To put things right, Ill be instructing CBL to facilitate a rejection of the car. Theyll need to 
refund Mr Cs deposit along with any monthly repayments hes made on the agreement. This 
is because the issues started within the first two weeks of being supplied the car, and before 
the monthly repayments commenced at the end of June 2022. CBL should pay Mr C 8% 
simple interest on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
CBL should remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to this 
agreement.
I think its fair to say Mr C has experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of 
the issues. So, Im in agreement with our investigator that £100 in compensation is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I uphold this complaint and instruct Close Brothers Limited to:
collect the car at no cost to Mr C
end the agreement with nothing further for Mr C to pay
refund to Mr C his deposit of £1,000
refund to Mr C all rentals for the period from June 2022 to the date of settlement as 
described in my decision
pay £100 in compensation to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience thats been 
caused as a result of the issues
remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to the agreement.
Close Brothers Limited should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
If Close Brothers Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman