DRN-2264429
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about how Ageas Insurance Limited settled a claim made under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a water leak in his home that damaged a carpet. He contacted Ageas to make an 
insurance claim. Mr B was asked to get a quote to replace the carpet, which Ageas initially 
accepted. However, it then got its own flooring specialist to provide a quote and reduced the 
amount it was willing to offer as a cash settlement.
Mr B complained to Ageas. When Ageas replied it maintained its decision to pay the reduced 
cash settlement, but said that it had made a mistake by accepting Mr Bs quote.
Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said that 
he thought that Ageas had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. But, as a 
claim handler made a mistake by confirming that Mr Bs quote had been accepted, he said 
Ageas should pay £75 in compensation. As Mr B did not agree, the complaint has been 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. These said:
Where your insurer can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but instead 
you request and your insurer agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not 
normally exceed what your insurer would have paid their preferred supplier.
So, I think that the terms and conditions allowed Ageas to offer a cash settlement for the 
amount that it would have cost it to replace the carpet itself. 
I asked Mr B for further information about what happened in this case. Mr B said that as far 
as he was aware Ageas had never described the replacement carpet and that it also didnt 
give him any information about the fitters. He said he had a preference for using a reputable 
company known to himself.
So Ive considered each of these points. Ive read the final response letter that Ageas sent to 
Mr B. This named the company that Ageas planned to use and described it as a flooring 
specialist. It also said that the company had provided its price on a like for like basis. So, I 
think that Ageas did provide these details. Im aware that Mr B asked for a more detailed 
breakdown of the costs, but an insurer isnt required to provide this. Often the exact 
breakdown of costs is commercially sensitive, as they are special rates that have been 
negotiated between the insurer and the supplier.
Mr B also said that his preference was to use his own supplier. That was permitted under the 
policy but, as the terms and conditions quoted above explain, the amount Ageas would pay 
as a cash settlement wouldnt normally be greater than what it would pay if it had supplied 
and fitted the carpet itself. This was less than Mr B would pay himself, but Im satisfied that 
Ageas was offering an identical carpet and that it had just agreed a lower amount for its 
supply and fitting. So, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to only pay the cash settlement 
amount that it offered. Ageas wasnt required to pay a higher amount so that Mr B could use 
his preferred supplier.
Im also aware that Ageas asked Mr B to get two quotes to replace the carpet. He got one 
quote, which was from the company that had supplied the original carpet. A while later, 
Ageas sent Mr B an email to say that it accepted the quote and asked him for his bank 
details to settle the claim. However, when Mr B didnt receive the money, he contacted 
Ageas to ask about the payment. Ageas then told Mr B that it had reduced the amount it was 
willing to pay as a cash settlement, as its supplier could provide the carpet at a lower cost.
So, I can see that Mr B had his expectations built up by Ageas, but Ageas was entitled to 
use its own supplier and was able to provide the same carpet as Mr B previously had. It 
made a mistake by accepting the quote and only very late in the process realising that it 
shouldnt have done so, but that didnt mean that it wasnt entitled to change its mind. 
Nonetheless, I think that Ageas built up Mr Bs expectation before changing its mind about 
how to settle the claim.
So, thinking about all of the above, I uphold the complaint in part. I dont uphold the part of 
the complaint about Ageas only offering a cash settlement for the amount it would have cost 
it to supply the same carpet, as this was in line with its terms and conditions. However, I 
uphold the part about Ageas claim handling in that it built up Mr Bs expectations by 
accepting the quote from his own supplier and then changing its mind. 
Putting things right
I think that Ageas should pay Mr B £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this 
loss of expectation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £75 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman