DRN-2719689
The complaint
Mr S complains that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline) accepted a 
settlement offer from his insurer that was too low and that they accused him of fraud.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
the insurance settlement
The terms of Mr Ss finance agreement explained what would happen in the event of an 
insurance claim, they said:
8.3 You irrevocably authorise us to negotiate with the insurers to settle any
insurance claim and to receive the insurance monies as appropriate. You will accept
any reasonable settlement we agree with the insurers.
So, when the car Mr S was financing was written off Startline were empowered by those 
terms to accept any reasonable settlement the insurers offered and Mr S would need to pay 
the shortfall either from his own funds, through GAP insurance, or a combination of both.
Startline were not responsible for calculating how much the insurers should offer in 
settlement and I think there is evidence that the settlement offer was reasonable because I 
can see the insurers offer, once the excess had been added back in, was a little higher than 
the average online valuation. And, as the terms of the finance required Mr S to accept any 
reasonable settlement I dont think Startline did anything wrong.
the default
The terms of Mr Ss credit agreement explained:
8.6 You will pay us within 7 days of our demand any shortfall between the amount of
the insurance monies received by us and the amount due on the total loss of the
vehicle. This amount shall be calculated in the same way as if the hiring had ended
on the date of the total loss and conditions 10.1.4 and 10.1.7 applied. Once you have
paid that sum, this agreement shall end.
As Mr S didnt pay the shortfall the business eventually reported a default to his credit files. I 
dont think there is evidence that they were wrong to do that as it seems Mr S didnt settle 
the outstanding balance in time.
the current balance on the account
I understand that Mr S is upset that the balance on the account has now risen significantly. 
Thats not a complaint that Startline have been asked to consider yet and if Mr S is still 
concerned about that balance hell need to refer that part of his complaint to Startline. If he 
remains concerned after they have provided a response, then he can refer the issue to this 
service.
Mr S has explained that his financial circumstances have changed significantly, I was very 
sorry to read that, and I would encourage him to talk to Startline to see how they can help. 
Given Mr Ss financial difficulties I would expect Startline to be positive and sympathetic 
when considering how the debt can be repaid in an affordable plan.
the allegation of fraud
Ive listened to the call recording where Mr S says the advisor accused him of fraud. This 
was a rather fraught call and both parties spoke over each other, I think the agent should 
have asked for more information about the GAP insurance policy and I can see this led to 
some confusion and frustration. I think Startline accepted that the call handler could have 
managed the call better and I can see that they offered an apology. In the circumstances I 
think that was sufficient.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman