DRN-3924441
The complaint
A company that I will call J complains about the support provided by Aviva Insurance Limited 
in relation to its commercial insurance policy during the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only as a summary of the events in question. Additionally, whilst 
other parties have been involved in the correspondence, I have just referred to J and Aviva 
for the sake of simplicity.
J operates as a fancy-dress shop and held a commercial insurance policy with Aviva. In 
March 2020, J closed its premises as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. And contacted 
Aviva in April 2020 seeking assistance with the policy. This contact was by phone and, due 
to Aviva having to change its own working practices at the time, there is limited detail 
regarding this call. Js requests apparently included for the policy to be put on hold  
potentially extending the term of the policy in line with the period the shop was closed. Aviva 
appears to have responded saying that payment holidays were not possible.
Some months later, J raised a complaint about the assistance that had been provided. Aviva 
did not uphold the complaint, confirmed that it was not offering payment holidays and saying 
that it had to treat all customers fairly. J referred its complaint to our Service. 
Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought that even if payment 
holidays werent possible (especially given J had already paid the premium in full), Aviva 
should have explored other options to help given the financial difficulties J was apparently in.
The Investigator noted that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had issued guidance in 
relation to actions financial businesses such as Aviva should take in relation to the policies 
they offered in light of the pandemic. The Investigator noted that J had originally contacted 
Aviva prior to this guidance being issued, but that it was already open to Aviva to take similar 
action without waiting for this guidance. And he said Aviva should review Js policy to 
consider what cover was necessary in light of the pandemic and refund any part of the 
premiums as a result of this.
Aviva responded, saying J had never asked it to consider reviewing cover. And that doing 
this for J would set a precedent with other customers. Aviva also said that the policy was a 
package, with only core covers included. Aviva did note that it was offering Liability 
Premium rebates for a period, but that it hadnt been asked to consider this for J.
As Aviva did not agree with the Investigators opinion, this case was passed to me for a 
decision. I initially emailed Aviva and explained that, as Aviva was in a position of greater 
knowledge about the policy, it should have thought about Js situation proactively when 
contact was made. I also said that it was my understanding that the policy J had allowed for 
Aviva to alter a customers premium when, during the period of insurance, the customer 
provides additional information. So, I thought that Aviva ought to have thought about Js 
circumstances more carefully and provided greater assistance.
My provisional decision
Aviva did not respond to my informal email, so I issued a provisional decision setting out 
what I thought a fair and reasonable outcome would be. I said the FCA had recognised that 
the pandemic and related circumstances could not only cause policyholders financial 
difficulties but may also have an impact on the risks posed by these customers to their 
insurers. The FCA issued several relevant guidance notes. And I considered the most 
relevant to be Product value and coronavirus: guidance for insurance firms1, first issued in 
June 2020.
I explained that this guidance required insurance firms to consider whether and how 
coronavirus may have materially affected the value of their insurance products. I pointed out 
that such an assessment would need to be made at a product level rather than for 
individual customers. This essentially meant Aviva should have reviewed the product it was 
providing against the changed circumstances impacting its target market. 
The policy J had was a shop policy, so I said it seemed likely Avivas target market for this 
product was shops  a large proportion of which would have been closed as a result of the 
pandemic. I thought that during the period a shop is closed, and potentially outside of these 
periods, the risks associated with certain parts of the policy would have been greatly 
reduced. The guidance specifically refers to public liability insurances for businesses that 
are unable to open, but I didnt think the required assessment should necessarily be limited 
to public liability insurance. The guidance is relevant to all non-investment insurance 
products that wouldve been offered to a customer like J.
I noted that this FCA guidance was issued after J had initially contacted Aviva. But that it 
wasnt clear that Aviva has acted upon it to date. I had not been provided with any evidence 
that Aviva has carried out a review of this product and the value it provides. Even if it is not 
reasonable to expect Aviva to have followed the as yet unpublished guidance in April 2020, it 
isnt clear why this had not been done by the time of Js complaint  if indeed it hadnt been.
Additionally, at the time of Js initial contact Aviva was required to take into account the 
existing rules and guidance, including the overarching Principles in the FCA Handbook and 
the requirement to treat customers fairly that arises from these. So, I considered Aviva 
should have thought proactively about Js circumstances and provided more assistance to 
explore potential options to help. Without the call recording it isnt clear what assistance was 
offered. But, based on the note of that call as well as Avivas more recent correspondence, I 
thought it unlikely that Aviva did offer any substantial assistance.
So, I explained I was minded to uphold this complaint and I thought Aviva needed to act to 
put things right. In the absence of any detail of a product level assessment, I thought the 
most appropriate outcome was for Aviva to pay J £250. This would take into account both 
the potentially change in risk relevant to the policy and also compensate for the lack of 
assistance provided.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. J accepted the proposed 
outcome. Aviva did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/finalised-guidance/product-value-and-coronavirus-guidance-
insurance-firmsreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any additional comments or evidence, and having thought about the 
evidence and arguments available to me, I consider the outcome I provisionally reached to 
be fair and reasonable for the reasons set out above. 
Putting things right
Aviva Insurance Limited should pay J £250 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman