DRN-3496858
The complaint
Miss O complains that UK Credit Limited shouldnt have accepted her as a guarantor for a 
loan.
What happened
Miss O agreed to become a guarantor for a borrower who took a loan from UK Credit. The 
loan was drawn in December 2019 for £3,000 and was to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of £167.74.
Miss O says UK Credit didnt look at her situation properly before accepting her as a 
guarantor. She says it didnt take into account her existing credit, that she was already a 
guarantor for someone else and that she lived with the people she was guaranteeing loans 
for. Miss O said that if either of them failed to pay their loans, shed be faced with an 
increase in outgoings for bills etc, as well as making payments to the loans. She says 
UK Credit shouldnt have accepted her as a guarantor and says she was coerced by the 
borrower into doing so.
UK Credit looked into her complaint. It said it had completed its usual checks and ensured 
Miss O had understood what being a guarantor meant. When doing so it spoke to her about 
her income and expenditure which showed she had sufficient disposable income to cover 
her existing commitments and the two guarantees should they be called upon.
During the course of investigating her complaint, it asked for and received Miss Os bank 
statements for October and November 2019  just before the loan was agreed. It said these 
showed that she actually had a larger disposable income than had been taken into account 
during the application process. UK Credit rejected her complaint as it was satisfied she 
understood the role of a guarantor and it felt she could afford the repayments if needed.
Miss O disagreed with UK Credit so she referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it and upheld Miss Os complaint. He felt UK Credit hadnt carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure Miss O could afford to make the 
payments should the borrower fail to do so. He said if UK Credit had, it ought to have 
refused to accept Miss O as guarantor and explained to UK Credit how he felt things should 
be put right.
UK Credit didnt agree with our investigator. As there was no agreement, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive asked Miss O for evidence that she was coerced by the borrower into acting as a 
guarantor. Im aware from what she says shes been receiving help from local 
organisations. But shes not been able to provide me with any evidence in that regard. 
Ive listened carefully to conversations Miss O had with UK Credit at the time and she 
seemed content and relaxed. I heard nothing which I think ought to have alerted UK 
Credit that she was entering into the agreement under any duress. This is not to say I 
disbelieve what Miss O has said, simply I dont have the evidence to support it.
But Ive looked carefully at the evidence UK Credit had at the time of the application and 
has gathered since. Having done so, I dont think UK Credit should have accepted her as 
guarantor for this loan. Let me explain why.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high-cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it 
didnt lend to the borrower - or accept Miss O as guarantor - irresponsibly. I think there 
are key questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint:
Did UK Credit obtain Miss Os properly informed consent before binding her to the 
guarantee and indemnity?
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss O was in a position to sustainably repay the loan if called upon?
Did UK Credit make a fair decision to accept Miss O as guarantor?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss O in some other way?
UK Credit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss O 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably if need be. Its not about UK Credit assessing 
the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact the loan repayments would 
have on her.
UK Credit has now provided details of the checks it carried out on the borrower before 
accepting Miss O as the guarantor. While I havent seen everything I would have requested 
had this complaint been brought by them, I can see why UK Credit progressed with the 
application. To be clear, Im not reaching any conclusion on the decision to lend to the 
borrower as the complaint Im considering hasnt come from them.
Did UK Credit obtain Miss Os properly informed consent before binding her to the guarantee 
and indemnity?
Ive listened to the call Miss O had with UK Credit where she was played a recorded 
message regarding her duties as guarantor. While the message itself isnt provided, Im 
satisfied it would have contained the detail required and, after the message, Miss O 
confirmed shed understood it. In any event, in my view the documentation she signed sets 
out her obligations in sufficient detail. Miss O confirmed she understood her role and liability 
as a guarantor and consented to it.
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss O 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan if called upon?
UK Credit carried out its usual process including checking Miss Os credit file, discussing her 
income and expenditure, and ensuring she understood what it means to be a guarantor.
During the course of those checks, UK Credit accepted that Miss O earned in the region of 
£1,850 per month. She lived with her parents and siblings and made a small contribution to the household bills. It was aware that the borrower in this instance was a family member she 
lived with, and she also guaranteed a loan for another. Miss Os credit file showed she had 
several credit agreements in her name totalling approximately £20,000. While these were 
being paid in line with the agreements, one  a loan to another high-cost credit provider for 
£273 per month  was taken very recently and shed only had to make two payments so far.
When UK Credit discussed Miss Os income and expenditure with her, the figures she gave 
left her with a monthly disposable income of around £55 per month after accounting for the 
repayments for this loan (if shed needed to make them). So I can see why on a pounds and 
pence basis, UK Credit felt shed be able to make the payments if need be.
Overall, I think UK Credit gathered enough information to reach a decision regarding 
Miss Os circumstances. It had a fairly good idea of her finances and, based on the figures 
she gave it, she had a small surplus of income against her declared expenditure. So Im 
satisfied UK Credit carried out reasonable and proportionate checks.
Did UK Credit make a fair decision to accept Miss O as guarantor?
While Im satisfied UK Credit gathered enough information to make a fair decision, it was 
important that it considered the information carefully to be sure she could make the 
repayments sustainably if called upon. In other words that shed be able to make the 
payments without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without 
having to borrow further.
Miss Os budget was tight  she had approximately £55 a month surplus should she be 
called upon for this loan. When her expenditure was discussed, she confirmed she had very 
little in the way of household bills to pay as these were covered by other family members. 
But this loan was taken out by a family member she lived with, as was another she was a 
guarantor for which included those who paid the bills. If they were to fail to make payments 
to the loans, it would seem likely that they would also be unable to pay their share of the 
household bills and theyd fall at least in part to Miss O. So her budget, if called upon, would 
look very different at that point.
Furthermore, she had a high level of credit - £20,000 - relative to her income. Her monthly 
repayments to credit was calculated as £767  approximately 41% of her monthly income. 
Some of this debt included credit cards where she was close to the limits but was paying 
relatively low payments of between £20 and £100 per month. Such payments would be 
unlikely to reduce the balances significantly throughout the term of this loan. And as already 
mentioned she had a high-cost credit loan herself which had only recently been taken.
Im not persuaded that Miss Os financial circumstances were strong enough to take 
responsibility for another persons liability. She was reasonably heavily indebted herself and 
had recently increased that indebtedness. If called upon, its likely her situation would have 
worsened due to her connection with the borrower and shed be unable to sustainably fulfil 
her responsibility as guarantor.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think UK Credit reached a fair decision to 
accept Miss O as a guarantor for this loan.
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss O in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think UK Credit has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss O in some other way.But I do think UK Credit should have refused to accept Miss O as a guarantor, so I am 
upholding her complaint.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Miss O in 
the position she would be in now if she hadnt been accepted as guarantor for this loan. 
UK Credit should:
release Miss O from the obligations placed on her by the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement and then terminate it;
refund any repayments Miss O has made towards the loan and add 8% simple 
interest from the date she made the payment to the date of settlement;*
Remove any information recorded on Miss Os credit file as a result of this loan.
*If UK Credit considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss O how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Os complaint. UK Credit Limited should put 
matters right for her as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman