DRN-4217812
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a car acquired with finance from Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMF) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mrs B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with SMF.
After around two weeks of getting the car, Mrs B heard a ticking noise when the heating was 
on and there was a smell of oil coming from the engine. Mrs B took the car to a local garage 
who advised her to return it to the supplying dealer.
Mrs B contacted the broker, who arranged for the supplying dealership to inspect the car and 
carry out repairs. A diagnostic report dated November 2022 found several faults with the car.
The supplying dealer didnt complete repairs, so Mrs B raised a complaint with SMF in 
January 2023. 
In its final response, SMF said that the broker had confirmed that the supplying dealer had 
agreed to complete the repairs on the car.
No repairs were carried out, so Mrs B complained to SMF again and brought her complaint 
to this service.
SMF said that because the supplying dealer had agreed to carry out repairs but had then 
failed to do so, it was supporting a rejection of the car. Following this, the broker contacted 
SMF and said that the supplying dealer hadnt heard from Mrs B since the car was acquired. 
The supplying dealer asked if Mrs B would contact them so that the issues with the car could 
be discussed and the car booked in for repairs. Mrs B said she would prefer to take the car 
to a third party garage for repairs. SMF advised Mrs B that there was no obligation on the 
supplying dealer to authorise third party repairs.
Since Mrs B brought her complaint to this service, the car remains unrepaired. Mrs B wants 
to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that although SMF had explained to Mrs B 
that the supplying dealer could carry out the repairs in April 2023, this was over 5 months 
after the issues had been found and 3 months since the issues had been reported to SMF. 
The investigator said that given the delays Mrs B had already experienced, it was fair for Mrs 
B to reject the car.
SMF responded and said it had liaised with the broker and the supplying dealer and it 
wanted to offer repairs as an alternative solution. It said it would provide a courtesy car for 
the duration of the repairs and reimburse Mrs Bs monthly rentals.
The investigator put SMFs offer to Mrs B. But Mrs B said she wasnt happy to accept 
repairs. She said shed been without use of the car for over 6 months and felt that SMF 
shouldve resolved things sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mrs B was around 8 years old and had covered around 90,000 miles. So 
its reasonable to expect that the car would already have some wear and tear and that it 
would require repairs and maintenance sooner than a brand new car.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within the first 6 months of the 
point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply 
and its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues which Mrs B experienced with the car. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there are faults with the car. I say this because 
the diagnostic report dated November 2022 identifies several faults with the car.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
The faults were diagnosed around a month after Mrs B got the car. So  under the relevant 
legislation - its assumed that the faults were present or developing at the point of supply. 
The faults diagnosed are significant faults and based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the faults. 
The faults havent yet been repaired, despite the supplying dealer having said that it would 
carry out repairs. And although the supplying dealer has offered to repair the faults more 
recently as an alternative resolution to that proposed by the investigator, I think, given the 
length of time that has now passed that its fair to say that the business has had more than a 
reasonable opportunity to repair the faults. Because of the length of time that has passed 
with Mrs B being unable to use the car because of the supplying dealers failure to carry out 
repairs, I think its fair that Mrs B is allowed to reject the car. 
Putting things right
Mrs B hasnt been able to use the car since January 2023 because of the faults. I dont think 
its fair that Mrs B should have to make monthly repayments for a car shes been unable to 
use. So Im asking SMF to refund all monthly payments made by Mrs B since 1 January 
2023.
Its clear that the problems with the car have had a significant impact on Mrs B. Because 
shes been unable to use the car, shes had to rely on friends and family for lifts and had had 
to pay for public transport that she otherwise wouldnt have had to use. This has caused Mrs 
B distress and inconvenience in getting her children to school and herself to work. Having 
considered the impact that being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality has 
had on Mrs B, I think its fair to ask SMF to pay compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs B
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution of £700
Refund all monthly payments from 1 January 2023 to the date of settlement
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all refunded amounts from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file in relation to the agreement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman