DRN-2900577
The complaint,
Mr T complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS) unfairly applied a marker on 
a car, that it had no interest in, causing him to lose a sale hed arranged for that car. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr T acquired a car via a hire purchase agreement with TFS. He transferred his 
private number plate from his original car on to the new car, and the original car went back to 
its previous registration.
Mr T says that he then arranged a sale of his original car to a private buyer but, when that 
buyer undertook checks on the car, they were told that TFS had registered a marker on it. Mr 
T says he lost that sale as the buyer thought there was an outstanding finance agreement 
for the car.
Mr T contacted TFS and asked about the marker that had been applied to the car he wished 
to sell. As this call was on a Friday, TFS asked him to make contact on the Monday for the 
relevant department to handle his enquiry. Mr T called back as requested and, while on the 
phone to TFS, it was arranged with the credit referencing agency to remove the marker. Mr 
T says during that call he also logged a complaint about the marker having been added to 
the car.
Mr T says that TFS didnt pursue his complaint and so he rang it back two weeks later to 
query why he hadnt heard anything. During this call TFS wasnt able to locate the marker 
since it had been removed and this led to some confusion about Mr Ts complaint. 
TFS did then investigate Mr Ts complaint and it asked the credit referencing agency if it 
could provide any explanation as to what had happened. TFS said it never had any interest 
in Mr Ts original car, and that car hadnt been part of the credit agreement arranged in July 
2020.
In August 2020 TFS partially upheld Mr Ts complaint. It said that it had been informed by 
the credit referencing agency that it was their process, and not any action by TFS, that had 
led to the marker showing against the car. The credit referencing agency explained that 
where a number plate change takes place within 28 days of a credit agreement being 
issued, then the system adds a marker to the new registration and to the previous 
registration as a safeguard. Any issue caused by this can be resolved with a phone call. 
However, TFS accepted that it had not handled Mr Ts complaint in a timely manner and 
offered him £75 as compensation for that.
Mr T was unhappy at TFSs response and complained to this service. Our investigator also 
partially upheld his complaint. She said that she didnt think TFS had done anything wrong 
regarding the adding of the marker to the cars registration number, as it hadnt made the 
request for this to happen. But she did think the offer of £75 compensation had been fair in 
regard to TFSs handling of Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said TFS had closed his complaint when 
he had called on the Monday, and hed had to pursue it again later. He was also concerned 
that there was no note on his account about the marker that had been added, and this had 
added to the confusion when he had contacted TFS later about what had happened. Mr T 
queried the need for the safeguarding step when moving number plates. He also said he 
had been told by the credit referencing agency that this process was followed as it had been 
agreed by TFS. He said it was unfair he hadnt been told this would happen when hed 
acquired his new car and added his personal plate to that car.
As Mr T disagreed with the view of our investigator and the complaint has been passed to 
me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen copies of the emails between TFS and the credit referencing agency where an 
explanation as to how this interest came to be marked against Mr Ts car is provided by the 
credit reference agency. Their response doesnt suggest there is an agreement already in 
place between TFS and the agency as to a process that should be followed where a number 
plate is transferred and there is a live credit agreement in place. It also doesnt suggest that 
there was any request by TFS for this marker to have been added to that registration 
number.
I appreciate Mr T believes that there was such an agreement in place, and he says the credit 
referencing agency was the one that told him there was. But I havent seen anything that 
would confirm that other than a copy of an email Mr T sent to the credit referencing agency 
following a phone call he had had with them. In this email Mr T makes reference to the 
agency informing him about this agreement between itself and TFS. But TFS is clear no 
such arrangement is in place and, without anything directly from the credit referencing 
agency confirming that an agreement is in place, I am unclear what was said that gave Mr T 
the impression that this agreement exists.
Ive seen that the credit referencing agency had offered to open a complaint on behalf of Mr 
T as to what happened. I think its reasonable to say this offer also shows TFS wasnt 
involved in this marker being added to the cars registration.
So, I think its more likely than not that there isnt such an agreement in place between TFS 
and the credit referencing agency, and TFS didnt ask for this marker to be added against 
the car. However, even if there was such an agreement in place, then I dont think I could 
reasonably say that TFS had done anything wrong. The safeguard appears to be put in 
place to ensure vehicles subject to finance arent sold on and the marker is removed as soon 
as contact is made either to TFS or the credit reference agency.
It isnt disputed that TFS had no interest in Mr Ts car and, as set out above, I havent seen 
any evidence that TFS asked for any such interest to be applied to this registration number. 
Looking at the evidence I cant reasonably say that TFS has done anything wrong here. As 
soon as it was aware of the marker that had been applied it took steps to get it removed. I 
therefore cant fairly say TFS was responsible for the loss of the sale of Mr Ts car on that 
occasion. 
Mr T says that the credit referencing agency had offered to compensate him, but then 
subsequently didnt do so. Again, I dont know what was said by the credit referencing 
agency to Mr T about possible compensation, but I cant reasonably hold TFS responsible 
for any change of view the agency may have had about paying compensation for the marker being added to the car.
Mr T has said he should have been advised by TFS about the marker being added at the 
time he took out the credit agreement, but I dont think its reasonable to expect a credit 
provider to run through every possible scenario with a consumer. I would only expect it to 
ensure the key features of a credit agreement were highlighted. Also, as its more likely than 
not that TFS was unaware of any the marker being added, I dont think it was in a position 
where it could have provided this advice in any event.
Ive seen that TFS has accepted that it didnt handle Mr Ts complaint as well as he could 
have reasonably expected it to. Mr T says TFS unfairly closed his complaint when he first 
raised it with them, and he had to make further contact to find out what had happened. He is 
concerned that TFS failed to put a note on his account about the marker, leading to 
confusion when he had to make further contact with it. I appreciate that Mr T has been 
caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience by TFSs handling of his complaint. And 
Ive seen that it has offered him £75 as compensation for that which Mr T rejected.
As TFS hadnt requested the marker to be added to the car, and then arranged for it to be 
removed without delay when it became aware, I dont think the gap in it then providing an 
answer to Mr T as to what had happened resulted in any financial detriment to him. So, I 
think the £75 offered was fair in these circumstances to reflect the impact of TFSs handling 
of Mr Ts complaint had on him. And Im going to ask TFS to make that payment to him.
So, for the reasons given above, and although I appreciate this is going to be of 
disappointment to Mr T, I am not going to ask TFS to do more.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Ts complaint and Im asking TFS to 
pay him the £75 compensation if it hasnt already done so for the handling of his complaint 
that caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given Im partially upholding Mr Ts complaint in that Im asking Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) Plc to pay him £75 as compensation, if it has not already done so, 
for way it which it dealt with his complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman