DRN-3746836
The complaint
Mr D complains that the value of his personal pension fell substantially. He says Scottish 
Widows Limited mis-managed the pension funds, and the name of the fund is misleading.
What happened
Mr D started his pension through a group personal pension provided by his employer. The 
pension is administered by Scottish Widows. 
In December 2021 Mr D phoned Scottish Widows to ask about moving some of the funds. At 
the time, the majority of the funds were invested in the Pension Protector fund, with 
£40,000 held in cash. Mr D requested that the £40,000 be moved from the cash fund to the 
Pension Protector fund and this was done.
In June 2022 Mr D phoned Scottish Widows again. He was unhappy because his pension 
fund had dropped in value by around 25%. He asked for more information about the pension 
and Scottish Widows sent him the fact sheet. Following this, Mr D asked for the funds held in 
the Pension Protector fund to be moved to cash. Scottish Widows transferred the funds.
Mr D complained about the drop in value but Scottish Widows didnt uphold his complaint, 
saying it only acted as administrator for the funds, hadnt given Mr D any advice and wasnt 
responsible for fund performance.
When Mr D then referred his complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld. He said:
Scottish Widows role was limited to administering the funds and overseeing the day 
to day running of the pension  it didnt give any advice.
In the call in December 2021 Mr D asked to transfer funds and Scottish Widows 
acted on his instructions; he didnt ask for and wasnt given any advice.
Although Mr D found the fund name Pension Protector misleading, the information 
provided about the fund described the investment accurately.
Mr D remained unhappy and made further comments but the investigator didnt change his 
view. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds pension was in a Group Personal Pension provided by his employer. Scottish 
Widows was chosen to provide the pension, but it didnt sell the policy to Mr D or give him 
advice about it. As the administrator, Scottish Widows role is limited to managing the day to 
day running of the pension  it wasnt responsible for the sale or for any advice Mr D 
received.
Mr D spoke to Scottish Widows in December 2021 as he was concerned about how his 
pension funds were performing. At that point, most of his pension was held in the Pension 
Protector fund but £40,000 was held in cash. Ive listened to a recording of that call. Mr D 
said he had around £40,000 in cash and was wondering why that was and whether he could 
put it all into the same investment. The call handler clarified with him what he wanted to do, 
and he said he wanted to switch the funds held in cash to the Pension Protector. It was a 
brief conversation. Mr D didnt ask for any information about the investments, and he didnt 
ask for  and wasnt given  any advice. 
Mr D says the name Pension Protector is misleading, and he was led to believe his pension 
was protected. I can see why he might consider the name misleading. But looking at the 
information provided by Scottish Widows, I think it does explain the nature of the pension. 
The fund information was easily accessible and made it clear the Pension Protector was 
rated as Cautious. The funds were invested in what would normally be considered low-risk 
investment but that doesnt mean there was no risk or that there was a protection of the 
capital. It doesnt provide any guarantee of the level of pension that will be provided in 
retirement or the cost of that pension.
Mr D was sent an annual statement each year. The statement for 2021 set out how his funds 
were invested. It also included statements inviting Mr D to review his pension and 
recommending that he seek advice from a financial adviser. If he wanted to review his 
investment, he could have sought independent financial advice.
Mr D also says Scottish Widows should have told him the value of his investments was 
falling but I wouldnt expect an administrator to proactively contact members in that way.
I appreciate it would have been very upsetting for Mr D to see the value of his pension fall. 
Its very unfortunate for him that market conditions led to this happening. But as Ive 
explained, Scottish Widows role was limited to managing the pension on a day to day basis. 
When he asked to switch his funds it acted on his instructions. It didnt give Mr D any advice 
and wasnt responsible for how his investments performed.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman