DRN-3593944
The complaint
M, a small business, complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd 
declined its claim on its commercial motor insurance policy and about the length of time it 
took to validate its claim. The complaint is brought on Ms behalf by Mr M, its owner. 
What happened
Ms car was vandalised, and Mr M made a claim on his policy. Berkshire asked for 
documentation to validate the claim. Mr M said he wasnt able to locate the purchase receipt 
and the V5 was in his fathers name. Mr M later supplied a purchase receipt that didnt have 
the sellers details so Berkshire couldnt validate this. Mr M also provided a V5 showing that 
the car was transferred to his ownership after the incident. Berkshire said the car didnt meet 
the policy definition of an insured vehicle, and so it declined the claim. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Berkshire had reasonably allowed Mr M time to provide the requested documents and to 
provide an explanation of the cars ownership. She thought it had warned Mr M that the car 
being in his fathers name was a problem. And she thought Berkshire had fairly and 
reasonably declined the claim due to the policys definition of an insured vehicle.
Mr M replied that the purchase receipt was genuine and that he had never said that his 
father owned the car. He provided evidence that the car had been insured in his name since 
he started trading. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that Berkshire has declined his claim. I can also 
see that hes upset that his honesty has been cast in doubt. Our approach in cases like this 
is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
and fairly and reasonably.
Berkshire said it declined the claim because the car didnt meet the requirements of the 
policy to be an insured vehicle. This is defined in the policy booklet as:
5. Insured Vehicle shall mean any motor vehicle (including its standard accessories but 
excluding keys/remote devices and audio/visual equipment) the property of the Insured or in 
their custody or control for Motor Trade purposes
So the test for Mr Ms car was that he either had to own it or that it was in his custody and 
control for motor trade purposes. I think Berkshire reasonably thought the latter wouldnt 
apply as the car wasnt owned by a customer and placed with Mr M for motor trade 
purposes. So the question was then whether or not Mr M owned the car. 
Berkshire first raised a concern that the car didnt have a valid MOT. Mr M said this wasnt 
needed as the car wasnt on the road. And I can see that the policy excludes cover for cars 
without a valid MOT only if one is required. But this wasnt why Berkshire declined the claim. 
Berkshire asked Mr M for the cars purchase receipt and its V5 registration document to 
establish ownership. I can see that the policy states that the purchase receipt must be 
provided when a claim is made. Mr M said he couldnt locate the purchase receipt due to the 
passage of time. I dont think this was unreasonable. But he later located the receipt with the 
cars manual. However, the receipt didnt provide details of the cars seller and so Berkshire 
couldnt validate the receipt as genuine. I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr M had told Berkshire that the car was registered in his fathers name, but that he owned 
it. Mr Ms father wasnt on the policy. Mr M also told Berkshire that he had bought the car but 
that his father had insured it adding him as second driver. But Mr M didnt explain why his 
father would insure a car he didnt own. 
Mr M then provided the V5 registration document showing that the car had transferred to his 
name after the incident. Mr M also provided previous certificates showing the car insured in 
his name. But I dont think this provides evidence that Mr M was the cars registered owner 
and keeper, as is usually required by motor insurance policies.
So I think it was reasonable for Berkshire to decide that there wasnt evidence to show that 
Mr M was the cars owner at the time of the incident. And therefore I think Berkshire fairly 
and reasonably declined the claim as the car didnt meet the policy definition of an insured 
vehicle. 
Mr M was unhappy that it took Berkshire some time to make this decision. And I agree that it 
took time for it to request and consider the documents and explanations he provided. But I 
think Berkshire had warned Mr M early in the claim that the issues with the purchase receipt 
and V5 would be problems. So I think Berkshire reasonably managed Mr Ms expectations. 
And I cant say that the time it took to validate the claim caused him further loss that requires 
redress. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman