DRN-4301064
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly 
declined a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A contacted Admiral to make a claim when an electric bike was stolen from her garage. 
Admiral initially said it would settle the claim at £350, as this was the maximum amount it 
would pay for a pedal bike that wasnt specified on the policy. Miss A didnt accept this 
amount. She said it was considerably less than the value of the bike. Ms A told Admiral only 
pedal bikes needed to be specified and the bike wasnt a pedal bike. Admiral then declined 
the claim as it said the bike was a motorised vehicle, which it didnt provide cover for under 
the policy.
When Miss A complained, Admiral maintained its decision to decline the claim. It also said 
that although Miss A said she had problems navigating Admirals website to check the policy 
booklet, it was the policyholders responsibility to ensure they had the right cover. However, 
it said Miss A had been given conflicting information about whether the bike was covered. 
So, it offered £125 compensation.
So, Miss A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
it was reasonable for Admiral to decide the bike was a motorised vehicle and not to cover 
the claim. She said Admirals offer of £125 compensation for the conflicting information was 
fair in the circumstances.
As Miss A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Admiral declined the claim because it said the bike was a motorised vehicles. So, Ive looked 
at the policy. The contents section of the policy said it didnt cover motorised vehicles, 
which it described as:
Any vehicle that is electrically or mechanically powered or assisted, and its keys, parts or 
accessories. This includes (but is not limited to) the following.
Quad bikes, e-scooters, caravans, trailers, aircraft and watercraft, whether or not they 
are licensed to be used on the road
Electrically assisted pedal cycles, electric wheelchairs or mobility scooters that must be 
licensed to be used on the road
Ive looked at the bike online and this showed a bike that was powered by a battery and had 
no pedals. So, I think its fair to say this was an electrically powered bike. Im aware that the 
definition of a motorised vehicle didnt specifically list a wholly electric bike. But I wouldnt 
expect a policy to list every possible type of motorised vehicle. In my view, the definition was 
clear when it described what it didnt cover and explained that it wasnt limited to only the 
vehicles listed. It said it didnt cover electrically powered vehicles and the bike was 
electrically powered.
Miss A has also said the bike should be covered as a domestic motorised vehicle, 
specifically as an electrically powered mobility carriage. So, Ive thought about this. The 
policy said it covered domestic motorised vehicles, which it described as:
Ride-on lawnmowers used in the boundaries of the home, electrically powered mobility 
carriages, electric wheelchairs and golf trolleys controlled by a person on foot.
The policy didnt define a mobility carriage. So, Ive considered this and what would be 
considered a reasonable definition. Government guidance describes a mobility vehicle and 
says:
Manual and powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters are medical devices for those who 
cannot walk or who have difficulty walking.
It also says:
Some other types of small electrically powered vehicles such as golf buggies look similar to 
mobility scooters. They are not 'invalid carriages' within the meaning of the 1988 
Regulations.
The guidance also explains that powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters may only be 
used by a disabled person, or by a non-disabled person who is involved in things like the 
sale of the mobility vehicle or showing how it is used. It says that [a] disabled person in this 
context is someone with an injury, physical disability or medical condition which means that 
they are unable to walk or have difficulty in walking.
So, I think its fair to say that a mobility vehicle is a medical device for a disabled person who 
cannot walk or who has difficulty walking. Although other vehicles might have similar 
characteristics, such as a golf buggy, the guidance says it doesnt mean they can be 
regarded as mobility vehicles.
Ive looked again at the stolen bike. I think its reasonable to describe it as a type of dirt bike. 
Im aware Miss A has also described it as an electric motorbike. The photos on the 
manufacturers website show it being ridden through off-road terrain, such as a forest. It 
describes the bike as built for the dirt and its frame as qualified to assure you a safe and 
fun riding experience through even the toughest terrains. In my view, I didnt see anything 
that suggested it was a mobility vehicle or carriage. 
Ive read all of Miss As comments and evidence and considered this and it doesnt persuade 
me that the bike was covered by the policy. I dont think the bike can fairly be regarded as a 
mobility vehicle or carriage. Ive also looked at the rest of the policy and havent identified 
any other part of it that would provide cover for the bike. So, I think it was fair that Admiral 
declined the claim. 
Miss A also said she wasnt told electric bikes werent covered when she took out the policy. 
I havent seen evidence that Miss A made Admiral aware she was specifically looking for 
cover for an electric bike. So, I wouldnt have expected Admiral to specifically highlight the exclusions around this. They were in the policy booklet. Miss A has also said she had 
problems accessing the policy booklet online. I havent seen evidence that Miss A raised this 
with Admiral, including any concerns about the level of cover, before she made the claim. 
So, Im not persuaded this made a difference.
Im also aware Admiral initially said it would cover the claim but only pay £350. It later said 
the bike wasnt covered under the policy. When Admiral replied to the complaint, it accepted 
that Miss A had been given conflicting information and offered £125 compensation. In the 
circumstances, I think that was a reasonable response to address the issue.
Having considered the full circumstances of this complaint, I dont uphold it or require 
Admiral to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman