DRN-1757386
The complaint
Miss S  complained about what her broker, My Policy Ltd, charged when she cancelled her 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss S bought her policy through an online comparison website. She later cancelled her 
policy because shed made a mistake about its suitability for her. In her application shed 
mistakenly entered an anticipated annual mileage of 1,500 miles when it was really 15,000 
miles. That was more than the policys maximum annual mileage, and if shed entered the 
correct mileage the website wouldnt have offered her the policy. 
When she cancelled the policy, My Policy gave her a refund of part of the premium shed 
paid, after charging her for the insurance shed used. But they wouldnt refund their 
arrangement fee of £247. They said that theyd acted in line with their terms and conditions, 
which made clear both that amount and that it was non-refundable. Miss S didnt agree and 
so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we have to look at whether My Policy have acted fairly and in 
line with the policy terms in charging the arrangement fee.
Miss S said she was willing to pay a fee, but she didnt feel that the £247 was reasonable. 
She wanted My Policy to give her a breakdown of that amount. She felt that My Policy had 
given her different and conflicting information, and this had caused her distress and made it 
difficult for her to budget. 
Miss S s policy was a telematics policy, which involved fitting a telematics device in her car 
which monitors driving behaviour. She said that My Policy pressurised her into fitting the 
device within seven days after the policy started, before they went through the small print 
with her, and threatened to cancel her insurance if she didnt. So she couldnt get out of 
paying the cancellation charge after she realised her mistake about the mileage and policys 
suitability for her. She felt that this had reduced the 14-day cooling off period My Policy 
should have given her and so had prevented her from exercising her right to get out of a 
contract that wasnt right for her.
My Policy accepted that they didnt explain very well how they calculated what she owed for 
the period theyd insured her. So as a gesture of goodwill they deducted £25 from that. But 
they wouldnt refund the £247. They said that if shed entered the correct mileage when she 
applied, the comparison website wouldnt have offered her a policy at all, because it was 
over its maximum mileage. So though they accepted that shed made an innocent mistake 
about her mileage, theyd still incurred costs in setting up and cancelling her policy.
 
They said the £247 was proportionate to those costs and didnt include any element of profit, 
but they couldnt provide any further breakdown because it was commercially sensitive 
information. However theyve since explained that the charge is to reasonably cover their 
costs which include, among other things, the cost of paying an engineer to fit the telematics 
device in a car, and administration costs in liaising with the insurer and the telematics data 
provider to tell them that the policy has been cancelled. 
They said theyd made their policy cancellation fees and charges clear to Miss S before she 
took out the policy, via their terms of business. Theyve shown us that and I agree they are 
clear. Theyve also shown us the online sales application process for the policy.  It shows 
that the process requires an applicant, in order to buy the policy, to click to confirm 
agreement that she has read and understood the terms of business and the linked policy 
documents and that she has read an understood her cancellation rights. It says that its 
important to note that if the policyholder cancels, a charge will apply. It also says  However, 
if you have installed the telematics device in the insured vehicle, we will be unable to refund 
the arrangement fee of £350. We will however reduce this amount to a total of £247...
A later page in the process requires the applicant, before proceeding, to confirm that she 
understands that the policy is a mileage-based telematics policy, a telematics smart box will 
be installed in her vehicle, and  the quote includes a non-refundable arrangement fee. 
So Im satisfied that My Policy brought the arrangement fee and its non-refundable nature to 
Miss Ss attention before she bought the policy. What they also make clear is that the 
telematics might box must be fitted within seven days of the start of the policy and if it isnt, 
the policy can be cancelled.  My Policy explain that this is an unusual condition and highlight 
it. And so Im also satisfied that My Policy made her aware of this before she bought the 
policy, so they are entitled to charge an arrangement fee on cancellation within the 14-day 
cooling off period. 
I do see that this situation caused Miss S frustration and expense, and she felt that My 
Policy pressurised her about fitting the telematics box. But I think that My Policy were only 
reminding her about a required condition of the policy, which shed already agreed to. So I 
dont think that was unfair. My Policy did incur costs in insuring her then having the policy 
cancelled. I dont think their charge is disproportionate to the cost of the service they 
provided. And so I dont think that My Policy treated Miss S unfairly in not refunding the 
arrangement  fee. This means that I dont require My Policy to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
