DRN-4473365
The complaint
Ms A complains about delays caused by Woodgrange Associates (IFA) Ltd trading as 
Advies Wealth (Advies) in the potential transfer of her defined benefits (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension arrangement. She says the delays it caused, along 
with not telling her about the guaranteed cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) deadline 
date, meant the deadline was missed resulting in her suffering a financial loss.
What happened
The following is a summary of the key events setting out the background to what happened 
here.
In March 2022, Ms A sought advice from Advies about her existing DB pension scheme and 
the possibility of transferring it to a personal pension.
Ms As communication with Advies during the advice process was predominately carried out 
by email and WhatsApp messaging, with some phone calls, because Ms A was travelling 
overseas between April and September 2022.
Following Advies request to Ms As DB scheme pension scheme administrators in April 
2022, it provided a CETV on 14 June 2022 (received by Advies on 20 June 2022) which was 
guaranteed until 14 September 2022.
According to Advies, it contacted Ms As DB scheme administrators on two occasions in 
June and July 2022 to confirm the figures because it thought they seemed low, albeit Ms As 
DB scheme says it has no record of this contact.
On 4 August 2022, Advies emailed Ms A in which it confirmed receipt of her fact-find (Ms A 
said she returned this in mid-July 2022) and it asked her for some additional information to 
help formulate the advice. Ms A said that she was traveling and asked if she could provide it 
in September 2022 when she returned. Advies said that it would use some assumptions to 
enable it to continue. It said Ms A would hear from it again shortly.
On 17 August 2022 Advies emailed Ms A telling her that, having considered things, a 
positive recommendation to transfer was likely. So, it required her to pay its agreed fee 
whereupon it would complete the necessary paperwork. Ms A replied and said she would 
pay when she returned to the UK in September. 
On 23 August 2022 Ms A emailed again in response to a voicemail message from Advies 
chasing up payment. She asked for confirmation that she could pay upon her return and 
reminded Advies that in their initial discussions she advised them of her extensive travel 
plans, which she was told wouldnt affect the process.
Advised emailed Ms A the same day. It apologised for not replying. It said: We are 
concerned about the dates, when are you back in the UK? It is not good to allow this to 
expire due to new valuations being some 15-20% down at present due to the financial 
uncertainty her[sic] in the UK at present. Ideally we need you to pay the fee by 31st Aug to 
be totally safe, but we may have 1 or 2 days flexibility.
Ms A duly paid the fee and on 25 August 2022 Advies emailed its recommendation report 
and accompanying documentation it said it had used to enable it to make a positive 
recommendation to transfer. The other documents included a cashflow report and Transfer 
Value Report (TVAS). It said hard copies would be posted to Ms A.
Ms A replied and said that she didnt understand much of what she received and said she 
wanted a face-to-face appointment. She asked if Advies would get back to her with an 
acceptable date.
Ms A retuned to the UK on 1 September 2022 and she said having read the report in hard 
copy, she found more issues that needed clarifying. She said she understood she needed to 
sign and return the paperwork but she wouldnt do so until she was happy with the concerns 
she wished to raise. Ms A said she heard nothing from Advies between 1 and 14 September 
2022. Ms A later said that she phoned Advies on 7 September 2022 to chase things up. 
Ms A said she missed a call from Advies on 16 September 2022 and she returned the call. 
Advies records say Ms A wanted to know what address to send her paperwork to. The 
following day, Advies left Ms A a voicemail message telling her shed missed the guarantee 
date deadline. Ms A emailed a reply saying this was the first time she understood there was 
a deadline.
Advies then requested a revised CETV from Ms As DB scheme trustees, which it received 
around mid-October 2022. Because the value had fallen, Advies recommended Ms A should 
now not transfer her pension because it was not financially viable.
Following an exchange of correspondence in January 2023 in which Ms A wanted to 
understand what had gone wrong, in February 2023 she complained to Advies. She said it 
had caused her losses due to the delays in processing her potential pension transfer. She 
said the matter had caused her distress and inconvenience due to the reduced tax-free cash 
lump sum available to her and that because it was a bad time to access her funds, shed 
now be realising a loss. She said she wanted compensation for the losses incurred as well 
as the return of the advice fee.
Advies didnt uphold Ms As complaint. While it said it had issued a final response letter, it 
hadnt been scanned on to its file so it wasnt available.
Dissatisfied with its response, Ms A referred her complaint to us. She said the delays Advies 
created when preparing the transfer, as well as their untimely responses to request for 
clarification and help, caused her to lose out  she didnt receive her tax-free cash lump sum 
and shes lost a significant value of her pension pot. Ms A also said that in January 2023 
when she asked Advies for their opinion as to why the transfer wasnt successful, it issued a 
poor and unprofessional response, which had no factual elements and was very upsetting. 
She said to put things right, she wants to be able to access her funds and transfer her DB 
pension to a personal pension at the original transfer value.
One of our Investigators looked at all of this and they partly upheld Ms As complaint. Firstly, 
in relation to a side point Advies raised about Ms A not being a client because she didnt 
return its client agreement, they said they were satisfied Ms A was a customer of Advies and 
so an eligible complainant under our rules. They went on to say they thought the evidence 
showed that Advies had made Ms A aware of the CETV deadline  it was referred to in its 
email of 23 August 2022, it was included on the first page of the suitability report and it was likely discussed during the advice process. And in relation to Advies delaying things, they 
said they didnt think there were any delays prior to its decision that a positive 
recommendation to transfer was likely. But even if Advies had delayed things, they said 
Ms A had enough time to action things prior to the guaranteed CETV deadline. Overall they 
said Ms A ought to have known about the deadline and that she couldve taken steps to 
avoid missing it.
But they said that, when Advies communicated with Ms A in January 2023 when she was 
seeking to understand what had gone wrong with her transfer, it used language that 
constituted poor service. And this had caused Ms A upset and distress. So they 
recommended Advies should pay Ms A £250 in recognition of the upset caused.
Advies replied and said it accepted the Investigators opinion. It said it would contact Ms A 
for her bank details to pay her the £250 distress and inconvenience payment.
Ms A disagreed. In summary she said there is no evidence that Advies did anything, or very 
little on her pension transfer between receiving the CETV from the scheme trustees and 
4 August 2022. She said despite Advies saying that it raised a query with her scheme 
trustees about the value and it didnt get an answer until 20 July 2022, shed received 
confirmation from the scheme trustees that the only contact theyd had from Advies following 
the issuing of the CETV, was its request for a second one in September 2022. Ms A said this 
shows Advies made false statements to the Financial Ombudsman Service which limits our 
ability to conduct a fair review. Ms A said there is no evidence Advies told her about the 
CETV expiry date. She said, despite her emailing Advies on 25 August 2022 asking to 
discuss the recommendation when she returned to the UK, it made no contact with her 
between 1 and 14 September 2022. She said she wasnt concerned because she didnt 
recognise the 14 September 2022 deadline and Advies had not been quick to respond in the 
past. She said she did chase them for the meeting on 7 September 2022, but heard nothing. 
Ms A said the Investigators conclusion that it was her delay in not contacting them sooner 
than 7 September 2022 as being the main reason for the failed transfer is unfair.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They said while Ms As evidence 
might give rise to doubt the accuracy of some of what Advies said happened, it didnt alter 
the outcome of the complaint. They maintained that the evidence shows Ms A was told 
about the CETV deadline and that she had ample opportunity to clarify things if she didnt 
understand.
Ms A repeated and summarised the key points shed previously made. 
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, while I know this isnt the answer 
Ms A was hoping for, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part only. And I do so for largely 
the same reasons given by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Ms A is unhappy because she says shes suffered a loss to her pension. She says Advies is 
responsible because it didnt tell her there was a deadline to return the paperwork, it caused 
delays in the transfer process and it didnt respond to her requests for help. She says all of 
this contributed to missing the CETV deadline and the transfer then not going ahead 
because the revised CETV was lower.
CETV guarantee date
Ms A says Advies didnt tell her about the guaranteed CETV deadline. And I can see her 
email to them of 17 September 2022 said she didnt realise there was a deadline to return 
the paperwork. But I think Ms A ought reasonably to have been aware of this important 
deadline.
Advies says there were a number of phone calls with Ms A and messages in which it notified 
her that, if she wished to proceed there was a deadline to meet. It doesnt appear to be in 
dispute that these two channels were how Ms A and Advies communicated. And I think its 
more likely than not the deadline was discussed with Ms A as Advies says. I say this 
because the three-month validity of Ms As CETV is the typical timeframe DB scheme 
trustees give when providing a CETV to a member. It is therefore an important and 
fundamental aspect of the pension transfer advice process because advice firms know they 
have to act within this timeframe. The advice they give has a natural lifespan  it is only 
relevant whilst the CETV is valid. So it would strike me as odd if Advies didnt talk about or 
refer to the CETV deadline in its conversations with Ms A.
But if not, I think Advies email of 23 August 2022 ought reasonably to have prompted Ms A 
to understand there was a time limit or deadline involved with things. I can see Ms A says 
she thought this was only in relation to paying Advies fee. But given what it said about being 
concerned about dates and not wanting to allow things to expire because new valuations 
were down 15-20% due to financial uncertainty in the UK, I think it was clear this wasnt 
about paying a fee. 
Furthermore on 25 August 2022 Ms A received Advies recommendation report and 
accompanying paperwork. I understand Ms A was overseas when she received this and she 
says she could only view things on a mobile phone, which was difficult. I also accept the 
documentation was lengthy. But this was important information. Ms A was expecting its 
arrival and she knew it required her attention. And despite the total number of pages in the 
information Ms A received, the first page of the suitability report  the key document in my 
view - contained a summary section, which quoted the CETV figure and underneath it said, 
Your guarantee date is: 14/9/2022. The pension transfer report or TVC also quoted the 
same information.  I think this was clear. Even if Ms A couldnt readily see this information 
when she tried to view it from overseas, she had hard copies waiting for her when she 
returned home.
So, overall I think Advies did make Ms A aware of the CETV deadline and that she ought 
reasonably to have understood what this meant.
Process delays
Ms A says Advies caused delays in the transfer process and it didnt respond to her requests 
for help. She says this contributed to missing the CETV deadline and the transfer then not 
going ahead because the revised CETV was lower.Ms A has firstly pointed to delays before Advies formulated its advice. She says while Advies 
said it queried the CETV figure with the scheme trustees and it didnt get an answer until 20 
July 2022, she says the trustees records show the next contact it had with Advies after 
providing the CETV on 14 June 2022 was in September 2022 when it requested the revised 
CETV. She says Advies have filled the period between receipt of the CETV and its contact at 
the beginning of August with spurious events.
But Im not persuaded that any delays at this stage of the advice process are important to 
the outcome of the complaint. It's possible Advies contact with the scheme trustees wasnt 
recorded. But even if I found that it hadnt questioned things with the trustees and I accept 
there were delays in formulating the advice, in my view there was still ample time from 
issuing the recommendation on 25 August 2022 to enable Ms A to meet the 14 September 
2022 CETV deadline. Furthermore, I think if Advies had been able to produce its 
recommendation a few weeks earlier, given Ms A was overseas from the beginning of 
August 2022, I think shed have still been in the same position of wanting or needing to wait 
until her return to the UK at the beginning of September to properly view and consider the 
advice paperwork.
Ms A says that despite her request for a meeting to discuss the recommendation on the 
same day she received it, she heard nothing from Advies until 16 September 2022, which is 
when she learned she missed the deadline. Its not entirely clear to me how much and what 
communication took place between Ms A and Advies from Ms A asking for a meeting to 
discuss things on 25 August 2022 and 16 September 2022. I say this because Ms A says 
conversations took place on WhatsApp to confirm where and how a meeting would happen. 
Advies has also said that Ms A said she would visit their office but decided not to. But 
unfortunately evidence of these messages isnt available. Also, in Ms As original complaint 
submission when she discussed the timeline of events, she said on return from her holiday 
she waited for Advies to contact her to discuss things as there were often delays before they 
responded. Later on, Ms A says she chased Advies for a meeting on 7 September 2022. Ive 
not seen any record of that call. So it is difficult for me to clearly understand what happened 
here. 
Ms A has been clear that she wasnt aware of the guarantee date deadline. But as Ive found 
above, I think she ought reasonably to have been. And I think because Ms A didnt recognise 
there was a looming deadline or a sense of urgency about things, this was a key factor 
which ultimately led to her missing the deadline. While Advies might not have always been 
prompt in responding to Ms A when she contacted them, if Ms A had appreciated that the 
advice was timebound, as I think she ought reasonably to have been, in my view there was 
sufficient time for her to raise her concerns and have them addressed so she could complete 
the transfer by the 14 September 2022 CETV deadline. Based on what Ive seen, I cant 
fairly say that Advies did anything substantially wrong here.
And ultimately, Ms A has not lost out financially as she says. This is because her pension 
benefits remain in the DB scheme. So, for the reasons above I dont uphold this aspect of 
Ms As complaint and I wont be telling Advies to put things right as Ms A has requested.
Unfair treatment and poor service
Nevertheless, and like the Investigator explained, when Advies replied to Ms A in January of 
this year, it did not treat her fairly or in the manner that should reasonably be expected from 
a regulated firm. I think the language it used when corresponding with Ms A was inappropriate and unnecessary. I consider this amounted to poor service, which fell far short 
of what Ms A ought to have expected and reasonably deserved as a customer of the firm. 
I dont think Advies treated Ms A fairly in this regard. And its clear from what Ms A has said 
that Advies actions caused her upset and distress. 
I can see the Investigator recommended Advies pay Ms A £250 in recognition of the upset 
caused. And taking into account the emotional and practical impact this had on Ms A, I think 
an award of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
Advies should pay Ms A £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
treatment of her when it answered her request for clarification about what had gone wrong 
with her pension transfer.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part only. Woodgrange Associates (IFA) Ltd trading 
as Advies Wealth should put things right as I have set out above. I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman