DRN-3550731
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) is responsible for damage to 
the exterior of her home as it failed to address a leak that was causing the damage.
What happened
Miss C is covered by a heating and plumbing insurance policy with Aviva. When an engineer 
attended on 6 January 2021 to undertake a service of Miss Cs boiler, he noticed an 
intermittent leak from the boiler. He didnt attempt to fix it but told Miss C to get in touch if it 
continued. Miss C contacted Aviva again on 20 January to report that the leak was 
continuing. Another engineer attended on 21 January 2021 and completed a repair. After 
testing, no further leaks were found.
Miss C didnt contact Aviva again until 19 December when she reported a leak from the 
boiler and reported damage to the outside wall, slabs, and wooden steps to her property. An 
engineer attended and completed a repair. She believes that the damage to her wall, slabs 
and steps was related to the initial leak in January. She wants Aviva to rectify the stained 
wall and the wooden steps which she says are now weakened and unsafe.
Aviva has said that as Miss C failed to report the leak sooner it couldnt uphold the property 
damage element of Miss Cs complaint - Miss C had complained to Aviva about other 
matters but didnt bring these to this service. It says it was her responsibility as the 
homeowner to mitigate any losses. If shed contacted it sooner, it wouldve sent someone 
out to complete a repair to stop the leak. This wouldve prevented the damage and 
discolouring that had now occurred over time. It didnt consider that it was liable for any of 
the damage or discolouring to Miss Cs wall, patio slabs or wooden steps.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigators view was that Miss C shouldve contacted Aviva earlier to mitigate her loss and 
that it wasnt reasonable to hold Aviva responsible after a gap of 11 months. He didnt think 
that Aviva had acted unfairly or unreasonably in not addressing the damage.
Miss C doesnt agree with our investigators view and says she continually alerted engineers 
to the damage to her wall. She has asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
Its therefore been passed to me to make a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint and Ill explain why not.
Ive looked at Avivas records showing the contacts between it and Miss C in 2021. Theres 
no record of any communication between Miss C and Aviva between 20 January and 19 
December 2021. Miss C says she continually alerted engineers to the damage to her wall, 
but if Miss C was reporting this to other engineers and not to Aviva, Aviva cant be held 
responsible for the lack of any response or action. 
Aviva has also said in its final response letter to Miss C that when Miss C was asked why 
she didnt report the leak sooner, she said shed been on holiday and that she needed to ask 
her husband. There was no mention of attempts having been made between January and 
December 2021 to contact Aviva or any other engineers about the continuing leak. 
I agree with our investigator that the damage is clearly visible in the photographs Miss C has 
provided, and that it wasnt reasonable of Miss C to have waited 11 months before bringing 
this to Avivas attention, particularly as shes said in her complaint to this service that water 
was gushing out the pipe at the back. 
Unless Miss C contacted Aviva, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to assume that the repair 
undertaken in January had fixed the leak. If Aviva had been informed earlier that there was 
still a leak, it couldve undertaken another repair and further damage couldve been avoided. 
In my opinion Miss C is responsible for the extent of the damage by allowing the leak to go 
unrepaired for so long.
My conclusion is that Aviva isnt responsible for the extent of the damage to Miss Cs wall, 
slabs and steps because of her failure to report the continuing leak to Aviva for 11 months. I 
therefore dont consider Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in not upholding Miss Cs 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman