DRN-1144011
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance Plc charged her a fee when she exceeded 
the credit limit on her credit card.
What happened
Mrs M used her credit card on 31 May 2019 to make a transaction in the sum of £1,500. As 
she had made some payments on her credit card earlier that month, this pushed her over 
her credit limit of £1,500.
Tesco wrote to Mrs M on 3 June 2019 notifying her of this. It said it would apply a £12 over 
limit fee to her account and until the amount over and above her credit limit had been paid, 
she wouldnt be able to make any further payments with her credit card. 
Mrs M was away at the time and as soon as she returned she made a payment to her 
account. 
Mrs M asked Tesco to reimburse the fee of £12 it charged her for going above the credit 
limit. It didnt agree to do this, so she complained to us.
Our investigator didnt think Tesco has done anything wrong so didnt uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. She disagreed with that opinion. Her complaint has now been passed to me to 
look at everything afresh and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it.
Its not disputed that the credit limit was exceeded by the payment Mrs M made on 31 May 
2019.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms credit card account say if she goes over the credit limit 
Tesco will charge a fee each time and this will appear on her monthly credit card statement. 
Theres a table of fees and charges on her credit card statements which says the over limit 
fee is £12.
I know Mrs M will be disappointed, but I dont think Tesco has unfairly applied the fee in the 
circumstances. Its for her to manage her credit card account and the credit limit wouldve 
been at the top of each of her monthly statements. Ive also seen evidence that Mrs M 
exceeded her credit limit on this credit card in February 2018. Although, on that occasion 
Tesco did agree to waive the over limit fee it applied to her account, Im satisfied this 
supports she was aware of the credit limit in May 2019 and that a fee is charged if its 
exceeded.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ms comments including what she says about initially trying 
to make a more expensive purchase on her credit card on 31 May 2019, which wasnt 
authorised. And if the purchase she did make pushed her over the credit limit, Tesco shouldnt have authorised this payment either. She also says she tried to access her account 
online to check her credit limit but was unable to do so. Because she was on a cruise ship at 
the time, she also says she wasnt able to use an ATM to check her balance, or call Tesco. 
But as Ive said above, its for Mrs C to manage her account  and keep track of the 
transactions on her card. Once the limit was exceeded, Im satisfied Tesco promptly notified 
her.
Ive also taken on board what Mrs M says about making a payment to her account shortly 
after returning from her cruise, being a loyal customer and using the credit card when buying 
items from a certain supermarket. She also says, had she known that the purchase made on 
her card on 31 May 2019 wouldve resulted in her credit limit being exceeded, she wouldve 
used another credit card with a higher credit limit. But Im not persuaded that any of those 
points mean that Tesco unfairly applied the over limit fee.
I havent considered what Mrs M says about having problems accessing her online account; 
thats the subject of a separate complaint. Mrs M also says she has previously asked Tesco 
to increase her credit limit, which its declined to do. Mrs M would need to complain 
separately to Tesco about that issue and give it an opportunity to reply before referring that 
complaint to us to investigate (if shes unhappy with the response she gets).   
My final decision
I don't uphold Mrs M's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman