DRN-3388295
Complaint
Miss G has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to 
her. She says the loan was provided at a time when she was already struggling and couldnt 
afford the payments.
Background
Avant Credit provided Miss G with a loan for £1,000.00 in April 2015. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of just under £115. One of our adjudicators reviewed 
Miss Gs complaint and thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Miss G with this loan. 
Avant Credit didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Gs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Miss G could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Despite being provided with an extended period of time to do so, Avant Credit hasnt 
explained why it disagrees with our adjudicators assessment. I find Avant Credits lack of a 
response and its apparent disregard of its DISP 1 obligations to be extremely disappointing. 
Nonetheless, Ive looked at the information Avant Credit obtained when it provided this loan 
in an attempt to determine whether it made a fair lending decision. 
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Avant Credit carried out a credit 
check. The results of which clearly demonstrated that Miss G had a history of high-cost and 
other payday lending. And she had more than one account of this type with an overdue 
extended balance. So Im persuaded by what Miss G has said about already being in a 
difficult financial position at the time. And while its possible her credit file reflected her 
choices rather than because she was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of 
cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Avant Credit, Ive been persuaded to accept Miss Gs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Gs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out 
about Miss Gs income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss G. As Avant Credit 
provided Miss G with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards her. 
Miss G paid interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been provided with. So 
Im satisfied that Miss G lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it should 
put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Miss G
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Miss G by:
Refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss G paid on this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss G to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded on Miss Gs credit file as a result of this 
loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Gs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman