DRN-4196502
The complaint
Mr D wants Barclays Bank UK PLC to refund money he says he was meant to receive back 
from family members.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr D received a benefits back payment. He later transferred this money to 
his sister and his daughter after asking them to keep it safe for him. Mr D told the bank he 
did this whilst he was unwell, but his relatives have not repaid all the money to him. He says 
that around £7,500 is still due to him and Barclays should pay it. 
Barclays investigated the situation but didnt agree. In its final response letter, it explained 
that Mr Ds bank statements show all the funds have since been paid back. But it paid Mr D 
£100 compensation to acknowledge that some of the phone calls theyd had with him were 
confusing and gave wrong information. It also paid him a further £25 as a gesture of goodwill 
to help Mr D when he said he had no money to buy food. Around the same time, Barclays 
gave Mr D notice that it intended to close his accounts. 
Mr D contacted us for help. He said that the situation was not right and his sister and 
daughter had taken his money. He explained they had fallen out as a result.  
Our Investigator looked into things but couldnt see that Mr D had lost out. She shared 
copies of Mr Ds statements with him showing his sister and daughter had sent more money 
back to him than hed originally transferred to them. She made a table to help him identify 
the incoming payments.
She looked carefully at the wider circumstances surrounding Barclays decision to close 
Mr Ds accounts. She accepted Barclays could make a commercial decision to close an 
account and that it had given Mr D notice in line with its terms and conditions. But she 
thought Barclays could have offered additional steps to support him before taking this action, 
such as giving him the opportunity to appoint a representative or doing more to follow the 
advice that Mr Ds mental health support team had shared about how best to support him 
during interactions. She noted Mr D expressed remorse during some phone calls, and he 
told Barclays he needed to be assessed for his mental health problem. She noted that Mr D 
had opened another account and made new banking arrangements, but she thought 
Barclays should pay a further £150 compensation to acknowledge this inconvenience. 
Barclays agreed. But Mr D didnt. He said he wanted all of his money back and not just a 
couple of hundred pounds. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant fairly require Barclays to pay more than it already has. I know this 
isnt the news Mr D is hoping for, so I will explain why.
Does Barclays have to refund money to Mr D?
Mr D says that he is owed money by family members. He wants Barclays to take 
responsibility for repaying him. Hes explained that he wasnt well when he sent the money 
to them and that theyve since fallen out. From what Mr D has said, I can appreciate that he 
might not make the same choices with the money if this situation were to happen today. But 
this doesnt mean that Barclays must refund him. 
Mr D does not dispute that he transferred the money, so it is authorised by him and the 
starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 is that it is Mr D rather than 
Barclays that is responsible for it. Ive thought about whether Barclays acted with the 
appropriate level of care and whether it ought reasonably to have recognised that Mr D was 
at risk of financial harm at the time he sent the money. But I am not persuaded that I could 
fairly say Barclays should have been concerned or that it should have prevented Mr D from 
sending the money to his family for safe keeping. 
Closing Mr Ds accounts 
The terms and conditions of bank accounts allow banks such as Barclays to choose to end a 
banking relationship with a customer. Barclays made a business decision it was going to 
withdraw Mr Ds account facilities and gave him over two months notice that it was going to 
close his accounts.
But its clear that Mr D is a vulnerable adult and theres no doubt that the bank was aware of 
Mr Ds situation based on the interactions theyd had. Mr Ds accounts were managed by a 
specialist support team within the bank that works directly with vulnerable customers. So Ive 
thought about whether Barclays treated Mr D fairly when it decided to close his accounts. 
From what I have seen, Mr Ds interactions with the bank were frequent and challenging. 
Theres no question that phone calls were a highly emotive and distressing experience for 
both Mr D and the banks staff. Its clear that the calls had an impact on both parties both at 
the time they were talking and after they had ended. The banks notes show it often made 
urgent referrals to other agencies for specialist support during these calls, including requiring 
immediate assistance from emergency services and social services. 
Our Investigator highlighted that Mr Ds social worker had shared information with Barclays 
about how to support Mr D and better manage conversations with him. Its possible, but not 
guaranteed, that the bank may have been able to build an amicable relationship with Mr D if 
it had acted on that information. Barclays accepted this and has already paid Mr D the 
further compensation our Investigator recommended to acknowledge the inconvenience of 
having to find a new bank. 
It's clear that the closure was not a decision the bank reached lightly, and I accept that it will 
inevitably have caused Mr D inconvenience to make new banking arrangements. But I am 
mindful that Barclays did allow Mr D to use his accounts as normal in the lead up to the 
closure, so he had access to banking services whilst he made new arrangements. As a 
result, the impact of the closure was reduced. 
Having considered everything, I am unable to fairly and reasonably recommend that 
Barclays should have to do anything further. I think the further compensation of £150 
Barclays has already paid to Mr D is a fair way to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint because I think the steps 
Barclays Bank UK PLC have already taken are fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman