DRN-3353994
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy as Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt accept a pension 
switch. 
What happened
On 29 March 2021, Mr M requested to switch his pension, the value of which was less than 
£2, from Pension Provider A to Aviva. 
On 31 March 2021, Aviva contacted Mr M to confirm that it couldnt accept the switch 
explaining the transfer value was too low and didnt meet its minimum requirements, but also 
to check whether an error was made when the pension switch was submitted. Unhappy with 
Avivas decision to reject the switch request Mr M asked for further explanation.  
On 8 April 2021, Aviva said the minimum criteria for single payments or pension transfers is 
£5,000 or £1,000 if regular payments were also being made, so ultimately Aviva would be 
unable to accept the switch request. Unhappy, Mr M raised a complaint. 
On 4 June 2021, Aviva issued a final response letter about the complaint and didnt uphold 
it. Aviva reiterated the minimum requirement points saying the Your commitment section in 
the Aviva Pension Key Features document (KFD) states its customers are able to make 
single payments of at least £5,000 or £1,000 if regular payments at a minimum of £50 per 
month are being paid. Aviva also said, If you're unhappy with this product, we do 
recommend you look for another provider who may be able to offer a more suitable product 
to suit your needs. Mr M found this remark insulting to both Aviva and himself. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Avivas final response Mr M referred the complaint to this 
service to consider. 
Our investigator concluded that Aviva fairly applied the terms noted in its Pension KFD and 
was within its rights to exercise its discretion not to deviate from its stated terms, so didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. Unhappy with the investigators conclusions Mr M 
asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr M has very strong feelings about his complaint, having provided detailed 
submissions in writing in support of his complaint points, which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Mr M will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my assessment is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Ive reviewed the Aviva Pension KFD, which outlines the main terms for the account Mr M 
was attempting to switch into including the following terms:
Your commitment

To make payments of:
- at least £50 per month; or
- a single payment of at least £5,000, or £1,000 if you're making regular payments of
at least £50 per month.
Mr M is unhappy that the terms dont specifically mention a minimum payment for pension 
switches unlike other pension firms. But its reasonable for Aviva to exercise its legitimate 
commercial judgment to write their own terms. And its reasonable for them to treat pension 
switches the same as other payments into the pension.
I think the terms are clear enough. So I cant fairly say that they mislead or would create a 
reasonable expectation that Aviva would accept a pension switch with a transfer value of 
less than £2 under any circumstances. And, I cant say Aviva have done anything wrong by 
not accepting the switch in, as thats a commercial decision their entitled to make. 
Ive also looked at whether the Aviva complaints specialist remarks, as quoted below, were 
insulting. 
If you're unhappy with this product, we do recommend you look for another provider 
who may be able to offer a more suitable product to suit your needs.
Having carefully considered the statement above, Im unable to conclude that any insult can 
be inferred. In fact, Aviva have acted entirely appropriately and proactively by politely 
signposting an alternative course of action to Mr M when it couldnt accommodate his needs. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman