DRN-4072476
The complaint
Ms A complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy. She wants it to reinstate the policy and compensate her for her trouble and upset.
 
What happened
Ms A said an uninsured driver took her car without her consent. The driver was stopped by 
the police and the car was impounded. But Ms A couldnt release it as Mulsanne said she 
was no longer covered. The car was then disposed of. Ms A said Mulsanne didnt explain 
why she was no longer covered and didnt allow her to cancel the policy. Mulsanne said it 
had cancelled the policy because Ms A had failed to protect her car from loss or damage. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mulsanne 
hadnt reasonably investigated the circumstances and so hadnt shown that Ms A had 
breached the policys terms and conditions. He also thought Mulsanne hadnt properly 
explained why it was cancelling the policy and hadnt called Ms A back. He thought 
Mulsanne should record the policy as being cancelled by Ms A and reimburse her for the 
loss of her car. 
Mulsanne replied that Ms A had an obligation to safeguard her car and it stood by the reason 
for cancellation. It said Ms A could make a theft claim and would need to evidence that the 
police were dealing with the uninsured driver. Ms A replied that she also wanted 
compensation for the increase in premium due to the cancellation on her record.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms A felt frustrated that her policy was cancelled when it was close to 
expiring and she had paid her years premium. I can also understand that this has been a 
costly experience for her as she had to dispose of her car and her premium for new cover 
increased. 
Ms A has described the circumstances. She said a friend, who was uninsured to drive her 
car, took it while she was at work. The car was stopped by the police and impounded. Ms A 
went to collect it, but the police had called Mulsanne to check whether cover was in place. 
Mulsanne said an underwriter would need to decide whether Ms A was covered. And it said 
this decision was made the next day. In the meantime, Mulsanne wouldnt allow Ms A to 
cancel the policy herself. Ms A said Mulsanne gave her three different reasons for the 
cancellation. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mulsanne initially said it had cancelled the policy under General Condition 1 of the policy 
because an uninsured driver had driven her car and it considered that a misrepresentation 
had occurred. But I cant see what this misrepresentation was. 
Mulsanne then said it cancelled the policy because Ms A was in breach of General Condition 
3 of the policy.
3. Protecting and maintaining your car You or any person covered by the policy must:
 protect your car from loss or damage
I think this is a common condition in motor insurance policies and not unusual. And so I think 
its reasonable for Mulsanne to rely on it to cancel a policy. So Ive considered whether 
Mulsanne acted fairly and reasonably in applying the condition in Ms As particular 
circumstances. 
Mulsanne said Ms A had allowed an uninsured driver to use her car. Mulsanne hasnt 
provided an explanation of how it reached this conclusion. Ive listened to the calls Ms A had 
with Mulsanne after the cancellation. Mulsanne said no cover was in place because the car 
had been impounded and it didnt cover or release impounded cars. So Ms A couldnt 
release her car from the impound. Mulsanne said she should await the underwriters 
decision about her policy. Ms A then asked whether she could cancel the policy herself. But 
Mulsanne said a £75 fee would be applied even though the policy was near expiry. 
In the second call, the policy had been cancelled by the underwriters. Mulsanne wouldnt 
discuss the matter over the phone, but it invited Ms A to make a complaint. Mulsanne said a 
manager would call Ms A back, but no call was made.  
So I cant see evidence that Mulsanne investigated the circumstances and has shown that 
Ms A failed to protect her car. I also cant see that she made a claim for loss or damage. So 
Im not satisfied that Mulsanne has fairly and reasonably applied the policy condition to 
cancel Ms As policy. I also cant see where in the policy it states that Mulsanne wont cover 
impounded cars.
Ms A wanted to cancel the policy herself. And so I think Mulsanne should reasonably have 
allowed her to do this. I think it should change how the cancellation is recorded to state that 
it was cancelled by Ms A. And Mulsanne should provide Ms A with a letter stating that this 
has been done. Ms A can then show this to her current insurer and ask it to recalculate her 
premium without the cancellation. 
Ms A was unable to release her car from the impound due to the cancellation and it was 
disposed of. So I think Mulsanne should reasonably compensate her for this loss. I think it 
should assess the value of the car and pay Ms A this amount. No claim was made on her 
policy, so the policy excess shouldnt be deducted from this payment. 
Putting things right
I require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Change how the policy is recorded on any internal and external databases to show that it 
was cancelled by Ms A and provide Ms A with a letter to confirm this. 
2. Assess the value of Ms As car at the date of its disposal and pay her this amount for her 
loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman