DRN-3635684
The complaint
Mr L complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AAUICL) handled 
and settled a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to settle the claim as 
50/50 split liability, refund his premium and compensate him for his trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mr L was involved in a collision with another driver at a roundabout and AAUICL held him 
fully at fault. Mr L was unhappy with this as he thought the other drivers hesitant driving had 
caused the accident. He thought AAUICL hadnt investigated the claim fully and that it 
should consider dashcam footage. He was also unhappy that the damage to the other car 
didnt correspond to his car and that AAUICL had relied on the other drivers engineers 
report. He thought that enhancing the dashcam footage would show that this damage was 
pre-existing. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AAUICL 
had reasonably investigated and handled the claim and decided to hold Mr L fully at fault, as 
it was entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. He thought it was reasonable for it 
to rely on the other drivers engineers report about the damage. And he didnt think it 
needed to enhance the dashcam footage. 
Mr L replied at length providing submissions to support his stance that he was, at worst, only 
partly at fault for the collision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr L is adamant that the other drivers driving behaviour was the cause of the 
accident and that blame for it should be shared. I can understand that he feels frustrated that 
AAUICL is holding him fully at fault for the accident. 
From what I can see, Mr L was behind another car at a roundabout The other car had been 
inching forward and had then stopped when Mr L ran into the back of that car at low speed.
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr L the same as someone else in his position. 
AAUICL is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr L to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr L has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision about liability. 
The evidence that AAUICL had to consider was the two drivers versions of events, dashcam 
footage and photographs provided by Mr L and an engineers report on damage to the other 
car. AAUICL thought Mr L hadnt left sufficient braking distance and so he was responsible 
for the collision. It didnt think it could defend the matter if it went to court. And so it held Mr L 
fully at fault and dealt with the other drivers claim. 
AAUICL and our Investigator have already explained that the effect on Mr Ls driving record 
will be the same whether he was held fully or partly at fault. 
Mr L was concerned that the damage to the other drivers car may have been pre-existing. 
But I think theres no dispute that he ran into the back of the other car. The claimed for 
damage was in this area. And this was supported by an engineers report. Its not unusual for 
an insurer to rely on another partys engineering evidence to support a claim. And I can see 
that this was considered and the claimed for damage authorised by AAUICLs own 
engineers. 
Mr L also provided detailed evidence that he said showed his car couldnt have caused the 
claimed-for damage. But this evidence isnt independent expert engineering evidence. And I 
think it was reasonable for AAUICL to rely on the expert evidence provided by its own and 
the other drivers engineers. 
Mr L thought enhancing the dashcam footage may show that there was pre-existing 
damage. But I think AAUICL is entitled to minimise claim costs and it didnt need to do this 
as the claimed-for damage was consistent with the accident circumstances. 
Im satisfied that AAUICL came to its liability decision after reasonably investigating the claim 
and considering the evidence. Mr L thought the other drivers behaviour had contributed to 
the accident. But AAUICL didnt think it could prove that the other driver had been negligent. 
So I think that AAUICL fairly and reasonably held Mr L fully at fault, as it was entitled to do 
by the policys terms and conditions. 
As Im satisfied that AAUICL hasnt handled or settled Mr Ls claim unfairly, I dont require it 
to change its decision or pay him any refund or compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman