DRN-4260920
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the standard of service provided by Ageas Insurance Limited
(Ageas) under his home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Ageas includes its agents, suppliers and contractors
for the purposes of this decision letter.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr L first noticed water running out of a wall vent at his home which occurred
when the shower had been used. He thought that water was making its way into the cavity of
the brick wall. He called a plumber who checked all the internal pipework but considered that
the problem was external and related to the main sewage waste pipe into which the shower
was connected. Mr L also engaged a survey company which had also identified an issue
externally. Mr L stated that theres a constant flow of dirty, smelly water running across his
patio which he had to power-wash on a regular basis.
Mr L said that Ageas contractors wouldnt listen to him and dug a hole two metres away
from the area of the suspected leak. The contractors then exposed and cut a hole in his
neighbours pipe and left, saying all was fixed, however Mr L said that the situation didnt
improve. Mr L complained to Ageas and a contractor arrived with a drain camera. Mr L said
the drain camera was inserted approximately two metres below the leak and the contractor
said the drain was fine. Mr L said that Ageas never exposed the area he identified.
Ageas said that its contractor carried out a successful repair to the relevant external 
pipework. It thought that the problem stemmed from inside the house and wasnt covered by
the relevant policy. It later stated that a claim for any potential leak source inside the house
might be covered, but would need to be raised as a separate claim by Mr L.
Mr L submitted a complaint as he wanted Ageas to return and properly repair the leak. 
However, Ageas maintained its position and Mr L therefore referred his complaint to this
service. He said he felt that Ageas hadnt been prepared to listen to him and hadnt treated
him seriously. Hed paid the excess sum of £300 before the contractors started work. He felt
that theyd been contracted to repair the leak but had failed to do so.
The relevant investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint. Whilst the investigator appreciated Mr Ls
comment that the contractor carried out incorrect work, she hadnt seen reasonable
evidence to verify this. The investigator therefore didnt conclude that the contractor had
erred. She noted that the contractor had suggested that the issue was inside the house
after all, but Ageas didnt send anyone else to assess this. Even if the leak was internal,
the investigator thought that Ageas should have fixed it under the policy. She considered
that Ageas should pay Mr L £200 in compensation for the inconvenience and distress this 
whole process had caused him.
Ageas didnt agree with the investigators view. In the circumstances, the matter was 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In June 2023, I issued a 
provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint regarding the service quality element only, as follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether Ageas has applied the terms and conditions of
its policy and generally treated Mr L in a fair and reasonable manner. On a provisional basis,
I dont consider that it has, and Ill explain why. In reaching this provisional conclusion, Ive
considered both parties submissions as summarised below.
Mr L said that this problem had been ongoing since February 2022. He thought that Ageas 
contractors may have patched a part of the drainage system, but not the area where there 
was a leak. He thought that they had also surveyed part of the drain which was two metres 
below the leak, and he produced a drawing to illustrate his point. He thought that the correct 
area of the leak had never been exposed by the contractors, but that his neighbours drain 
was exposed and that the contractors had cut a hole in it.
Mr L said that his own plumber had checked all internal pipework for a leak and had gone 
under the floor and removed part of a ceiling below. He confirmed that all the internal waste 
pipes were sound and considered that an area externally was the source of the problem due 
to ground movement. Mr L had also arranged for a drain survey to be carried out. He said it 
showed quite clearly the problem as to where the line of drain deviated and showed a joint 
piece had dropped which left a hole from 12 oclock to 03 oclock in the sewer had a severity 
4 rating and said this piece had dropped due to ground movement.
Ageas had then authorised a repair and it appointed agents and contractors. Mr L felt that 
the contractors werent prepared to listen to what he said regarding his plumbers advice and 
that they dug a hole two metres away from the suspected leak area. They then cut a large 
rectangular hole in his neighbours pipe, but never explained the reason for this. When they 
left, they told Mrs L that all was fixed. When Mr L ran waste-water, he said it obviously was 
no better and he contacted Ageas about the on-going problem.
Mr L said that he did receive another visit from a representative of the contractors, to carry 
out a drain camera survey. Mr L said that the contractor had been instructed to carry out a 
survey in the lower part of the drain which Mr L said was two metres below the leak. Mr L 
said that the drain survey which hed obtained showed there was a connection on the sewer, 
close to house wall, which had never been uncovered or checked by the contractors. He 
said that during the survey conducted by Ageas contractors, the representative also said; 
something was not right in that area and he would report it to his boss, but it never went any 
further with no follow up.
In summary, Mr L said that the contractors never dug up and inspected the suspect leak 
area. He still had stinking water running across [the] patio which I have to power wash to 
stop it from continually going green and smelly. Mr L considered the work carried out on 
behalf of Ageas to have been totally unsatisfactory and the waste-water leak remained as 
before. Mr L said that the problem had been going on for months with no solution found. He 
thought Ageas had been quick enough to ask for a £300 excess payment but had not been 
as quick to cure the problem.
I now turn to what Ageas has said about the matter. In its final response letter, it said that 
once it had received the cause of damage report from Mr Ls contractor, it appointed its 
supplier to assess and validate the claim in full. It said that its contractor attended Mr Ls 
home twice to check on the repairs and could not find fault with their repairs. It stated that 
the contractors considered that the issues you believe to have experienced were due to an 
internal property leak and not due to the leak which it thought that its contractor had now 
rectified to their usual high standard.In its case records, Ageas had acknowledged that Mr L had provided images of what 
appeared to be a damaged drain which might be causing the high-level leak where the 
property is on a split level. Ageas contractors in turn produced a report and carried out
works April 2022. They said: Investigations confirmed a large displaced joint. A[n] 
excavation was carried out to gain access to the drain, following which a patch liner (CIPR) 
was installed to restore full serviceability. We now close our file. The contractors further 
considered that the drain which Mr L referenced, was where the drain material changed to 
clay. It said that from the CCTV photos that Mr Ls contractor sent, there was no sign of any 
displacements or cracks on this area that could be contributing to issues.
Ageas said that its drainage experts had re-attended Mr Ls property twice and checked over 
their repairs and confirmed they were not faulty or causing any further leak. It thought that, 
as no further damage was found to the drainage system, it may be worth a surveyor 
attending to assess the internal aspects.
The contractors described the site difficulties; I would recommend we excavate on mark
to hopefully find shaft as if we dont this excavation would be 1.7m deep and in such a small 
area due to a wall and the garage this may be difficult, if we find shaft we would attempt to 
installrepair over displaced joint. We are unsure if this will be achievable They referred 
to exposing pipework and cutting into a pipe so they we could install the repair. In May, it 
reported that their CCTV survey to check works found the repair not to be causing any 
issues and believed the waste pipe connected to the shower could be the issue.
Finally, Ageas stated that the claim related to underground services and not an escape of 
water and was satisfied that the further leak reported was not as a result of the works on this 
claim. It said that an internal leak would be classed as an Escape of Water claim and that 
Mr L would need to contact Ageas to register this as a new claim under this different peril.
In reaching this provisional decision, the starting point is the wording of the policy documents 
which forms the basis of Mr Ls insurance contract with Ageas. The policy covers both 
external and internal leaks as follows. I note that the policy wording states that it covers 
buildings in relation to Escape of water (water damage) as a result of a burst, leaking or 
overflowing fixed domestic drain, water or heating installation, kitchen appliance or fixed 
domestic water piping/pipes There is also cover for trace and access as follows; We will 
also pay up to £5,000 in total for the costs we have agreed to in advance, for locating the 
source of the water or oil damage including the reinstatement of any wall, flooring or ceiling 
removed or damaged during the search.
Mr L reported a leak to Ageas in early 2022. I consider that it would have been reasonable to 
expect that Ageas would then diligently investigate the source of that leak whether internal or 
external. I appreciate that Ageas initially accepted the opinion of Mr Ls plumber that the 
cause of damage related to external pipework. I also appreciate that it thought it had traced 
the problem and arranged a successful repair and resolved the problem. Unfortunately, the 
work hasnt fixed the leak of which Mr L complains. It may well be that Ageas carried out 
repairs to a problem it identified, however this problem was unlikely to be the cause of the 
leak. Ageas hasnt contested that a leak still exists, although it appears to be taking the 
position that a new leak has now emerged. On a provisional basis therefore, I consider that 
the most likely scenario is that the original leak had not been traced and fixed, despite Mr L 
being in regular dialogue with Ageas about the problem.
In exchange for Mr L paying his insurance premiums and following a claim, Ageas would be 
expected to investigate and resolve any leaks covered by his policy and complete works as 
appropriate. I dont consider that its done enough to comply promptly, fairly and reasonably 
with its obligations under the policy. Whether the cause is internal or external, I consider that 
the problem arises from the same leak which Mr L reported in early 2022 and is still on-going 18 months later.
If the issue is due to faulty pipework inside the home, I consider that Ageas should urgently 
investigate and resolve the issue. If it is found that Mr Ls plumber was correct and that the 
leak relates to the external pipework, then the likelihood is that Ageas contractors hadnt 
successfully traced and repaired the relevant leak. There is also reason to question whether 
Ageas contractors had successfully addressed the issue. Its notes clearly show that 
accessing the site wouldnt be straightforward and its contractor acknowledged that there 
appeared to be a further issue on site.
Whilst I recognise that Ageas contractors attended Mr Ls property on more than one 
occasion, Ageas didnt arrange an independent specialist to check the on-going problem. Mr 
L said that the contractors representative who did conduct such a survey recognised that 
there was a separate issue and said that he would refer this separate issue to his boss, 
however Mr L heard nothing more. Im persuaded that this conversation happened as Mr L 
was able to provide the individuals name. In addition to this, Im persuaded that Ageas cut 
into the neighbours pipework but has provided no explanation or reasoning for this. Indeed, 
it hasnt been explained whether cutting into the neighbours pipe was the same activity 
which Ageas contractors claimed to form part of the remedial work.
In summary and on a provisional basis, when Mr L repeatedly informed Ageas that his leak 
wasnt fixed, I consider that it should have investigated this matter further and sent fresh 
contractors or leak detection specialists to identify and fix the issue, whether the leak was 
inside or external to the property. Indeed, I note that its contractors recognised that this 
might be necessary and identified in its notes: the only other alternative would be to appoint 
a leak detection company to address where the water is coming from. My provisional 
conclusion is that Ageas hasnt done enough to put things right in relation to what is likely to 
be an insured peril. I dont consider it fair or reasonable to expect Mr L to submit a new claim 
or pay a further excess fee under a different peril and I agree with the investigators 
conclusion in this respect.
On a provisional basis, I also consider that the inconvenience and distress caused to Mr L 
has been substantial and hes had to experience it for far longer than necessary. Whilst I am 
satisfied that Ageas contractors tackled a drainage problem which had been detected, it 
should have promptly recognised and accepted that this did not resolve the leak. Mr L 
informed it that this was the case within a few days of the contractors attending the property. 
Ageas should have taken the responsibility of appointing a leak detection specialist as soon 
as the on-going problem was reported by Mr L. Ultimately, he had to tell Ageas on multiple 
occasions that the leak was still present.
Mr L has now been living with this issue for 18 months and it appears to be no closer to
being resolved. This has undoubtedly caused on-going distress and inconvenience. Ive
seen no evidence that Ageas has tried to proactively assist Mr L in getting to the bottom
of the issue. Whilst water leaks can be complicated to trace and resolve as the source is
often hidden or buried, Mr Ls insurance policy would have given him peace of mind that
he would be covered in the event of such difficulties. In the circumstances, and on a
provisional basis, I consider that compensation of £500 would better reflect the level of
inconvenience and distress caused to Mr L for an extended period.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Mr L and Ageas if they had any further comments or 
evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr L and Ageas have accepted the provisional decision in full. In the circumstances, 
Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the 
matter and I uphold Mr Ls complaint as follows.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and to require Ageas Insurance 
Limited to do the following in response to his complaint: -
- To promptly appoint an independent leak detection specialist to assess the issue and to 
promptly arrange for an independent specialist contractor to fix the leak, OR
- At Ageas option, to allow Mr L to appoint his own specialists as above and reimburse Mr L 
the total costs of detection and repair on receipt of formal invoices paid by Mr L.
- To pay Mr L £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay 
in resolving this issue, within 28 days of his acceptance of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman