DRN-3966940
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Saga Services Limited trading as Saga Insurance Services (Saga), 
didnt tell her she would be charged a cancellation fee when she called to cancel her car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Saga are the intermediary for Mrs Vs car insurance policy. Her policy renewed on 29 
September 2022 and her annual premium was £138.19. Shortly after this, Mrs V says her 
car broke down, and it would have cost her too much to repair, so she intended to dispose of 
it. 
She called Saga on 24 October 2022 to let it know she wanted to cancel the policy. Mrs V 
says she wasnt told over the phone that she would be charged a £25 arrangement fee and 
a £50 cancellation fee, and that a refund would be determined by the accounts department, 
who would take into account a number of factors including claims history. 
It was only later on 5 November 2022 that Mrs V noticed that shed received a refund for 
£55.13, which was much less than she was expecting. She contacted Saga to let it know 
and asked for the policy to be reinstated. She says that if she had known about the fee, she 
would have kept the policy running in case she was able to get a new car within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Saga said that it was now too late to reinstate the policy. It said it had listened to the call she 
had with the representative when she cancelled the cover. It accepted that it didnt 
specifically mention the arrangement fee and cancellation fee and offered Mrs V £15 to say 
sorry. 
The Investigator looked into Mrs Vs complaint. The Investigator thought that the charges 
were detailed in documents both pre and post renewal and so while Saga may not have 
specifically told Mrs V about the fees on the call, it wasnt unfair of it to have charged a fee. 
The Investigator agreed that Saga could have been clearer in the call about the fee, and so it 
thought that the £15 Saga had already offered Mrs V was a fair amount to compensate her. 
The Investigator did explain though that because the policy had been cancelled, by the time 
Mrs V noticed the refund and wanted to reinstate the cover, too much time had elapsed and 
so they didnt think it was unfair of Saga not to reinstate the cover. 
Mrs V didnt agree with the Investigators view. She said:
In my own case I felt that the fact I had only very recently renewed the policy, and the fact 
that the cancellation fee alone comprised over half my premium, should have prompted 
some comment by SAGA that would have instantly stopped me from cancelling. Instead, as 
far as I recall, it was the SAGA lady herself who broached the subject of the refund, just 
telling me she could not say how much it would be, that this would be determined by the 
accounts department and would depend on facts like whether there had been any claims on 
the policy (which there had not). Suffice to say, given the short period of cover, and no 
claims, I thought I would receive a refund. Again, it could be seen from my record by the 
SAGA member of staff during the cancellation call that the cancellation fee alone 
represented over half of my annual premium! I know I should have read the policy 
documentation, but I also feel strongly that SAGA should have alerted me and indeed all 
customers, to the cancellation fee during the cancellation call. If it is the case that SAGA 
customer services department have to adhere to a rigid script when customers call to cancel, 
and this does not include mention of a cancellation fee, then I am firmly of the opinion that it 
should!
Because Mrs V didnt agree with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs V, but I 
wont be upholding her complaint. 
Mrs V has already explained that she isnt complaining about the fee itself. Shes more 
unhappy that she wasnt told about the fee when she called Saga to cancel the cover. And 
had she have known about the fee, she might not have chosen to cancel the cover and 
waited until shed got a new car. 
I have listened to the call Mrs V had with the representative of Saga when she called to 
cancel the cover. Mrs V confirmed during the call that she was no longer the owner of the 
vehicle and that she would like to cancel policy. The advisor confirmed the policy wouldnt 
cancel until midnight and they also said, because youre cancelling your policy mid-term you 
may be due a refund less any applicable administration fees. The representative checked 
Mrs V was happy to go ahead with cancellation, to which she confirmed she was. 
So, while the representative didnt explicitly mention the arrangement or cancellation charge, 
they did let Mrs V know that there might be an administration fee that would be considered 
when issuing a refund. So, I cant agree that Mrs V wasnt told about the administration fees. 
Mrs V didnt ask the representatives any further questions on what this meant and so I dont 
see that there was any reason for the representative to have discussed this with Mrs V in 
more detail. 
I have taken on board Mrs Vs comments in that the representative should have explicitly 
told her about the amount of the fee, given how much her premium was; but Mrs V told the 
representative that she wanted to cancel the cover because she no longer had the car. As 
far as the representative was likely aware, there was no longer a vehicle to insure and so a 
discussion (without being prompted) about how much the fees were, probably didnt seem 
relevant  especially as Mrs V hadnt mentioned her intention to get a new car and 
potentially continue with the cover. So again, I cant find that Saga did anything wrong here.
Looking at the renewal documents that were sent to Mrs V both before and after the policy 
renewed, I can see that the charges were shown in the documents. The renewal document 
says:
An arrangement fee will be charged under a separate contract between you and Saga 
Services Ltd for arranging your policy. Saga will also charge a fee if you wish to cancel your 
policy.
We will charge the following arrangement and cancellation fees: £25 for arranging your policy (non refundable);
 £5 if you cancel your policy within 20 days of your policy start date;
 £50 if you cancel your policy after 20 days of the policy start date.
So again, I think Saga did notify Mrs V how much she would be charged if she cancelled the 
policy mid-term.
I do empathise with the situation Mrs V has found herself in though. The administration 
charges were proportionately high in comparison to her premium. So, I can understand why 
in hindsight she is now saying that she might not have gone ahead with the cancellation. But 
as Ive said, the administration charges had been made clear to Mrs V prior to her renewing 
the policy  and administration charges were also mentioned during the phone conversation. 
So, I cant fairly say Saga have done anything wrong.
I also dont find that Saga did anything wrong when it said it wouldnt reinstate the policy. 
Mrs V confirmed on the phone that she was happy to go ahead with the policy cancellation. 
And it was confirmed to her that the policy would cancel at midnight. Once a policy is 
cancelled, they generally wont be reinstated.  
Saga has said it could have been clearer during the phone call about the charges  and so it 
offered Mrs V £15  it is now up to Mrs V to decide if she wants to accept this payment or 
not (if she hasnt already done so).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman