DRN-3931638
The complaint
Mr C complains about West Bay Insurance Plcs handling of a claim made under his gadget 
insurance.
What happened
Mr C has a gadget insurance policy underwritten by West Bay which covers his Apple mobile 
phone.
He made a claim when the cameras on the phone werent working. West Bay accepted the 
claim and had the phone fixed.
Mr C says the replacement cameras on the phone arent genuine Apple parts. And he says 
the screen isnt functioning properly after the phone came back from the repairer.
He made a complaint to West Bay. They said they were happy to fix any problem with the 
phone, through their repairer. 
They said the cameras were genuine Apple parts  although the policy terms allowed them 
to use non-branded parts. And they hadnt replaced the screen on the phone, though they 
may have re-glazed it, so their repairer wasnt responsible for the issues with the screen.
Mr C wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. He wants West Bay 
to pay for the phone to be repaired by Apple or to replace it. He doesnt want to send the 
phone back to the repairer who he thinks may be responsible for the current issues with his 
phone.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think West Bay had done anything wrong He felt 
they should be given a chance to mend the phone. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with the policy Mr C bought from West Bay. Theres no real dispute here about what 
this says.
It says, in short, that West Bay will repair a phone thats been accidentally damaged or has 
broken down. And only if they cant repair it, theyll replace it (with a similar phone  this isnt 
a new-for-old policy).
And it says repairs will be carried out  by West Bays chosen supplier - using readily 
available parts, which may sometimes be unbranded.
West Bay repaired Mr Cs phone  as promised  they replaced the cameras, which are 
presumably now working, with Apple components. Mr C didnt like the fact he got an auto-
message on his phone saying the camera parts werent authentic.
This message appears to show up on Apple phones when parts are replaced  even with 
Apple components. I think Mr Cs argument on this point should be with Apple, not West 
Bay.
Mr C says the screen has now malfunctioned and on occasion goes blank whilst hes on a 
call. West Bay say their repairer may have re-glazed the screen but didnt replace the 
display itself or any of the components around it.
Its conceivable that West Bays repairer in some way damaged the screen when re-glazing 
it. Its also conceivable its a new problem which has arisen since the repair. I dont believe 
theres a way to find out definitively.
But thats of little consequence because West Bay are offering to do what the policy says 
theyll do and repair the screen (if possible), no matter whats causing the problem. If a repair 
isnt possible, I assume they will replace the phone, as the policy says.
I can understand why Mr C would like his phone to be repaired by Apple. There is a widely-
held view that Apple devices are hostile to third party repair  whether intentionally on 
Apples part or not.
Apple repairs are relatively expensive. Mr C tells us thats why he chose to use his insurance 
policy rather than have Apple repair his cameras (his phone presumably being outside any 
warranty or guarantee period). 
Again, any issue with the cost of Apple repairs or the difficulties with third party repair of 
Apple devices are Apples responsibility, not West Bays.
In that context, it would be entirely unfair to West Bay to require them to pay for an Apple 
repair of Mr Cs phone when they havent as yet had any chance to rectify the problem with 
the screen.
They are offering to do what the policy says they will do and fix Mr Cs phone through their 
own repairer. Theres no evidence to allow us to conclude that the repairer caused the issue 
with Mr Cs screen.
The policy terms are very clear, theyre not hidden in the small print, theyre not onerous or 
unfair to the customer and they are fairly standard for this kind of insurance.
Its reasonable to conclude that Mr C knew  or should have known  what he was buying 
when he bought the policy. And West Bay have done nothing wrong in offering to do what 
the policy terms say they will do. 
Mr C says he thinks the repairer may do further damage to the phone. Thats entirely 
hypothetical. And if they do, then hell be able to deal with that through West Bay. They are 
obliged, according to the policy terms, to put Mr C back in the position he was in before the 
insured event occurred  i.e. with a functioning phone of around the same age and condition 
as his current one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman