DRN-3504623
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd lent to him irresponsibly in relation to three credit cards. 
What happened
Mr M applied for the first credit card online in March 2015. His application data included that 
he was employed and had a gross income of £19,500 a year. NewDay provided the card 
with a limit of £100, which it increased to £250 in February 2016. 
Mr M applied for the second credit card online in July 2016. His application data included 
that he was employed and had a gross income of £25,100 a year. This card was provided 
with a limit of £250, which was increased several times subsequently.
In October 2018, Mr M applied for a third NewDay credit card online. His application data still 
indicated that he was employed but also that his gross annual income had dropped to 
£21,500. This card was provided with a limit of £300 and this wasnt increased.
In 2021 Mr M complained to NewDay. He said it had lent to him irresponsibly regarding the 
credit cards and that it hadnt carried out sufficient checks prior to offering the credit cards 
and limit increases. 
NewDay responded to say it was satisfied it had lent to him appropriately and in line with its 
acceptance criteria. It said it had considered a range of information when looking at his 
applications including that provided by credit reference agencies, any existing account 
behaviour with NewDay and the information provided with the relevant applications.
Unhappy with NewDays response, Mr M complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and recommended that it should be upheld in part. They believed NewDay was 
entitled to provide the first credit card with the original credit limit granted. But the 
investigator thought that NewDay shouldnt have offered Mr M the credit limit increase in 
relation to that card or offered the second and third credit cards at all. They said that, to put 
things right for Mr M, NewDay should pay him back for the interest and charges incurred on 
the first credit card from February 2016 for balances over £100 with interest. The investigator 
asked NewDay to do the same for the second and third credit cards from the start of each 
credit card, and remove all adverse information relating to the credit limit increase and the 
second and third credit cards from his credit file.   
Mr M didnt dispute the investigators findings but NewDay disagreed with them. It said there 
was no reason to think Mr M was in any financial difficulty prior to the lending or until he 
informed it of this in July 2020. NewDay rejected the investigators finding that it could have 
linked the second and third credit cards and factored them into its decision-making as it had 
limited details from Mr M with which to do so.  
Because the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to 
review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Im not going to address the lending decision regarding the first credit card in detail here. 
Thats because Mr M hasnt substantially responded to that (or any other) aspect of the 
investigators assessment issued before the complaint came to me. But I confirm that I 
broadly agree with the investigators findings on it and their reasoning. In summary, I believe:
The evidence NewDay obtained in 2015 showed Mr M had an income of £19,500 but 
also a relatively low level of unsecured debt, which stood at £400.
The credit checks NewDay carried out showed defaulted accounts but none in the 40 
months leading up to the application. There was little else of concern in the results of 
its credit checks. 
There was little sign that Mr M was in financial difficulty at that time. The checks 
NewDay had carried out were, on balance, reasonable and proportionate.
With a relatively low credit limit of £100, it follows that the minimum monthly 
payments would also have been relatively low. 
There was insufficient reason overall for NewDay to suspect, given the checks it had 
carried out, that Mr M might struggle to sustainably afford the credit card repayments. 
Ill now focus on the aspect of the complaint that remained in dispute following the 
investigators assessment  that is, NewDays decision to offer the credit limit increase on 
the first credit card and its decisions to offer the second and third credit cards. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold that part of the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if NewDay treated Mr M 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit in 2016 and 2018. These include:
1) Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would 
be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
The rules that NewDay had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Mr M could afford to repay the credit being offered. This is often 
referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks NewDay needed to carry out, but they did set 
out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I 
think what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of NewDays checks needed 
to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the interest rate, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of customer 
vulnerability.  
The checks NewDay needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the credit back would cause Mr M any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for her. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate being charged. 
This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And, because of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be more 
thorough if Mr M had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for him to 
meet the credit card repayments with a low income. 
NewDay would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on Mr Ms income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether NewDay completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay the credit in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the credit limit increase and the second and third 
credit card applications are as follows:
The annual interest rates (APR) that applied to the credit cards were between 49.9% and 
69.9%.
Mr M was recorded by NewDay as having a gross yearly income of between £21,500 
and £25,100 when he applied for the second and third credit cards. 
The credit limits of £250 (up from £100), £250 and £300 were, in themselves, fairly low 
particularly when compared with Mr Ms recorded earnings. 
Its unclear what information NewDay relied on from Mr M regarding the credit limit increase 
for the first credit card, if any, despite more than doubling the limit. In its final response to 
Mr Ms complaint, it said it had carried out an in-depth evaluation of each credit limit 
increase. This included instances where Mr M had exceeded the existing credit limit, missed 
payments, or made them late, how he used the credit limit, how he managed other accounts 
with NewDay, access to other credit and so on. 
While I accept NewDay may have made those checks in response to the complaint in 2021, 
Ive seen little to suggest it carried them out at the time of the lending. Or that NewDay 
asked Mr M for updated personal information such as his income. This is despite the lending 
decision being made almost a year after Mr Ms initial credit card application.
Given the time that had passed between Mr Ms initial credit card application and NewDays 
offer of a credit limit increase  and the uncertainty surrounding Mr Ms financial situation by 
February 2016  I dont believe NewDay completed reasonable and proportionate checks in 
the circumstances as it should have done.   
When NewDay assessed Mr Ms applications for the second and third credit cards, it used 
information provided by him at the relevant times as well as through checking some of his 
credit details via a credit reference agency. It said the checks it made showed Mr M had 
other active accounts at these times, but with no evidence of current arrears, defaults, or 
adverse public records. There was evidence of money owed or owing for payday loans but 
only at the time of the application for the first credit card. That said, I think some of the information NewDay held about Mr M regarding how he was 
managing his first credit card cast his financial situation in a less favourable light. 
Specifically, the information provided by the credit reference agencies NewDay had 
instructed shows that, by May 2016, hed been flagged as experiencing at least some 
degree of financial difficulty. The flag remained for four consecutive months until August 
2016. Although the information Mr M provided to NewDay suggested he had no other active 
cards, we know that wasnt the case. Considering Mr M already had a credit card with 
NewDay, Im satisfied ought to have picked up on the discrepancy and carried out further 
checks.
Although NewDay says it wouldnt reasonably have been aware of Mr Ms other credit card, I 
believe it had adequate information with which to establish the facts. For example, and as 
NewDay accepts, Mr M applied for all his credit cards using the same name, date of birth 
and email address. Although some of the details Mr M provided differed, I think it probably 
could have used the common details to match the accounts.
Regarding the third credit card taken out in October 2018, Mr M declared a total unsecured 
borrowing balance of £200. But his existing NewDay credit card accounts had a combined 
balance of well over £3,000 by that time  the balance on one of these cards even exceeded 
the limit. As I say, Im satisfied NewDay had sufficient information to be put on notice that 
there were discrepancies with some of the application details it had received. 
I think this ought to have led NewDay into completing further checks. These checks would 
have helped it to determine whether Mr M could sustainably afford to repay the increased 
credit card limit on the first card and the limit for the second and third credit cards.
As Ive already alluded to, NewDays internal lending policy isnt a determining factor in this 
case. The question is more one of whether it acted in accordance with the lending rules and 
regulations at the relevant times, which required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that the Mr M could sustainably afford to make the repayments in 
respect of the credit facilities he was being provided with. Bearing in mind the above, I dont 
believe the checks NewDay carried out prior to it offering the credit limit increase in relation 
to the first credit card or the second and third credit cards showed Mr M could sustainably 
afford to make the repayments. I dont think that the checks were, on balance, reasonable 
and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
In terms of the credit limit increase on the first credit card, I think it would have been 
reasonable for NewDay to check how Mr M was managing the card with the existing limit of 
£100. These would have been in addition to any checks it carried out and to establish that he 
was able to sustainably afford the increased credit card repayments.
The information NewDays provided shows the activity on the credit card. This includes one 
late fee added in late 2015 and instances of overlimit fees being charged. There were also 
occasions where Mr M had made small cash withdrawals. 
In isolation these might not be definitive indicators of financial difficulty, but they do suggest 
there might have been problems. Significantly, copy bank statements show Mr M had also 
arranged several payday loans in the six months leading up to the credit limit increase.Im satisfied this information would have helped NewDay develop a picture of Mr Ms 
financial situation at that time.
These show that, broadly, Mr M was reliant on debt to get by. Payday loans are known to be 
an expensive way to borrow and were likely to be an indicator that he was struggling 
financially.  
I believe this ought to have given NewDay significant cause for concern in offering the 
lending that it did. 
If anything, I consider that proportionate checks made in July 2016 and October 2018 would 
have shown Mr M was struggling even more than he had been previously. For example, the 
credit report hes provided us with shows defaults logged on a credit card (with another 
provider) in July and August 2016. I realise this was just after the second credit card was 
granted but I think its more likely than not that that the defaults were preceded by account 
arrears prior to Mr Ms application. This would have suggested to NewDay that Mr M wasnt 
managing his finances well. 
Did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
That Mr M was flagged by the credit reference agencies as being in financial difficulty (at 
least to some degree), owed more than hed let on in applying to NewDay for credit and was 
in default at various times during the period in question all indicate to me that he was 
struggling financially. 
I believe the indications are that borrower focussed checks by NewDay would have 
highlighted that Mr Ms financial situation was such that the credit he was offered at various 
times was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him.
For these reasons, I think that NewDay should have realised in the circumstances that it was 
unlikely Mr M would have been able to cope with the credit it was offering and that it wasnt a 
fair decision to lend to him on those occasions. 
Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that NewDay acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way.
Putting things right
NewDay should put things right for Mr M in relation to the credit limit increase on the first 
credit card and the second and third credit cards from the start, albeit hes had the benefit of 
the money borrowed and so may need to repay the principal amounts. So, NewDay should: 
Rework the account for the first credit card to ensure that, from February 2016, 
interest is only charged on the first £100 outstanding  to reflect the fact that no 
further credit limit increases should have been provided.
Rework Mr Ms current credit card balances for the second and third credit cards so 
that all the interest, fees and charges applied to them from the start are removed.
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, 
NewDay should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
the credit file. And
 
If the refund means theres no remaining balance on any of the accounts, any extra 
should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr M. 
And
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require NewDay Ltd to 
put things right for Mr M as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman