DRN-3878336
The complaint
Ms M has complained about the way Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 treated her in 
relation to a fixed sum loan agreement she took out to buy a new mobile phone. 
What happened
Ms M says she contacted O2 to get some advice and prices on a new phone in May 2022. 
She decided on a model and O2 entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with her to pay for 
the phone. Ms M settled the agreement by paying O2 £801.52 on 4 May 2022. When Ms M 
received the handset, she said it had no charger and had a few small scratches on the rear 
camera lens. Ms M tells us she contacted O2 considering a replacement, but after speaking 
to the agent she decided to ask for a refund as she says she was given contradictory 
information. Ms M says she cancelled the order and sent the phone back on 16 May 2022. In 
summary, Ms M says she was unhappy because:
The phone was damaged. 
She found the phone for cheaper elsewhere. And it was only when she mentioned it 
that a special deduction was made. 
She was given wrong information regarding additional extras which caused the loss 
of some months of a subscription service. 
She was misled by O2, lied to, and thought the service was awful. 
Ms M says O2 told her shed receive a refund within 10 days, which didnt happen. It looks 
like O2 reinstated her subscription service, but Ms M says it let her down on multiple 
occasions and it took far longer to receive a refund than should be expected. She said O2 
promised to make the refund along with a credit of part of the £30.54 airtime she was told to 
purchase with the handset. O2 processed a refund of £821.52 on 5 July 2022 and Ms M 
received it a few days later.
Ms M complained to O2. She said shed been caused stress, pain and distress. Shed spent 
a lot of time trying to resolve things and it had impacted her health. 
O2 sent a final response to apologise for the service Ms M had received. It referred to an 
initial offer of a £10 goodwill payment that was later increased to £30. To further apologise, 
O2 raised a credit for £75 which was applied to her airtime account. 
Ms M wasnt happy with the response. She says O2s investigation was lacking in depth. 
She thought the £75 offer was an insult given the time taken to get her money back, the 
numerous conversations she had to initiate, and the impact it had had on her health. Ms M 
was also concerned about the impact of having the credit agreement on her credit file. She 
says O2 didnt adequately inform her about how the loan would work. Ms M referred the 
complaint to our service. 
Prior to our investigator looking into things, O2 looked at its complaint response again and 
felt the previous credits it provided didnt go far enough. So it offered to pay her £200 direct. 
Our investigator felt there was insufficient evidence to show the agreement was mis-sold 
because O2 couldnt provide a copy of the sales call. However, he agreed the refund took 
too long to process and he thought this had adversely impacted Ms M. He thought O2s 
£200 offer along with the other credits made were fair. He said our service wasnt able to 
consider complaints relating to the airtime contract. So he made no further 
recommendations. 
Ms M was unhappy O2 didnt have the relevant phone call. She acknowledged receiving £75 
from O2 but said the £30 received in June wasnt a gesture of goodwill, but a refund for the 
airtime tariff shed been made to take out. She said she had no issue with the subscription 
because O2 had resolved that part of the complaint. Ms M thanked the investigator but 
asked for a second opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Ms M 
and O2 that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
I also want to say Im sorry to hear the matter has caused Ms M distress, and that I thank her 
for taking the time to bring her complaint to our service. 
O2 entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Ms M for the purchase of the phone, and 
our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that things havent gone as they should have done. O2 has 
acknowledged the sale wasnt completed in the usual manner. It took around two months for 
Ms M to receive a refund after cancelling the order and returning the phone. O2 didnt do 
what it said it was going to do with the refund and for call backs. And the misinformation 
Ms M received was no doubt frustrating for her.  
Im not going to go over everything again. As I said above, were a quick informal resolution 
service. So its my role to decide if O2 have done enough to put things right. 
Ms M has acknowledged she received £75 credit. Shes explained the £30 she received was 
a refund that was due and not compensation. O2 has offered a further £200 compensation. 
So has it gone far enough? 
O2 made various mistakes made that have impacted Ms M. She mustve been very 
disappointed it took longer to receive the refund that it should have done, and I imagine it 
was disappointing not to receive call backs when promised. Ms M felt O2 was giving her 
contradictory information throughout which added to her complaint. While it looks like O2 
gave Ms M a better deal on the phone when she highlighted she could buy it cheaper 
elsewhere, O2s own notes indicate it was set up in a different way to usual. While I dont 
think O2 was trying to cause Ms M detriment here, I can understand why she was concerned 
when she found out the sale wasnt completed in the usual way. Shed been a longstanding 
customer and hadnt had this sort of issue before. Im mindful Ms M has said the matter has impacted her health. But I also have to consider 
that £200 compensation seems broadly in line with what I would have recommended had the 
offer not already been on the table. There were a number of small errors over a couple of 
months that have led to Ms M having to put in effort to resolve things. Its had a negative 
impact on her. But I think O2s overall offer fairly compensates Ms M for whats gone wrong.  
I agree its disappointing the sales call isnt available. It would have been useful to hear it to 
see what explanations were provided and to gain a better understanding of why the 
arrangement was set up this way. But as our investigator has pointed out, ultimately Ms M 
was able to come out of the contract, at no cost. So even if I were to find O2 misinformed 
Ms M or misrepresented something, I may have directed O2 to unwind the agreement  
which isnt needed now. 
All things considered, I can appreciate why Ms M is unhappy. O2 has apologised, credited 
her £75 and now offered a direct payment of £200. For completeness sake, given Ms M 
paid off the agreement straight away and ultimately cancelled the order, if not done so 
already, O2 should remove record of the loan from her credit file. Overall, I find this is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve things and Im not going to direct it to do more. I hope it helps 
to have an independent impartial review of her complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to the extent its not done so already, Telefonica UK Limited trading 
as O2 should pay Ms M £200 and remove record of the loan from Ms Ms credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman