DRN-3714857
The complaint
Mr B says he had multiple accounts with overdraft facilities with HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) and that the charges applied have been excessive, unfair and caused him financial 
difficulties. 
What happened
Mr B held three accounts with HSBC two of which were jointly held. Mr B complained to 
HSBC regarding the overdraft charges applied to the accounts which he says caused him 
financial difficulties.  
HSBC says all the charges were correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
accounts and that it supported Mr B by writing to him regarding the status of the accounts 
and asking him to contact its financial support team and providing the details of external debt 
advice organisations that could help.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought having reviewed 
Mr Bs statements from May 2016 that HSBC should refund all fees and charges applied to 
Mr Bs account from February 2017 because a review of his accounts wouldve suggested 
that there shouldve been some changes to the way it was offering overdrafts. 
HSBC disagreed. It says since 2017 it had actively assisted Mr B in reducing the overdraft 
facilities on his accounts.
So the complaint came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear this decision is only in relation to the account held in Mr Bs sole name.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from February 2017 on account 
number ending 0603.  By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr B was in no position 
to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, HSBC ought to have realised that Mr Bs use of his overdraft was 
unsustainable. Mr Bs statements over all three of his accounts show significant gambling, 
payday loans and that he was consistently overdrawn and near the top of his limit. In these 
circumstances, HSBC ought to have realised that Mr B was at a significant risk of being 
unable to repay what he already owed. 
HSBC say Mr Bs never contacted it about being in financial difficulty. But by HSBCs own 
admission it says it wrote to Mr B on a number of occasions regarding the use of his 
overdraft and asking him to reduce it. So I think it was clearly aware Mr B wasnt using the 
overdraft as intended. HSBC should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms 
and treated Mr B with forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges 
on the overdraft. 
Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of MR Bs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance on account ending 0603 so that all 
interest, fees and charges applied to it from February 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact MR B to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr 
B is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Bs credit file, HSBC should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 2017 
HSBC can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr B over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from MR Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and 
direct it pay the fair compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman