DRN-3339260
The complaint
L complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) settled a claim it made on its 
commercial insurance policy following a fire at its property.
L is a limited company and is being represented in bringing this complaint by Mr H, who is 
one of its directors. For ease Ive referred only to L throughout this decision.
What happened
In 2016, Ls building was damaged by a fire. In August 2017, L accepted a cash settlement 
from RSA of around £200,000. About £190,000 of this was for the reinstatement of the 
building. L says this offer was exclusive of VAT. Whilst L is a VAT registered business, it 
says when carrying out reinstatement work to the building, it couldnt claim any VAT back. 
So it later asked for RSA to make a further payment to cover the VAT. 
RSA said as L had accepted a cash settlement rather than reinstatement, it wouldnt make 
any further payment relating to VAT. It said the issue of VAT status would only be relevant if 
reinstatement had taken place.
L complained to RSA, but it didnt agree to change its position, so L brought the complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator said RSA had made clear the options available to L, through its broker. He 
said as the cash settlement had been accepted in full and final settlement, VAT wouldnt be 
considered. So he didnt think RSA needed to pay any further amount. 
L didnt accept that. It said if RSA had made clear that the cash settlement didnt include 
VAT, it wouldnt have gone with this option. It said it was unfair for it to lose out when RSA 
has accepted a valid claim and made a saving by offering a cash settlement rather than 
carrying out the works.
As L didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
Ive already told both parties that I intend to reach a slightly different outcome to that of our 
investigator, and that I think RSA should reimburse the VAT paid by L on any repairs, if Ls 
spend (including VAT) was over £190,000. 
I said when the cash settlement was made, it wasnt clear whether L would be carrying out 
any repairs, and as such I couldnt see any record of a discussion about VAT. And RSA had 
confirmed it hadnt taken it into account when making the cash settlement. I thought that was 
a reasonable position for RSA to take at the time. Whilst I hadnt seen any evidence L wasnt 
intending to carry out the repairs, I appreciated there was some discussion with its broker 
and RSA, and this might have formed part of the discussion.
However, I said from what Id seen, L has carried out repairs. And its accountant has 
provided a letter which sets out why L, even as a VAT registered business, cant claim the 
VAT back for the repairs to the building. I said my understanding is that in this scenario, the 
standard industry approach is that the insurer will then pay the VAT, so long as the 
policyholder can evidence it paid VAT on any works. RSAs argument is that the cash 
settlement was in full and final settlement, so it shouldnt be liable for further payments. But 
as the VAT is a standard issue, I thought the fair and reasonable outcome in this case was 
for RSA to consider it.
However, as L hasnt provided this service (or RSA) with any evidence of the VAT it has 
paid, I said RSA would only be liable to pay if L can do so. RSA would need sight of 
appropriate invoices which show VAT was paid on works carried out that were linked to the 
damage covered by the insurance claim. 
In addition, I said L may have been able to carry out the repairs for less than the cash 
settlement amount of £190,000, even once VAT was paid. If that is the case, I said RSA 
wouldnt have any amount to pay. 
RSA accepted my provisional thoughts. But said it would only consider VAT subject to:
Detailed evidence being provided to show the reinstatement work has been carried 
out to the risk address, and RSA being satisfied  the work has been carried out.
The work is in keeping with the original scope of insured work, as opposed to any 
unrelated uninsured work.
It also said the maximum amount it would consider VAT on is £190,000. 
L responded to say it thought the work (including VAT) had been done for under £190,000. 
But it still felt RSA should pay the VAT paid by L. It said it had lost the VAT duty to the 
exchequer despite having paid the VAT premium and there were no clear directions on VAT 
in their final negotiations as RSA have said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should depart from my provisional findings. 
When an insurer settles a claim by cash, its up to the policyholder what they do with that 
money. Sometimes they can get the work done for a lower cost than the cash settlement 
figure. Thats means the VAT amount  if their contractor is VAT registered  is less too.I accept Ls point that VAT wasnt specifically mentioned when the cash settlement offer was 
made. And L has said RSA should have asked more questions during the claim to determine 
whether it would be able to claim back VAT. But as set out in my provisional findings, I dont 
think that was unreasonable of RSA not to include an amount for VAT at the time. It seems 
there was some doubt over what would happen with the cash settlement amount and so I 
think it was fair in the circumstances not to include VAT in the settlement. 
L has now confirmed it carried out the works, including VAT, for under the cash settlement 
offered by RSA. So, I think its fair to say that RSA has carried out its duty under the policy 
to indemnify the policyholder for the loss. Whilst L estimates it paid £10,000 in VAT, because 
the cash settlement amount covers this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for RSA to 
pay any more. I say this because Im not persuaded that L has directly lost out as it claims. 
Unless L can show its spent more than £190k, regardless of what it spent it on, theres 
nothing further for RSA to consider. 
In summary, if L can evidence that the insured repair work (including VAT) exceeded the 
cash settlement offer of £190,000, then RSA has agreed to reimburse VAT paid by L on 
reinstatement works to the property covered by the insurance claim.
RSA will only have to reimburse VAT where it has sight of appropriate VAT invoices from L. 
And those invoices should relate to the original scope of work, in that they are linked to 
damage covered by the insurance claim, rather than any unrelated work to the building. 
But based on the evidence Ive seen, I wont be requiring RSA to make any further payment 
to L.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to make any 
further payment to L, as it hasnt been able to show that the repairs (including any VAT paid) 
exceeded the cash settlement amount of £190,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman