DRN-4224648
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent her a loan in July 2019 when it 
shouldnt have.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld but L2G disagreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
L2Gs checks were reasonable given the loan amount and the term. It asked Mrs M 
for her monthly income, living costs and searched her credit file. It also verified her 
declared income of £2,500 and found her income to be around £2,421.
L2Gs checks showed Mrs Ms living cost to be around £1,200 and it recorded her 
monthly credit commitments as £800. On these figures, Mrs M had sufficient income 
to repay meet the monthly loan repayment of £171.42.
However, L2G didnt react appropriately to the results of its checks. While Mrs Ms 
income and living costs seemed reasonable, her monthly credit commitments didnt 
align with what L2G could see from the results of its credit search.
L2G has provided a copy of its credit search and from what I can see, Mrs Ms 
monthly credit commitments on loans was around £1,368. In addition to this, she also 
had outstanding balances on two of her credit cards which totalled around £2,198.
Taking all this into account, Mrs M wouldnt have been left with any disposable 
income to meet the loan repayments. This is because her credit commitments and 
living costs were higher than her verified income.
In those circumstances, L2G shouldnt have lent to Mrs M, and it needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Mrs M has fully repaid the loan although I can see she struggled to do so. To put things right, 
L2G should:
Refund all interest fees and charges Mrs M paid because of this loan.
Add 8%* simple interest on the payments from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mrs Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Mrs M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman