DRN-2935151
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) failed to accept what he considered a 
reasonable partial settlement proposal to repay the balance on his credit card after he ran 
into difficulties making his payments. 
Mr O is being assisted with his complaint by his father Mr O Sr. 
Background
In October 2019, Mr O Sr, with Mr Os permission, contacted BOS to say that Mr O was 
struggling with the debt on his credit card as a result of a change in his employment 
situation. Mr O Sr also told BOS that Mr O had been suffering from mental health issues. 
After further discussion, Mr O Sr wrote to BOS Customer Priority Team (CPT) asking for 
the balance on the account to be reduced to £1,600.00 and agree to a repayment proposal 
with the intention to clear the balance within a year. BOS didnt agree to this and Mr O Sr 
formally complained. BOS didnt uphold the complaint as it didnt believe that it had treated 
Mr O unfairly. Mr O Sr remained dissatisfied and referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os concerns. He didnt think BOS had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O Sr, on behalf of Mr O, disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute BOS was made aware of Mr Os financial difficulty in October 2019. And 
once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties we would expect it 
to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations.
In such circumstances, ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an 
understanding of their circumstances and then assess the most appropriate way to move 
forward. However, that doesnt automatically mean writing off balances, permanently 
freezing interest and/or accepting a partial settlement.  
In this case, BOS applied a temporary interest freeze when it was first notified of Mr Os 
difficulties. This was to provide some breathing space while more appropriate longer-term 
options were explored. At this stage, it also sent Mr O an income and expenditure form and 
a medical questionnaire to complete. The income and expenditure information was returned 
to BOS but a completed medical questionnaire wasnt. 
As the income and expenditure information provided showed that Mr O had sufficient 
disposable income to repay the remaining balance within a reasonable period of time (which 
is ultimately what any assessment of affordability ought to be based on in the first place), 
BOS didnt accept Mr O seniors partial settlement offer. Instead it indicated Mr O should 
return to making his payments as normal as he could afford to do so.
I can understand why Mr O Sr is unhappy with BOS not accepting his partial settlement 
proposal. This is especially as he feels this refusal didnt recognise or acknowledge the 
genuine offer to repay most of what was owed. But as the income and expenditure 
information Mr O provided suggested that he had enough left over to repay the balance 
within a reasonable period of time (and not just make minimum payments), I dont think BOS 
actions were unfair or unreasonable here. I say this particularly because I cant see that BOS 
insisted on Mr O paying more than he could afford, or insisted on the balance being repaid 
within an unreasonably short period of time. 
Ive also thought about what Mr O Sr has said about BOS being inflexible. But its response 
to the repayment proposal was based Mr Os circumstances and what the information he 
provided suggested he was able to pay. It also said that it would consider the partial 
settlement proposal further if medical information was provided. 
I can understand why Mr O Sr might have felt this information was unnecessary as obtaining 
it had the potential to cause additional distress to Mr O. And Im really sorry to hear about   
Mr Os mental health issues. I do sympathise with what hes gone through. I would also 
agree that a lender shouldnt ask for more information than necessary. But given the income 
and expenditure information suggested Mr O could repay the outstanding balance and          
Mr O Sr asked BOS to place limitations on Mr Os ability to borrow from it in the future, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for BOS to request independent medical information here. 
And as this information wasnt provided, I dont find that BOS decision to refuse the partial 
settlement offer proposed by Mr O Sr, to be unfair.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that BOS treated Mr O unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will 
be very disappointing for Mr O (and Mr O Sr)  especially as hes been waiting some time for 
this answer. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least 
feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman