DRN-3351863
The complaint
Miss A complains that LeasePlan UK Limited, trading as Leaseplan, charged her for excess 
mileage maintenance in addition to a service she paid for. 
What happened
Miss A entered into a hire agreement with Leaseplan in early 2015. When the agreement 
ended in April 2018, Leaseplan collected the vehicle from Miss A. They said shed exceeded 
the annual mileage allowance, and so they charged her for excess mileage and excess 
mileage maintenance. 
Miss A complained to Leaseplan in September 2018. She asked for an explanation of the 
excess mileage maintenance charge and said she didnt think it was fair for them to charge 
this, because shed paid £300 for the final service of the vehicle. 
Leaseplan sent Miss A their final response to her complaint in September 2018. They said 
the charges were set out in the contract, and had been calculated in line with this, so they 
didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Miss A brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Miss A. She thought the charges had been clearly explained to Miss A, and that 
the fact that Miss A had paid for the final service didnt mean that she wasnt also 
responsible for the excess mileage maintenance charge. 
Miss A didnt agree. She said shes paid for going over her mileage allowance, and shes 
paid for an extra service, so the maintenance charge isnt fair, as its two charges for one 
thing. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Excess mileage maintenance 
Miss A chose to include optional maintenance services on her agreement. This was paid for 
by way of an additional monthly payment, and the agreement sets out that if Miss A exceeds 
the annual mileage allowance, then an excess mileage maintenance charge applies. 
Im satisfied that the charge is clearly explained in the agreement, and that Miss A did 
exceed the annual mileage allowance by around 9,700 miles. So, I think it was fair for 
LeasePlan to ask Miss A to pay £294.67 for the excess mileage maintenance charge. 
Service payment
Miss A has explained that she also paid £300 for a service of the vehicle prior to returning it, 
and so feels shes paid for the same thing twice. 
Miss A said that LeasePlan arranged the final service on the vehicle. Ive asked Miss A for 
evidence of the payment she made in respect of this service, but, due to the passage of 
time, shes unable to provide her bank statements from the time of the transaction. 
LeasePlan say they have no record of Miss A being asked to pay for a service on her 
vehicle. 
Due to no fault of either party, this complaint has been ongoing for some time, and evidence 
is no longer available that might help us to determine the exact sequence of events in 
relation to the final service. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances 
Miss As testimony has been consistent throughout her complaint to this service. That she 
considered she had paid twice for the same thing was the reason for her approaching our 
service in the first instance. She has been consistent in her explanation of what she paid for, 
and how much she paid for it. Miss A has also been able to provide details of how the 
service was arranged, and who carried it out. 
Im persuaded by the evidence I do have, and Miss As testimony, that she did pay £300 for 
a final service of the vehicle. 
The agreement sets out that the repair and maintenance service that Miss A selected covers 
the cost of servicing the vehicle in line with manufacturers guidelines. So, it seems to me 
that Miss A shouldnt have needed to pay to service her vehicle, because shed chosen to 
pay for an optional plan that covered this. 
So, I dont think it was fair for LeasePlan to ask Miss A to pay £300 for the final service of the 
vehicle. 
Miss A responded to my provision decision. She said shed tried again to obtain copies of 
her bank statements, but these hadnt arrived. Miss A accepted my provisional decision. 
LeasePlan responded to my provisional decision. They provided evidence of a service 
completed in May 2017. LeasePlan said they had no evidence of Miss A paying for another 
service, or one being completed when the vehicle was returned in 2018. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about LeasePlans comments in relation to the service. I set out in my 
provisional decision why I was persuaded that Miss A did pay £300 for the final service of 
the vehicle. I havent seen any new evidence that changes my mind on this point. So, I see 
no reason to depart from my initial findings.
 
Putting things right
Whilst Im satisfied it was fair for LeasePlan to charge Miss A £294.67 for the excess 
mileage maintenance, she has already paid £300 for a service. I understand she paid this 
direct to the dealer, but she opted for the repair and maintenance plan so that LeasePlan 
would pay for it.This means that Miss A has paid £5.33 more than she shouldve to have the car serviced. 
So, LeasePlan should waive any outstanding charge for the excess mileage maintenance 
and refund Miss A, £5.33 plus 8% simple interest from the date that she paid for the service, 
to the date the refund is paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. LeasePlan UK Limited, trading as 
Leaseplan, should waive any outstanding charge for the excess mileage maintenance and 
refund Miss A, £5.33 plus 8% simple interest from the date that she paid for the service, to 
the date the refund is paid.
If LeasePlan considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should also 
give Miss A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman