DRN-2941521
The complaint
Mr P and Miss W are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society declined their mortgage 
application.  
What happened
In November 2020 Mr P and Miss W applied for a mortgage with Nationwide. They already 
held mortgages separately. Miss Ws existing mortgage was with Nationwide. Mr Ps was 
with another business. They intended to sell their respective properties to move in together. 
As part of the application they wanted to port Miss Ws existing Nationwide mortgage to their 
new property while also taking additional borrowing.
Nationwide gave an initial decision in principal indicating it would potentially be willing to 
lend. But when the full application was submitted, it was declined.
Mr P and Miss W complained to Nationwide as they felt a mistake had been made. They 
also asked for an explanation why the application had been declined.
Nationwide said it hadnt made a mistake in declining the application. It said the reason for 
the decline was linked to Mr P having had a mortgage application declined previously, in 
2016. It explained that Mr P and Miss W could appeal its lending decision.
Mr P and Miss W indicated they wanted to appeal. At the same time, they brought their 
complaint to our service. They remained unhappy that the application had been declined and 
felt the service provided by Nationwide was poor. Specifically, it hadnt confirmed exactly 
why the application was declined, meaning they couldnt take steps to address the issues. 
They said theyd now had to look for a mortgage with another business, meaning an early 
repayment charge (ERC) was going to be incurred in relation to Miss Ws existing 
Nationwide mortgage, which wouldve been avoided if their application had been approved.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I was inclined to uphold Mr P 
and Miss Ws complaint in part. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, 
explaining why I thought this.
Nationwide is entitled to decide whether it is willing to lend or not, when considering an 
application. This is a matter of its commercial judgement. Although its initial decision in 
principal here was that it would be willing to lend, this was not a binding agreement to do so 
 as the document itself confirmed  and would be subject to a full application being 
reviewed. After assessing Mr P and Miss Ws application Nationwide said it was not willing to 
lend.
Mr P and Miss W think an error was made. Theyve noted that Miss W was already a 
customer of Nationwide and they both had good standing with regards to existing credit. But 
that doesnt necessarily mean that an application being declined was an error. There are a 
number of things that make up Nationwides lending criteria. And I havent seen anything 
that leads me to think that Nationwide made its lending decision unfairly here.
Mr P and Miss W are also unhappy that Nationwide didnt clearly explain why their 
application had been declined. I can understand why they wanted to know this  so they 
could try and address whatever the issues were. But Nationwides lending criteria is 
commercially sensitive. And if Nationwide set out in detail why a mortgage application was 
declined that would leave its policies open to manipulation. So, generally, I dont think it 
needs to give a detailed explanation as to why it has decided not to lend.
That being said, I think it shouldve done more here. And Ill explain why.
Nationwide gave a partial explanation for the application being declined to Mr P and Miss W 
in a response it issued to their complaint in December 2020. It said that the decision was 
linked to an application Mr P had made in 2016, which had also been declined. So, it did try 
to provide Mr P and Miss W with a reason for the decision. But this seems to have caused 
more confusion as, in their complaint to our service, Mr P and Miss W asked what 
information Nationwide was holding from 2016 that was causing the issue.
Nationwide has clarified to our service that it wasnt information that it was holding that led to 
the application being declined. It was information recorded with external agencies by another 
business that had led to the decline. It has said this is the same reason that Mr Ps 
application was declined in 2016  and it appeared it was the same information that was 
recorded. So, the explanation that the two applications were linked, wasnt entirely accurate. 
Rather they had been declined for the same reason.
Nationwide was not responsible for the recording of this information with external agencies, 
so wasnt responsible for removing it. And I dont think it has done anything wrong by relying 
on this information when making its lending decision. But I do think, in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint, it couldve provided a clearer explanation to Mr P and 
Miss W.
Nationwide says Mr P ought to have been aware of the information recorded by another 
business, as it informed him in 2016 that this was the reason his application was declined at 
that point. Nationwide has provided contact notes indicating Mr P was made aware of the 
issue at that time  and that it even informed him which external agency this information was 
registered with. Mr P denies that he was given a clear reason for the application being 
declined in 2016.
Regardless though, as Nationwide says it gave Mr P this information in 2016 it isnt clear 
why it couldnt have just explained this again to Mr P and Miss W when their application was 
declined in November 2020. Nationwide has indicated that this was because it didnt record 
the adverse information. And again, this is true. But as it says it already told Mr P about this, 
I see no reason it couldnt have repeated that information to him, as it was something that 
Nationwide believed it had already said. And while again, I dont think Nationwides lending 
decision was unreasonable, providing this information wouldve saved a lot of confusion and 
frustration.
I also think Nationwide made another error by not considering the application again, when it 
said it would.Nationwide issued a written response to Mr P and Miss Ws complaint at the end of 
December 2020. This explained that, while it didnt think it had made an error, they could 
appeal the lending decision. Ive heard recordings of calls Mr P had with Nationwides 
complaints department both on the day this response was issued and in the few days that 
followed. In all of these conversations Mr P confirmed that he and Miss W would like the 
lending decision to be appealed. But Nationwide has confirmed that this was not carried out 
as requested. It has provided evidence that the complaint handler logged the request. But it 
has said that this was not passed to the correct department. So, the lending decision was 
never reconsidered. Whatever the reason for that was  Im satisfied it was due to an error 
by Nationwide, not Mr P and Miss W.
As a result of this error Mr P and Miss W have missed out on the opportunity of having their 
application reconsidered. Theyve said as a result they approached a different lender for a 
mortgage, which has resulted in them incurring an ERC.
While I think Nationwide has made an error by not considering the application again, I dont 
know what the outcome of another review of the application wouldve been.
Nationwide has told us that it understands that the adverse information recorded with 
reference agencies by the other business was actually removed around the time of the 
complaint. Mr P and Miss W have said they find this suspicious. But as the information was 
not reported by Nationwide, so couldnt be removed by it, I cant say Nationwide has done 
anything wrong in relation to the recording of this information.
If the information that resulted in the initial decision to decline the application had been 
removed, this would indicate that this would no longer have been a factor if the application 
had been looked at again as requested. But, as Ive explained, there are a number of parts 
to Nationwides lending criteria. And there are a number of other reasons that Nationwide 
may have still decided not to lend in the circumstances.
Nationwide has said that even with the removal of this information there were a number of 
stages of its underwriting process remaining. This included the valuation of the property to 
ensure it would be considered sufficient security in line with Nationwides lending policies. 
So, I dont think I can reasonably say, on balance, that the application would have been 
approved.
With that in mind, I dont think I can fairly say that Nationwide needs to waive the ERC in 
respect of redeeming Miss Ws existing mortgage. My understanding is that the charge was 
applied in line with the terms of the agreement Miss W made with Nationwide, and she and 
Mr P were aware it would be incurred in the event the mortgage was repaid in full.
I do though think the poor service provided by Nationwide  in giving only part of an 
explanation of the reason for the decline when it could very reasonably have said more and 
by not considering the application again as Mr P and Miss W requested several times  has 
caused them unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And I think itd be fair for Nationwide 
to pay them compensation to address this.
Ive thought about what would be fair, in the circumstances. As Ive said, Nationwide is 
entitled to decide whether to lend or not. At least part of the upset caused to Mr P and 
Miss W was due to their application being declined. But this wasnt done in error. So, they 
would always have suffered some upset as a result of this. But the poor service has made 
things worse, unnecessarily. And applying for a mortgage is already a stressful time. So, 
taking everything into account, I think Nationwide should pay Mr P and Miss W £250, for the 
upset caused by the poor service it provided to them here.Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Nationwide said it had nothing further to add.
Mr P and Miss W reiterated that their complaint was about how the rejection of their 
application and appeal were handled by Nationwide. They said Nationwides communication 
was poor and that it was only after theyd contacted Nationwide that they learned the 
application had been rejected. They said they were ignored on a number of occasions by 
Nationwide and that it caused delays.
While their application may have been considered fairly, they said their appeal wasnt. They 
said theyd managed to obtain a mortgage with a high street lender since, so felt Nationwide 
didnt have a justifiable reason not to progress their appeal, after the information recorded by 
another party was removed.
They said they were concerned their appeal hadnt been considered and wanted to know 
why. This was because Mr P and Miss W felt Nationwides processes potentially needed 
reviewing, as they said they were concerned that this could happen again to someone else.
Finally, in terms of the information that had led to the application being declined, they said 
Mr P was not made aware of this in 2016 and they only learned of this issue after 
complaining to our service. And he and Mss W are still unaware what this information 
actually was.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional findings, Nationwide has provided information that suggests it 
made Mr P aware in 2016 of the reason his application at that time was rejected. Mr P says 
he wasnt told this. But Im not looking at what happened in 2016, Im looking at Mr P and 
Miss Ws application in 2020. And as I explained in my provisional decision, I think 
Nationwide couldve done more here and provided a more constructive explanation of why 
the application was declined. 
Mr P and Miss W have said they are still unaware what the information was that was 
recorded by another business with external agencies. And I appreciate their frustration. But 
Im satisfied Nationwide wasnt responsible for recording this information. And, Im conscious 
it now appears to have been removed. As Nationwide didnt record the information, it doesnt 
know why this has happened. So, in the circumstances, I dont think it is necessary for it or 
our service to comment further.
I also agree that Nationwide did not consider Mr P and Miss Ws appeal after they indicated 
they were unhappy with the original lending decision. And I think it should have. But while I 
take on board what theyve said about obtaining a mortgage with another lender since then, 
all lenders set their own lending criteria. Nationwide has said, and the information Ive seen 
supports, that there were still a number of things to be considered here before Nationwide 
would agree to lend, even if the issue with the information reported by another business to 
external agencies was resolved. So, I cant be certain that Nationwide wouldve granted a 
mortgage here. And as a result, I cant fairly require it to waive the ERC, as the appeal could 
have been unsuccessful, meaning this would always have been incurred.Nationwide has been unable to explain why their appeal was not considered. But overall, Im 
satisfied it was an error on Nationwides part that led to this. Mr P and Miss W have said they 
would like to know more about why this happened, but I dont think there is any more 
information that can be provided. The reason is unknown. On balance I think this was most 
likely due to a human error. But I cant say this for certain. Ultimately though, I dont need to 
know the reason to conclude that Nationwide was at fault.
Ive taken on board what Mr P and Miss W have said about Nationwide potentially needing 
to review its processes. But our service is not a regulator. And making a change to how 
Nationwide operates isnt something I can require it to do. We look at cases on an individual 
basis and decide what we think is fair and reasonable. Which is what Ive done here.
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwide couldve provided better service here. And that the 
level of service it did provide caused unnecessary further distress. But having thought about 
everything again, for the reasons Ive explained, I remain of the opinion that a payment of 
£250 by Nationwide for the upset caused by its actions is a fair and reasonable way to 
address the errors it has made here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I partially uphold Mr P and Miss Ws complaint.
To put things right I order Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr P and Miss W £250.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman