DRN-2392215
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined his critical illness claims on two 
of his policies. He is also unhappy Aviva didnt amend its terms and conditions to provide 
cover for severe brain illnesses under the policies after they were sold. 
What happened
In 2000 Mr P took out a whole of life insurance policy with Aviva which included critical 
illness cover. Ill refer to this as policy A. In 2003 he took out a life and critical illness policy 
which Ill refer to as policy B.  
Sadly, in 2020 Mr P was diagnosed with a brain abscess. So, he made a claim to Aviva. It 
reviewed the claim but said Mr Ps illness wasnt covered under either of his policies. Mr P 
was unhappy with this response, so he made a complaint. He said his illness should be 
covered under the policy wording and that Aviva shouldve kept his policies up to date with 
policies it offered to new customers. 
Aviva reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said Mr P didnt meet the definitions of a 
benign brain tumour as set out in the terms and conditions of his policies. It said cysts and 
abscesses arent covered, so it couldnt accept the claims. It added that medical conditions 
can be added, removed or amended from the policies it offers to customers, but this only 
applies to new policies and doesnt affect the terms of existing ones. 
Mr P remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he underwent 
the same treatment as someone with a cyst or brain tumour so he should be covered. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think Mr Ps 
illness was covered under the terms and conditions. And he didnt think Mr P undergoing 
similar treatment to someone who had a cyst or brain tumour meant he should be covered 
under his policies. He added that Aviva hadnt treated Mr P unfairly by not updating his 
policies because it wasnt required to do so. 
Mr P disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said Aviva hadnt reviewed 
the medical evidence surrounding his illness because it hadnt considered when his abscess 
was discovered, where it was found, its size and the treatment he received. He feels the 
intention of the policy was to cover all growths and abnormalities within the brain outside of 
those caused by cancer, and that his brain abscess is defined the same as a tumour or a 
cyst. Mr P added that he was never told by Aviva of the fundamental changes to the 
minimum standards of cover and that current policies should be maintained in line with new 
policies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mr P and Id like to assure him I havent made this decision lightly. In 
doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence he and Aviva have provided to us  
and Id like to assure him that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent 
considered it, but to focus instead on whats important to the outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr Ps critical illness claims
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mr Ps condition should be considered a tumour. In order for me to ask Aviva to 
accept this claim, I need to be satisfied his condition meets the definition of a benign brain 
tumour as per the policy terms and conditions based upon the evidence.
Policy A covers the following; 
Benign Brain Tumour - A non-malignant tumour in the brain. Tumours or lesions in the 
Pituitary Gland are not covered.
And policy B covers;
Benign Brain Tumour - A non-malignant tumour in the brain or the meninges resulting in 
permanent organic deficit to the neurological system. Tumours or lesions in the pituitary 
gland are not covered.
Its clear that brain abscess isnt mentioned in the above wording and this is what Mr P was 
diagnosed with. As Mr P has pointed out, new policies on the market will state that brain 
abscesses are covered. I believe that if Aviva wanted to cover abscesses in Mr Ps policies 
then the above wording wouldve made that clear. So, Im not persuaded that policy A or B 
ever intended to cover an illness like the one Mr P was diagnosed with. 
Mr P has said that his treatment was similar to that of someone who had been diagnosed 
with a tumour and the definition of these conditions is the same or extremely similar. Hes 
said his consultant has mentioned his abscess was benign and caused a permanent 
abnormality in the brain. Ive considered this carefully. But I dont consider it persuasive that 
a benign brain tumour is the same as a brain abscess in these circumstances. Nor do I find it 
persuasive that because the treatment Mr P received was similar to that of a benign tumour, 
then his policies should cover his serious illness. Mr Ps consultant was quite clear when he 
diagnosed Mr P with an abscess secondary to periodontal disease (gum disease). And Ive 
not seen any persuasive evidence to show that Mr Ps diagnosis should be considered a 
tumour here as per the definition in his policies.
So, I dont think Aviva treated Mr P unfairly when it declined his claims on policy A and B.
 
Reviewing Mr Ps policies
Mr P has raised various points about industry standards as well as points of law which show 
that Aviva hasnt treated him fairly by not updating his policies in line with newer ones being 
offered to new customers. 
I note Aviva has explained it will periodically review the level of cover it offers and make 
changes or amendments to policies for new customers. It says the critical illness cover 
provided under Mr Ps policies hasnt been reviewed because it honours what is covered from the point of sale. And that it was up to Mr P to review his policies periodically either 
himself or through an independent financial advisor. 
Ive carefully considered all of the points Mr P has made here. But I dont agree that Aviva 
had to review his policies or that it had to make changes to them. If Aviva was going to make 
a change to Mr Ps policies, then it should make him aware as hes pointed out. But Im not 
satisfied Mr Ps policies have been reviewed or there were any changes to make. So, Aviva 
didnt need to contact him. This is common practice and I dont consider it to be 
unreasonable.
I know my decision leaves Mr P in a difficult position following his diagnosis and his current 
state of health. Im sorry to disappoint him, but overall, Im not satisfied Aviva has made a 
mistake or treated him unfairly here. So, Im not going to ask it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman