DRN-3732785
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society made errors in switching her current 
account to them.
What happened
Mrs B switched her current account from a third party bank to Nationwide. She says that 
based on the switch guarantee, all of her payments should have been transferred over to 
Nationwide, without her having to do anything. She says that she later found out that they 
had not set up two standing orders which were set up on her previous account, which 
resulted in her missing the payments between October 2021-January 2022. Mrs B made a 
complaint to Nationwide. She said she wanted them to pay £440 to her to cover the 
payments which had been missed.
Nationwide did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. They said that the two standing orders were 
unable to be set up during the switch due to invalid details and that their systems did not 
recognise the account number. They said the standing orders wouldve worked with the 
details with her previous bank, but not with them. They said these payments are now setup 
as Regular Transfers (RT's) and as soon as they were unable to set up the standing orders, 
they contacted Mrs B back in September 2021, to explain they needed the correct sort code 
and account details, however they didnt hear back from her until January 2022. Mrs B 
brought her complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She said that Nationwide said the account 
number and sort number of the standing orders were invalid and they also provided a copy 
of the letter they had sent to her to notify her about this. She said the letter was addressed to 
her current address and she was not aware of any specific reason why the letter may not
have arrived, so she said it was more than likely that Mrs B had been sent the letter.
Our adjudicator acknowledged that under the switch guarantee, Mrs B didnt feel the need to 
check that the standing orders had been successfully transferred, however, the onus was 
still on Mrs B to ensure her regular payments were debiting her account. While Mrs B 
mightve expected Nationwide to contact her by phone or email, they did notify her by letter, 
which was sufficient.
Mrs B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said that the two payments were being made to two other Nationwide 
accounts and she had to go into the branch and the branch staff set them up for her as she 
was unable to do so. She says the bank staff told her the payments failed due to old codes 
that they use as the two payments were going into accounts that still held passbooks. She 
said she didnt receive a letter from Nationwide and they could have emailed her like they did 
with other correspondence. She also queried the terms of the switch guarantee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mrs B from the outset that Im unable to instruct Nationwide how they should 
communicate any issues with the switch process to their members. Or what systems they 
should use when transferring payments to internal accounts held with them. This is because 
these are commercial decisions for Nationwide to make. But I will be looking into whether 
they have followed their procedures here.
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about her not receiving a letter that Nationwide say they 
sent her on 9 September 2021. And Im satisfied that she didnt receive this letter. I say this 
as its likely that if Mrs B had received this letter, she would have spoken to Nationwide as 
soon as possible to see how she could set up the payments, as opposed to these not being 
paid for several months.
So what I need to be satisfied with is that Nationwide actually sent the letter. Im satisfied 
that they did and Ill explain why. The letter that Nationwide sent shows Mrs Bs registered 
address. And it shows her switch reference number, which Nationwide have sent system 
evidence to show that the switch reference matches up with the reference on the letter. I had 
noticed that the date on the letter which they sent our service showed a later date than the 
switch date, so I queried this with them. Nationwide explained that the system they use to 
access the letter, changes the date on the letter to the date they accessed the information 
which is why it displayed a later date as they accessed the letter to send to our service.
Nationwide told me that the letter would be sent automatically if there was a problem with a 
switch, so as the process is automated and not a manual process, Im satisfied the letter was 
sent. And they had a copy of the letter they sent, as opposed to a template letter. I would not 
be able to hold Nationwide accountable for any errors with the postal system as this is out of 
their control.
Ive then considered why the two standing orders in question were not able to be set up. I 
can empathise with Mrs Bs situation here. I would not expect her to be aware of how 
different banks/building society systems work. As Nationwide have explained, they were 
unable to switch over the standing orders successfully due to how the previous bank had set 
up the standing orders. As Mrs B will be able to see, the sort code and account number for 
these two payments were the same, despite them going to different accounts. So the 
differentiation was the reference number.
As Mrs B has already noted, the two payments are to Nationwide accounts. So on the 
surface there should be no issue when she was trying to make a payment from her new 
Nationwide account, to two other Nationwide savings accounts. But due to how their system 
processes these payments, it is different to how her previous bank processed these 
payments, and as such, these payments were unable to be set up on her account on 
Nationwides system. 
Nationwide processes these types of payments as regular transfers as opposed to standing 
orders. I can see from the screenshots that Nationwide have sent me that the successful 
payments that are now being made have different sort codes and account numbers to what 
her previous bank told Nationwide. So as these details are different, Im persuaded that is why Nationwide were originally unable to set up these payments based on the original 
details from the previous bank. While this was not Mrs Bs error, it also wasnt an error on 
Nationwides part either. And they explained the situation to Mrs B in a letter on 9 
September. 
Ive looked at the wording of the current account switch guarantee. The wording shows that 
if anything goes wrong with the switch, as soon as we are told, we will refund any interest 
(paid or lost) and charges made on either your old or new current accounts that may be 
incurred if there is an error(s) with the switch.
The wording does not show that the new current account provider would pay any payments 
that were not made as part of the switch. So I cant say it would be proportionate for 
Nationwide to cover any of these costs here. I can understand why Mrs B may not have 
checked her account to see if the payments had been made from October 2021-January 
2022, as she would be under the impression that these would automatically be switched 
over. But as the payments did not leave her account, the money would have been there to 
make the payments. If she had spent this money earmarked for the regular payments, I 
could not hold Nationwide accountable for this as it would be Mrs Bs responsibility to 
ultimately manage the money in her account. So it follows I wont be asking Nationwide to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman