DRN-3042689
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) did not do enough to 
protect him from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company. 
What happened
Mr F was interested in investing and came across a company Ill refer to as I Ltd. He carried 
out his own research and decided to invest with I Ltd because he says they offered Halal 
trading accounts. Mr F couldnt recall speaking with a representative of I Ltd prior to 
investing with them but recalls being offered big and easy returns at a later stage. Mr F says 
he was not told about the withdrawal process but understood he would need to verify his 
account by providing identification documents before trading could take place. 
Mr F was provided with an account manager who assisted with trades but started 
experiencing losses. He contacted Barclaycard when he became concerned that trades 
were taking place without his account having been fully verified. 
Mr F is unhappy that Barclaycard processed his payments without I Ltd having proof of his 
identification. He called Barclaycard shortly after sending his final payment to I Ltd to ask it 
not to release the payment. 
In total, Mr F paid I Ltd £7,750 between 18 June 2017 and 26 June 2017 and received 
credits from them totalling £3,688. 
Barclaycard attempted chargeback claims on Mr Fs behalf but the claims were defended by 
I Ltds bank. It concluded it had no further options to take Mr Fs claims any further. 
Barclaycard also concluded that Mr F had no valid section 75 claim. It did recognise that it 
provided Mr F with poor service and misleading information in relation to his account 
interest. It applied credits of £138.90, £96.36 and £30 to his account to recognise its failings. 
One of our investigators didnt think that Barclaycard should do anything differently. Mr F 
disagreed, he said his argument was not about opening the wrong account with I Ltd but the 
way in which Barclaycard mishandled his payments.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
When Mr F first referred his complaint to this service, he stated that I Ltd mis-sold his trading 
account because it advertised Halal investments when this was not the case. He also 
complained that I Ltd allowed him to trade without having fully verified his account and their 
service lost his money. He lastly complained that he informed Barclaycard not to release his 
payment to I Ltd but it did so anyway. 
Ive therefore considered these issues when making my decision. 
Firstly, Ive noted that I Ltd were regulated in Cyprus at the time of Mr Fs payments and are 
still in operation, so Im satisfied they were not operating a scam investment company. Ive 
therefore considered whether Mr F had any valid chargeback grounds or a valid claim under 
section 75 that Barclaycard didnt appropriately explore. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Barclaycard) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
At the time of Mr Fs payments to I Ltd, Visa required some specific evidence for 
misrepresentation disputes involving investment trading merchants. Mr F would have 
needed to provide written evidence that I Ltd guaranteed an amount of profit or return he 
was due to receive. But this was not the nature of Mr Fs dispute claim. His dispute was that 
they mis-sold the type of trading account they offered and that they hadnt fully verified his 
account before he was allowed to trade. It follows that Mr F did not have the specific 
evidence for a chargeback claim to have succeeded under Visas dispute resolution rules. 
Therefore, I do not think that Barclaycard acted unfairly by assisting him with processing 
chargeback claims based on his testimony. It did so as a matter of its discretion and was not 
required to in absence of the specific evidence required by Visa. Once I Ltds bank defended 
the claim, Barclaycard had no valid grounds to pursue Mr Fs chargeback claims any further. 
So, based on all the above I think declining to take Mr Fs chargeback claims further was a 
fair and reasonable exercise of Barclaycards discretion. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor (Barclaycard) as they would have against the supplier of 
goods or services (I Ltd). 
In this instance, Mr F says he was induced into entering the contract with I Ltd because it 
offered Halal investments and they misrepresented themselves on this basis. Mr F hasnt 
provided any evidence to support this claim and Ive not independently found any that would 
suggest this was the case. It follows that Mr F hasnt established a valid claim of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against I Ltd that would mean Barclaycard should 
return his money.
 
Barclaycard mishandling Mr Fs payments
Both parties agree that Mr F contacted Barclaycard within 24 hours of his final payment to I 
Ltd asking for the payment not to be processed and at the material time of the call, the 
transaction was listed as pending. 
I appreciate Mr F feels that Barclaycard should not have processed the payment to I Ltd as 
he hadnt fully verified his trading account. But Barclaycard could not have known this at the 
time he authorised this payment. Once he authorised the payment, Barclaycard were 
obligated to pay it; either immediately, or at a later stage. So, I dont think Barclaycard 
mishandled his payment. In any event, Ive noted Mr Fs Barclaycard account was credited with £3,500 from I Ltd 
within 24 hours of it receiving this payment. As Mr F authorised a payment of £3,500 to I Ltd 
within the timeframe of him being refunded this amount and hes made no other payment of 
£3,500 in a single transaction to them, Im satisfied this was the amount he had returned to 
him. So, I dont think his concerns about Barclaycards mishandling of this payment caused 
him any financial loss as this money was returned to him very quickly.
I do think Barclaycard provided poor customer service to Mr F, but I agree that the 
compensation it paid him by way of an apology was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so I make no further award on this point. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman