DRN-3748450
The complaint
Miss D complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card application and later increased the credit limit.
What happened
Miss D applied for a credit card with Aqua in 2016. It was approved with an initial credit limit 
of £300. The credit limit was increased to £900 in November 2016, to £1700 in April 2017 
and to £3200 in December 2020.
Miss D complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit card. Aqua 
didnt agree and didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. Miss D referred her complaint to this 
service, and it was passed to an investigator. She upheld the complaint and said she didnt 
think NewDay had acted fairly when it increased the credit limit to £1700. NewDay didnt 
agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible lending is set out on our website. Ive had 
this approach in mind when considering Miss Ds complaint.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D 
could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things such as how much was being lent, the repayment amount and Miss Ds income and 
expenditure and credit history.
Account opening
I think NewDay completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. It reviewed 
Miss Ds credit file and gathered information about her income and outgoings. I dont think 
the information gathered would have given cause for concern. I dont think it would have 
been proportionate for NewDay to have completed further checks.
Credit limit increase to £900
NewDay has said that it checked Miss Ds credit file and considered the information it 
already held about her income and expenditure before it approved the first credit limit 
increase. It also took account of Miss Ds account performance since the account was 
opened.
Because the credit limit was increased significantly, I think it wouldve been proportionate if, 
in addition to the checks already carried out, NewDay had carried out further checks to find 
out more about Miss Ds income and expenditure, including other credit commitments at this 
time.
Because of this, Ive looked at Miss Ds bank statements for the period prior to the credit limit 
increase. These show that Miss D had essential expenditure of around £1210 and income of 
around £2385, leaving monthly disposable income of around £1175. Based on this, Im 
satisfied that the credit limit was affordable for Miss D. And I think NewDay wouldve reached 
the same conclusion if it had looked at this information. So I think the credit limit was 
increased fairly.
Credit limit increase to £1700
Because this was a significant increase in credit, I think NewDay shouldve carried out 
further checks to find out more about Miss Ds income and expenditure.
Because of this Ive looked at Miss Ds bank statements for the period prior to the credit limit 
increase. These show that her essential expenditure was around £2420 with income of 
around £2385, leaving monthly disposable income of minus £35.
Because Miss Ds credit commitments had increased significantly, and because her 
disposable income was in a deficit position, I dont think NewDay would have approved the 
credit limit increase it it had looked at this information. So I dont think the decision to 
increase the credit limit was fair. It was irresponsible of NewDay to create further 
indebtedness for Miss D.
Putting things right
To settle Miss Ds complaint NewDay should:
Remove any interest and charges incurred after April 2017 as a result of the credit limit 
increase. That is, NewDay can only add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit 
of £900 
Remove all interest and charges incurred on the account since April 2017 (because no new 
purchases shouldve been allowed after this date) 
Calculate how much Miss D would have owed after the above adjustments. Any repayments 
made by Miss D since April 2017 should be used to reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance, the balance should be refunded to Miss D along with 8% 
simple interest calculated from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement
If after the adjustments have been made Miss D no longer owes any money, then all 
adverse information relating to this account should be removed from her credit file from April 
2017
If an outstanding balance remains, NewDay should agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Miss D. Once Miss D has cleared the balance, any adverse information should be removed 
from her credit file.
HMRC require NewDay to deduct tax from the refund of interest. It must provide Miss D with 
a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for this.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to take the steps set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman