DRN-4164219
The complaint
Mr H complains about the delays that he says ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) caused during 
the process of setting up joint life annuities for his three pension plans. He says the delay in 
making the payments three months after his selected retirement date (SRD) has stretched 
his finances to the limit and caused him a great deal of stress over a period of some 
months. He also wants to ensure this doesnt happen to other investors and would like 
pension providers to be clearer in its explanations to customers approaching their retirement 
age. 
What happened
Mr H held three pension plans with ReAssure which had SRDs of 10 November 2021. So in 
July 2021 he contacted ReAssure to look at his options for drawing his pension benefits. 
Mr H said he had to chase ReAssure for the information from August 2021 and in 
October 2021 he contacted it to add his partner to the policies. This became a request for 
joint life annuity illustrations which, because at one point Mr H provided an incorrect date of 
birth for his partner, meant the illustrations werent received until December 2021 and 
January 2022. ReAssure said it received all the outstanding information to set up the annuity 
payments on 14 February and 28 March 2022  which were the start dates for Mr Hs 
annuities. 
But because Mr H had become frustrated with the process, he had complained in 
December 2021 about the delays to his payments. In its response to that complaint 
ReAssure said that, because of the high volume of customer enquiries at that time, it had 
taken longer than it would normally expect to provide Mr Hs retirement quotes. It sent him 
payment of £150 for the inconvenience this had caused. 
When Mr H returned the necessary forms to start the annuity for one of his policies he 
complained about the lack of investigation into the delay around his other two policies. He 
said the offer of £150 for the distress and inconvenience was unsatisfactory. He once again 
highlighted the time ReAssures letter had taken to reach him and restated his earlier 
request for all correspondence to be sent via email where possible. 
ReAssure apologised for not responding to Mr Hs further complaint and said it should have 
completed a thorough investigation of the other two policies as well. It paid him a further 
£350 for the delay in responding and not addressing the issue when it was first raised. But 
Mr H remained dissatisfied with the outcome and brought his complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. 
She said the complaint should be upheld as she believed ReAssure had caused delays in 
providing Mr Hs retirement quotes and issuing the necessary option forms. She thought that 
if ReAssure hadnt caused these delays Mr H would have been able to access his benefits 
on or around his retirement date in November 2021. So she said ReAssure should pay Mr H 
the value of the annuities and any additional tax free cash (TFC) lump sum should their 
value been greater on his retirement date. She also said the offer of a total of £500 for the 
trouble and upset caused by the delay was fair and reasonable in this case.
ReAssure didnt agree. It said some of the delay had been caused because Mr H wanted to 
add his partner to the policies, so it had to do a recalculation to provide joint life quotations. It 
said Mr H had provided the wrong date of birth for his partner which it had to then contact 
him to correct. It also thought he had taken additional time to return the retirement option 
forms. So it thought that both sides were responsible for the delays and its payment of £500 
in total for its part in the matter was fair in the circumstances.  It thought it had used the 
correct dates to start the annuities based on the date it received all the outstanding 
requirements to process the claim. 
The investigator asked ReAssure to confirm the issue around Mrs Hs date of birth. So 
ReAssure said that, having listened to the call from 11 November, it said that Mr H had 
provided an incorrect date of birth for his partner, which was corrected by him on 
3 December 2021. It also said it was working to at least 20 day turnaround times due to the 
backlog of work after the pandemic, which it thought supported the times taken to reissue 
illustrations. 
The investigator said that ReAssures information didnt change her view of things by more 
than a few days and she still believed the annuity could have been paid out by Mr Hs SRD. 
ReAssure said that Mr H had called on 20 October 2021 to add his partner to the policy 
which was the reason for the three day turnaround (different to requesting joint life 
illustrations). It said that during the conversation Mr H was asked if he wanted his partner to 
be included on the annuity so she would continue to receive lifetime payments in the event 
of his death. ReAssure said it didnt ask for her date of birth but did explain to Mr H that it 
would take 20 working days to process the illustrations. 20 days later it tried to contact Mr H 
for the date of birth and when he provided it to ReAssure the following day, it was incorrect.
 
ReAssure then set out its timeline for providing illustrations  which had to be reworked due 
to the incorrect date of birth, and for issuing the option forms it required. It said that, as it had 
already paid Mr H £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused, it didnt think it was 
reasonable for it to have to backdate the annuities as Mr H had changed the basis of his 
requested quotations and then provided incorrect information for his wife. 
 
The investigator remained of the same opinion that ReAssure had caused considerable 
delays  including over 20 days to confirm Mr Hs partners date of birth and 30 days to issue 
the quotes. She cited examples where tasks had taken longer than the stated turn around 
times and information hadnt been provided in the form it had been suggested it would. She 
said the annuity payment should be backdated in line with her recommendation.
So as no resolution could be found the complaint was passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said the complaint should be upheld but I proposed an 
alternative redress methodology and some different reasons for reaching my conclusion. I 
made the following points in support of my findings:
I looked at the delays that occurred after October 2021, but I thought it was difficult to 
specify exactly where the errors and delays occurred during that time. But as Mr H 
only received all his illustrations and had added his partner to the policy only 20 days 
before the SRD  and Mr H had initially contacted ReAssure about drawing his 
benefits some three months before, I looked carefully at what happened in the period 
prior to 20 October 2021.The evidence Id seen would suggest that Mr H had first contacted ReAssure before 
4 August 2021. Id also seen that Mr H did receive some correspondence from 
ReAssure which was dated 5 August 2021 but wasnt received until 
29 September 2021. ReAssure had stated that it was operating to 20 day turnaround 
times at that point but offered no other explanation for the delay.
I thought it was incumbent on ReAssure to make sure Mr H received the illustrations 
in whichever means was necessary and I thought that if he received them soon after 
his request there would have been enough time to progress matters so that payment 
could have been made by Mr Hs SRD.
Mr H told us that he contacted ReAssure to add his wife to the policy as soon as he 
had the illustrations for all three policies. So I thought that if hed done the same 
within two weeks of receiving the options pack dated 5 August 2021, there would 
have been sufficient time to correct his error with the date of birth and reissue the 
illustrations before the SRD  and to allow payment to made on time.
ReAssure had also suggested, in a letter to Mr H dated 30 November 2021, that it 
could backdate his first annuity payment up to three months after his retirement 
date. So I thought ReAssure could have paid Mr H his annuity payments from his 
SRD even if his options hadnt been decided until February 2022. 
I thought the increased offer of £500 for the impact the matter had on Mr H was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I thought ReAssure should carry out a calculation to put Mr H back into the position 
he would now be in if ReAssure had paid his annuity and TFC on his SRD. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party had any further points to make and there were no further submissions. Mr H 
reiterated his desire to see ReAssure learn for my ordeal, to improve their customer service
procedures to ensure that their staff perform to a higher standard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So Ill confirm 
the reasons for reaching my conclusion.
The delays which prevented payment being made on Mr Hs SRD.
To begin with I looked at any delays which took place after 20 October 2021, which was 
when Mr H had finally received the illustrations he needed to choose his retirement options. 
But as Mr Hs SRD was 10 November 2021 it was unlikely that there would have been 
enough time to set up payment of the annuity on time in any case. I did look at the timeline 
of events after 20 October 2021, but it was difficult to be specific about the cause of any 
delay because of ReAssures turnaround times, its continuation of sending 
correspondence to Mr H instead of using email, and also Mr Hs error when providing the 
wrong date of birth for his partner  which he needed to correct. 
So I looked at the events that occurred after Mr H first contacted Reassure with a view to 
drawing his retirement benefits. Theres no evidence to confirm the date that Mr H did make 
his first approach, but I note that when he contacted ReAssure on 24 August 2021 regarding 
his plans fund value, ReAssure offered to resend illustrations it said it had already sent on 4 August 2021.  So its clear that Mr H would have first contacted ReAssure before those 
quotations were processed and sent  which would most likely have been during 
July 2021.
But Mr H didnt receive anything from ReAssure until 29 September which was 
correspondence dated 5 August 2021. This would suggest that Mr H didnt get a response to 
his initial request in July 2021 until around 10 weeks later. Apart from explaining that it was 
operating to 20 day turnaround times because of the pandemic, ReAssure has been unable 
to explain this delay in providing Mr H with the information he needed to progress his 
request. 
Of course, the delay does seem to have been magnified by the time it took Mr H to receive 
the illustrations  which isnt something I can hold ReAssure entirely responsible for. But I 
think ReAssure had a duty of care to issue Mr H with these time sensitive documents as 
soon as possible. I think ReAssure needed to ensure this happened, even if it had to think 
about alternative communication methods for Mr H on account of where he lived. If it had 
emailed the forms when Mr H contacted it in August 2021 I believe there would still have 
been enough time for the process to have progressed so that ReAssure had the outstanding 
required information to make the payment by Mr Hs SRD. So having decided that ReAssure 
was primarily responsible for the delay in providing Mr H with the relevant documentation 
Ive gone on to look at what I think should have happened. 
The timescale that should have happened
In order to work out what I think should have happened Ive looked at ReAssures own 20 
day turnaround time that was in place at the time. Using that as a benchmark Ive carefully 
considered a reasonable timeline that should have evolved had Mr H contacted ReAssure to 
add his wife to the polices around two weeks after the options pack dated 5 August 2021 
was sent out. I did ask Mr H if there was a reason why he waited until 20 October 2021 to 
add his wife in case he had delayed that action for a particular reason. But he confirmed this 
was the date that he eventually received the illustrations for all three policies  which I find to 
be reasonable as there were other times in the process when details of the policies arrived 
at different times.
So two weeks after the retirement pack of 5 August 2021 being received  even allowing for 
Mr H to make and then correct the error he made regarding his wifes date of birth, there 
would have been around seven weeks for these outstanding requirements to be met and the 
illustrations produced and sent to Mr H. I know ReAssure was experiencing delays at this 
time due to the global pandemic but, in my view, this was still a timescale in which it should 
have been able to operate successfully. 
Based on what Ive seen Mr H demonstrated urgency in responding to ReAssures requests 
and returning outstanding documents. He was consistent in explaining to us that he needed 
to receive his retirement benefits as soon as possible and had to adjust his expenditure 
while he waited for the payments to be made. So I think Mr H would have ensured that he 
met any outstanding requirements swiftly and without delay. I think that ReAssure, on 
balance, ought then to have been able to meet its obligations to pay Mr Hs pension benefits 
on or by his SRD.
But even if Im wrong in my assumptions of what should have happened, I note that 
ReAssure told Mr H in a letter from 30 November 2021 that once you have decided the 
basis on which you wish to take our annuity please contact us so we can issue the relevant 
forms. We will backdate your first annuity payment up to three months after your retirement date. 
I asked ReAssure to confirm its position here following my provisional decision  but it hasnt 
made any further comment. So I think this shows that ReAssure could have backdated 
Mr Hs annuity payments to his SRD, even if it hadnt received his options form until 
February 2022. In my view this demonstrates that ReAssure should have been able to pay 
Mr H his benefits around his SRD had it not been for the delays I think ReAssure was 
primarily responsible for, and even if payment was delayed ReAssure still had the means to 
backdate the annuity payments by three months.  
ReAssures offer for the impact on Mr H and the distress and inconvenience caused
I note that our investigator agreed with ReAssures increased payment of £500 for the 
overall impact this matter had on Mr H. Ive thought carefully about the offer, and I think its 
within the range of what Id expect to see for the impact of delays like this.
I think the distress and frustration Mr H suffered, apart from the general difficulties ReAssure
had at the time, were caused by two main errors. These were continuing to send illustration
and options packs and letters by post instead of email  which seemed to add significantly to
the time taken. And the failure to respond to Mr Hs additional complaint about the other two
policies when the illustrations and quotations werent sent at the same time as the main
policy. I think the compensation payment is fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Following my provisional decision Mr H reiterated his desire to ensure his complaint helps 
others so that they wont experience the same level of service. But my role here is to tell 
ReAssure what it needs to do to put Mr H back into the position hed now be in had it not 
caused the delays which meant it didnt pay Mr Hs retirement benefits on time. What Ive set 
out below is designed to ensure thats the case here. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr H back into the position he would likely
have been in, had it not been for ReAssures errors. I think this would have meant ReAssure
could have paid Mr Hs annuity and TFC on his SRD of 10 November 2021.
So I think ReAssure must work out the:
A)-Total of all the notional payments that Mr H should have received from his annuity, 
net of his marginal rate of tax, had it been set up using the SRD of 
10 November 2021 to the date of any final decision.
B)-Total of all the actual payments which Mr H has actually received from his annuity,
net of his marginal rate of tax to the date of any final decision.
Past loss = A-B. If A is greater than B compensation should be paid to Mr H. In
working out the net payments ReAssure should assume that Mr H was a 20% rate
taxpayer.
Mr H was deprived of both the TFC and potentially any annuity payments he should
have had access to on his SRD. So ReAssure should add 8% simple interest on any
annuity payment loss, and the TFC, from 10 November 2021 to the date of any final
decision.
And if during the calculation it is shown that Mr H would have received more TFC
from his benefits being paid on his SRD  that additional amount should also be paid
to him with interest added as above.If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of ReAssure receiving Mr Hs 
acceptance of my final decision, interest should be added to the compensation at the 
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure deducts income tax
from the interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. ReAssure should
give Mr H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he
can reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Hs complaint against ReAssure Limited. My 
decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above and 
should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman