DRN-1689323
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 1998 and were sold PPI in connection with 
this mortgage at the same time.
The benefit of the policy was split equally between Mr and Mrs F. It would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr F and/or Mrs F were off work sick or lost 
their job.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and                
Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs F that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs F say they had no idea they 
had been sold PPI. They say they were totally unaware they had PPI and only remember 
signing forms for the mortgage. Mrs F says that she had an accident shortly after moving 
into their property and says that had she been aware she had been sold PPI she would have 
claimed for the accident under the policy instead of rushing back to work. I appreciate this 
must have been a very difficult time for Mrs F.
I cant know for sure what was discussed during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr and 
Mrs F have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely to have happened. 
In particular, Ive seen a signed copy of the PPI application form from the time of the sale. 
This was a completely separate form to the mortgage application form. This shows that Mr 
and Mrs F specifically applied for PPI and they also chose how they wanted the benefit of 
the policy to have been split between them. I also note that they completed a separate direct 
debit mandate for the PPI payments.
I understand Mrs F didnt make a claim under the policy and she makes a strong point when 
she questions why she wouldnt have made a claim if she had been aware she had been sold PPI. However, the difficulty I have is that based on the evidence Ive seen of how PPI 
was sold I think Mr and Mrs F wouldve been aware at this time that they were buying PPI. 
Mrs F can contact the insurers in the first instance if she wishes to make a retrospective 
claim. 
So while I appreciate the points Mr and Mrs F make, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think 
they would have been aware they were being sold PPI. Theres nothing to suggest on the 
form that PPI was compulsory and the application process made it clear that PPI was a 
separate product to the mortgage itself. So I think Lloyds did enough to make it clear that the 
PPI was optional and that it was only applied to the account because Mr and Mrs F chose to 
take it out. 
Although I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Fs main complaint point is that they were not made 
aware they had been sold PPI, since I havent upheld their complaint on that point, Ive gone 
on to consider the other aspects of the policy which could have led to PPI being mis-sold.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs F were eligible for the policy. Based on their 
age, employment and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied they would have 
been eligible.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr and Mrs F to take PPI. This means they would have had to 
take adequate steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs F. I dont know whether 
they took all the steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for them.  I say this because:
 
Mr and Mrs F dont appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which 
may have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy. So it 
looks like they could have made full use of the cover.
 
Although Mr and Mrs F have told us they would have been entitled to sick pay from 
their employers, the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and it would have 
been particularly useful when for example, Mrs Fs income reduced to half. I note Mrs 
F has told us she had to go back to work earlier than she should have after an 
accident because they couldnt afford for her income to be reduced to half. The policy 
would also have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr and Mrs F may have 
been entitled to. I think this would have been important to Mr and Mrs F given that 
the PPI was protecting a valuable asset.
 
Mr and Mrs F could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer needed or wanted it.
 
Although I appreciate what Mr and Mrs F say about wanting to keep the costs down 
due to their increased expenditure, I cant see that the policy itself was unaffordable 
for Mr and Mrs F. The PPI was of relatively low cost in comparison to the benefit it 
provided.
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs F, Lloyds also had to give them 
clear enough information so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not 
to take it out, in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions under the policy.I dont think Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs F all of the information as they should have. But this 
in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for them.
So I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr and Mrs F this PPI policy which means Lloyds doesnt 
have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman