DRN-3212051
The complaint
Mrs G complains that her husband (Mr M) had life insurance which The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited hasnt paid and that she wasnt given the option to take 
a pension rather than a lump sum from his pension policy after his death.
What happened
In 1981 Mr M took out a pension policy with Prudential and made contributions to it for 
a number of years.
In March 2011 Mr M sadly died before his Prudential pension was in payment. Mrs G was 
Mr Ms wife at the time of his death. She was also the executor of his estate.
In September 2011, after Mrs G had provided a copy of her husbands death certificate 
and the grant of probate, Prudential paid a lump sum of £73,665.01 under the policy.
In March 2018 Mrs G asked Prudential to provide her with a breakdown of her late 
husbands policy benefits. She said her husband had told her he would leave her 
over £750,000 as life cover. Finally, she said shed been told on the phone by a 
Prudential consultant that her husband had other policy/policies with it.
Prudential responded, saying the policy taken out in 1981 never had any life cover 
attached to it, and that the benefits were calculated correctly when the claim was settled. It 
also confirmed there were no other policies in force in her husbands name.
In February 2019 Mrs G telephoned Prudential to complain. She wasnt happy that the 
correct amount had been paid  she thought Mr M had life cover. She also said she 
wasnt given the option of taking the benefits as a pension, rather than a lump sum.
In its response, Prudential again said there wasnt any life cover attached to the policy, 
and the benefits had been correctly calculated. It also said that there wasnt a widows 
pension/annuity attached to the pension policy.
After this there were some further emails between Mrs G and Prudential in relation to the 
amount of the lump sum  Ill deal with those in my other decision as they concern the 
Estate of Mr M.
As Mrs G remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into her complaint and issued a view. He said that:
Theres no evidence Mr M took out an extra life assurance policy which would 
pay an extra lump sum if he passed away during its term.
The booklet Mr M wouldve been given when he took out the policy showed that 
if he were to die before his pension started, his estate would be paid a lump sum.
Mrs G asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G thinks that her husband had life cover that she shouldve received a payout from 
after his death, and that she shouldve been given the option of taking the benefits from his 
pension policy as a pension, rather than as a lump sum.
This complaint concerns events from many years ago. While I dont doubt the sincerity of 
Mrs Gs recollections, I must balance these against documents Prudential have provided, 
in order to decide what I think is most likely to be the case. For reasons Ill explain below, 
Im not going to uphold the complaint, although I appreciate Mrs G will be disappointed, 
and Im sorry for that.
Our service has previously provided Mrs G with a copy of the Prudential document 
completed when Mr M took out his pension policy in 1981. The document is titled 
Proposal for a Personal Retirement Plan. About halfway down that one-page document 
there is a section titled Details of Proposed Personal Retirement Plan Contracts. It can be 
seen from that section that Mr Ms only benefit was for a basic annuity for himself. Benefit 
2 under that heading was for a reversionary annuity, in other words a spouses pension 
after his death. But that benefit wasnt selected and no premium was paid for it. So Im 
persuaded from that document that the policy didnt provide for Mrs G to receive a pension 
after Mr Ms death.
That section of the document also shows that life insurance as part of the pension policy 
wasnt applied for. I say this because Benefit 3, which is sum assured (otherwise known 
as life insurance) is blank. So I didnt think there was any life insurance as part of the 
pension policy.
Mrs G says she has been told that her husband had another policy with Prudential. I can 
see that the 1981 Proposal document does indicate that Mr M thought he did hold a 
separate life assurance or annuity policy with Prudential. But Im satisfied the policy 
referred to wasnt in force at the time of Mr Ms death.
For all the reasons Ive given above, Im not going to uphold the complaint, although 
I understand this will disappoint Mrs G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman