DRN-3352042
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, after closing his account.
What happened
Mr S says that his account was closed in October 2020 after Barclays had told him it was 
being investigated. He later found out about the CIFAS marker when his account at a 
different bank was closed. He says he is now only able to have an online account at a 
different financial business and which doesnt meet his needs.
Barclays said it hadnt made any mistake and said that it wasnt going to provide Mr S with 
any more information about its decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She noted that Barclays 
hadnt explained the issue at the time. On 17 September 2020 Mr S had received a payment 
of £100 into his account with reference tow bar. This had been reported as a scam by the 
person who sent the money. Mr S had sent a payment from his account the next day to his 
credit card account that included the benefit of this money. 
Shed spoken to Mr S about this and initially he said he had no recollection. The next day 
hed called her and said his friend he was working with at the time had asked him to use his 
account to receive the money for a tow bar sold online. His friend had deleted the social 
media account about this. Mr S said his friend had asked him to do this because he had an 
overdraft and wanted cash. The item hadnt been supplied. Mr S was unclear if hed paid his 
friend the £100 back saying it might have been in cash or a deduction from his wages. He 
wanted the CIFAS marker removed and offered to pay £100 if this would help.
Our investigator said she was satisfied that the funds were fraudulently obtained. Mr S had 
been unable to provide any evidence of contact with that friend at the time about the money 
to show why hed received it. And hed benefited from it. She noted that hed quickly 
changed his story about what happened and thought that, even given the time that had 
passed, the reference for the payment seemed memorable. She said that there was a high 
bar for a CIFAS marker. Barclays ought to have asked Mr S more about things at the time. 
But she didnt think that this would have made a difference to any evidence Mr S was able to 
provide. A letter from his friend now or repaying the money wouldnt help. She concluded he 
was a witting participant in what happened.
Mr S didnt agree and said that he wouldnt have thought this issue over £100 could have 
caused so much aggravation. He wanted to know what he needed to do to appeal this and 
wanted the CIFAS marker removed. He wasnt concerned that his account at Barclays had 
been closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Barclays received a report from the senders bank that the money had been obtained 
fraudulently. This was paid into Mr S account. He has been unable to show that he paid this 
money to any third party. The evidence is that he used this as part of a payment towards his 
credit card account. I think he was responsible for what happened on his bank account.
He has no evidence to support the background to this payment at the time. From what he 
says and his account statement this seemed to be the only payment of this type. Its unclear 
to me why his friend would need to use his account in this way, especially if that person was 
also involved in paying him wages. Ive listened to all the calls hes had with our investigator 
and I agree that this unusual transaction was likely to have been more memorable even 
given the passage of time. And within less than a day in any event hed come back with 
these details. He cant show he didnt keep this money though or what happened to it. And I 
agree with our investigator that what would be key would be information from that time. On 
his version of events the social media account through which the item was sold was closed 
which resulted in the person who paid the money raising a scam claim. And there is no good 
explanation why that person didnt get the item that Mr S had been paid for.
I cant say exactly what happened, but I need to think about what is most likely. And Im 
taking into account everything Mr S has now said and whether if Barclays had disclosed the 
specific concern at the time things would have been different. Im afraid that I conclude it 
most likely that Mr S was a witting participant at the time in this transaction and that he was 
fairly responsible for these fraudulently obtained funds. And I dont think that the amount 
involved or that he has offered to pay this back now makes any difference.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr S received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had. CIFAS guidance says the business must have carried out checks of 
sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that 
Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal report to the police. And that 
any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr S account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr S received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- He authorised the movement of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr S had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
As a result, it closed his account and added the CIFAS marker. I appreciate what Mr S says 
about the impact for him now, but I dont have a reasonable basis to require Barclays to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman