DRN-3791015
The complaint
Mrs D and the estate of Mr D have complained about the service provided by Inter Partner 
Assistance (SA) (IPA) when handling a travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Im not going to go into a great deal of detail in this section, as both Mrs D and IPA know 
what happened and its not in dispute. I should also say Im considering what happened after 
IPA issued their final response letter on Mrs Ds complaint, as Mrs D wanted us to consider 
this and IPA agreed with our investigator that we could do so. 
Mr and Mrs D took out a single-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by IPA, to cover 
their trip abroad from 14 to 21 March 2022. On 17 March Mr D suffered a medical 
emergency and was admitted to hospital. Mrs D contacted IPA on 18 March to tell them she 
wanted to claim and required their assistance. Mr Ds treatment continued until he was 
discharged on 25 March. But, sadly, he died later that day. 
Mrs D returned home and complained to IPA about the way it had handled the claim. IPA 
issued their final response letter on the complaint on 21 June 2022. It acknowledged it had 
handled the claim badly and offered Mrs D £400 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. They also reimbursed the interest Mrs D had incurred on her credit card up 
to this point, as a result of them not settling the claim in a reasonable time.
In their final response letter IPA asked Mrs D to provide some further information and it also 
said it would only pay the additional cost of one family member flying out to support Mrs D, 
rather than paying for the two who had done so. 
As Mrs D wasnt happy with IPAs response to the complaint she referred it to us and raised 
numerous issues, which our investigator set out in his view on the complaint. Ive considered 
these, but I am not going to list them all again in this decision. 
In August 2022 IPA made a further settlement payment to Mrs D, but she pointed out it 
wasnt for the full amount of the hospital bill or the additional accommodation. IPA accepted 
they had made an error and made a further payment to cover part of the shortfall. And they 
asked for further evidence to show their payment for the hospital bill was incorrect. Mrs D 
provided her credit card statement, but IPA still wouldnt pay the additional amount. Mrs D 
queried this and IPA finally agreed to pay the extra amount. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He concluded that IPA had provided a 
very poor level of service both before and after their final response letter. He didnt think the 
£400 they paid in compensation was enough for the distress and inconvenience Mrs D had 
experienced. He said IPA should pay a further £600. He also recommended that IPA pay 
any further interest Mrs D had incurred on her credit card as a result of IPA not having 
settled the claim in full at the point they paid out for the interest shed incurred. 
Mrs D has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She doesnt think the compensation 
suggested by our investigator is enough to compensate her and her late husband for 
everything they went through. Shes said the  episode has made her whole family upset and 
angry. Shes also mentioned how she thinks IPA have got away with it so to speak. 
IPA dont agree either. Theyve asked for evidence of what the further payment of credit card 
interest should be. And theyve said they think the £400 theyve already paid in 
compensation fairly reflects the impact of their failings in this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators view that IPA should pay the additional credit 
card interest Mrs D incurred, plus a further £600 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr D and I can see how upsetting the whole 
episode must have been for Mrs D and her family. But, as our investigator explained, its not 
our role to punish financial businesses for providing a poor level of service. This means its 
not a matter of whether IPA have got away with it. Its about whether the compensation 
awarded is appropriate to compensate Mrs D for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced as a result of the poor service provided by IPA.  The award is also not intended 
to compensate the estate or Mrs Ds  wider family. This is because technically an estate 
cannot experience distress and inconvenience and Mrs Ds family are not eligible 
complainants, as they were not customers of IPA. 
Mrs D clearly went through a very distressing experience. And, whatever the level of service 
provided by IPA was, it was always going to be a very difficult time for her. But the 
compensation is to reflect the fact that the poor service provided by IPA, which was very 
clearly documented by our investigator and is not disputed by IPA, made her situation worse. 
IPA have argued that the £400 theyve already paid is enough to reflect this, but I dont think 
it is. The service they provided at the outset was poor, as they caused unnecessary delays, 
which left Mrs D feeling unsupported and concerned about the financial implications of her 
situation. She also would have been very concerned about Mr Ds condition and the stress 
the uncertainty due to IPAs failings was having on this. To compound all of this IPA took far 
too long to finally settle the claim. And  even when they finally agreed to do so  they didnt 
get it right and this led to further unnecessary distress and inconvenience for Mrs D.
No amount of compensation is going to seem adequate for Mrs D, because of the terrible 
experience she had. But  as Ive already said - I dont think £400 is anywhere near enough. 
The level of distress and inconvenience was substantial and IPA and Mrs D may find it 
helpful to look at our note on awards for distress and inconvenience on our website, where 
they will see the range of awards we usually make where customers experience substantial 
distress and inconvenience. The amounts mentioned are not set guidelines or limits, but 
what we tend to think might be appropriate in different circumstances. If I award a further 
£600 it will mean Mrs D will receive £1,000 compensation in total and this is in line with the 
sort of awards we make for substantial distress and inconvenience. And I think it does 
represent a fair and reasonable outcome to the main part of this complaint. I appreciate Mrs 
D doesnt think it is enough, but I have to decide what I think is appropriate and Im satisfied 
£1,000 in total is. 
Ive also considered IPAs view that a further £600 is too much, but Ive explained above why 
I dont agree with them. Im a little surprised by IPAs response to our investigators recommendations about 
additional credit card interest. I say this because I think our investigator made it clear in his 
recommendations that they are entitled to ask Mrs D for evidence of the amount involved. 
The investigator said the following:
Pay Mrs D an amount to cover the cost of any interest that was charged to her
credit card on transactions that were part of her claim.
This should be calculated by considering the interest that was charged to Mrs Ds credit 
card account, on relevant transactions, after the period IPAs previous payment relates 
to.
IPA is entitled to ask Mrs D to provide it with any further credit card statements that it 
needs to calculate the amount of interest she incurred on the relevant transactions.
So I think it should have been clear from this that the investigator was only asking IPA to pay 
an amount to cover the further interest Mrs D had incurred since their previous payment on 
any amounts she was unable to clear because of the underpayments on her claim. For 
example, with the hospital fees, IPA paid £110.42 less than they should have done and 
£458.01 less for the hotel bill. Thats £568.43 in total. This means if Mrs D had this amount 
left on her credit card, shed have incurred interest on it. IPAs previous payment of interest 
didnt cover this. 
So it seems fair to me, that IPA should pay Mrs D an amount to cover the interest she 
incurred as a result of this, as she only incurred it due to the late payment of part of her claim 
by IPA. So, I see no reason to reach a different view on this point to our investigator. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint is for IPA to pay Mrs D a further £600 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
I also think they should pay Mrs D an amount to cover the interest that was charged to her 
credit card account on any amount left on it after their previous payment for credit card 
interest due to the inadequate payments they made on Mrs Ds claim. This is up to the point 
they actually made the extra payments to bring the settlement amount on her claim up to the 
right amount. This is subject to Mrs D providing evidence in the form of credit card 
statements to show the interest she incurred. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs D and the estate of Mr Ds 
complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA and I order them to do what Ive set out above 
in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and the 
estate of Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman