DRN-3791079
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained the Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold 
them a package bank account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D held a fee-free Easy Cash account with Halifax before it was upgraded to an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) on 29 November 2012. Mr and Mrs D paid a fee 
for this account.
Mr and Mrs D have told us that when they took out the URCA in 2012 they needed an 
overdraft facility and were told the only way they could have an overdraft facility was if they 
took the URCA.
Mr and Mrs D have since found that they did not need to have the URCA to have an 
overdraft facility, so they feel the URCA was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs D have also told us they 
didnt need the benefits that came with the account.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Ds complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. As Mr and Mrs D disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the package bank account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
As explained above Mr and Mrs D opened an URCA on 29 November 2012.
When Mr and Mrs D opened their account, they had a conversation with a Halifax 
representative and an interview summary document (ISD) was produced. The document 
shows that Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances meant they were eligible for some of the benefits 
that came with the URCA. It stated the Mr and Mrs D travelled regularly by car, had a mobile 
phone, and that they would have liked help if their debit or credit cards were lost or stolen.
The document suggests that Mr and Mrs D were also interested in the preferential rates the 
account offered to account holders that applied for an overdraft facility. 
I havent seen enough to say Halifax made a tailored recommendation for Mr and Mrs D to 
take the URCA. So, with this and what we know about Halifaxs sales processes at the time I 
dont think Halifax recommended the account to them. This meant it didnt have to make 
sure the account was right for Mr and Mrs D, but it did have to give them the information they 
needed to decide if the account was right for them.
At the time this URCA was sold to Mr and Mrs D it came with worldwide travel insurance, 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, home emergency cover and card protection. The 
URCA also came with a fee-free overdraft up to £300.
I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr and Mrs D when they took the URCA, but I 
think the benefits that came with the account would have been discussed at some level. I 
think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D only took the account because they were told it was their only 
option if they wanted an overdraft. I say this because they didnt apply for an overdraft facility 
with the account until 2015, three years after taking out the account.
In any event at the time Mr and Mrs D took the URCA the monthly fee was £15. If, like they 
have told us, they took the account to obtain an overdraft, having the URCA could have 
provided a substantial saving for them. Fee-free accounts at the time charged £1 per day for 
using an overdraft facility, so if Mr and Mrs D were planning to use an overdraft on a regular 
basis they would have avoided the daily charge and paid less to have the facility. 
However, as Ive said above Mr and Mrs D didnt apply for an overdraft until several years 
after they took the URCA, so I dont think this was their only reason for taking the account. 
Although they have told us they have never claimed on any of the other benefits that came 
with the account the benefits remained in place should they have needed to use them at any 
time.
I understand Mr and Mrs D didnt have a need for all of the benefits that came with the 
URCA, but package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual so its often the case 
that customers either dont, or cant use all of the benefits that come with them. This does 
not mean the account was mis-sold.
Having considered the above I dont think Mr and Mrs D were mis-sold the URCA. I think its 
likely that the benefits of the URCA were discussed with Mr and Mrs D and they chose to 
take the account based on their circumstances at the time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman