DRN-2509875
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mars Capital Finance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with his payments towards his mortgage and claiming that hes in arrears. He wants 
matters put right.
What happened
Mr C had an interest only mortgage with Mars, for which he had to make monthly payments. 
Mr C said that he normally paid by cheque at the end of the month, which could take two to 
three days to clear. Mr C said he sent his December 2019 cheque at the end of that month, 
but said it wasnt cleared until February 2020. The January 2020 cheque also did not clear 
until mid February 2020, while the February 2020 cheque did not clear until mid March 2020. 
He made payments in March and April online and received a letter to say his account was in 
arrears.
Mr C complained to Mars. It said that it did receive cheques each month at the beginning of 
December 2019 to March 2020 to cover the previous months payment, as well as the online 
payments at the end of March and April 2020. Mars explained that cheques received had to 
be sent by courier to the finance team and there had been a backlog in processing cheques, 
which caused the delay in clearance. But it said it couldnt find a record of the two cheques 
received between December 2019 and January 2020 reaching the finance team, and denied 
that these had been cashed by it. It said Mr C should cancel the missing cheques and pay 
the two months of arrears (extra time being given to make the payment) Mars offered £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C.
Mr C complained to us and said that the cheques had been cleared and the money had left 
his account so they hadnt gone missing, and denied being in arrears. He sent letters from 
his bank confirming which cheques had been cleared, when and by whom (Mars). Mars said 
it accepted the information given by Mr C and it had made a mistake in saying it hadnt 
cleared all the cheques. It offered another £200 compensation and asked for Mr Cs bank 
details to pay the money directly into his account.
Mr C was unhappy that the error was only found when he challenged Mars and wanted more 
compensation. The investigators view was that Mars had made a mistake but corrected it to 
reflect that Mr C had paid the payments. She thought £400 compensation was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, including the upset caused by the incorrect final 
response letter it first sent.
Mr C disagreed. He said the first £200 compensation was fair and reasonable for the issues 
caused by the delay in cashing his cheques, but didnt feel the second £200 was enough for 
the trouble and upset hed suffered in having to prove Mars was incorrect in saying that he 
was in arrears. The investigator didnt change her view. Mr C said we should look at how 
Mars operates its business generally and its accounting procedures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand why Mr C is upset, this service cant do as he asks and look at how Mars 
operates its business generally. We only deal with individual complaints, and look at the 
facts specific to each case. We also dont look at what mightve happened, but what did 
actually happen. It isnt my role to punish businesses if they make a mistake; my role is to 
ensure that the consumer is as much as possible much back into the position that they 
shouldve been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
In terms of Mr Cs account, Mars accepts that it made a mistake and all the cheques were 
cleared and paid into its account. Mr C wasnt in arrears. It has apologised and explained 
why there was a delay in clearing his cheques and explained to him the other ways to pay 
his mortgage. Im satisfied that Mr Cs account is in the position that it shouldve been if the 
mistake hadnt happened.
That leaves the issue of the trouble and upset Mr C suffered, both due to the delays in 
clearing his cheques, the claim that he was in arrears and hadnt paid as required and the 
initial incorrect final response letter. Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset, 
and this service tries to be consistent in such awards by considering guidelines and the 
trouble and upset suffered by the consumer.
Mr C had to contact both Mars and his bank to prove Mars had made a mistake. This is 
inconvenience and trouble which is more than trivial. I accept that he was stressed and 
worried as he says. But overall, Im not persuaded that more than £400 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for this trouble and upset, even allowing for the £200 notionally 
towards the issue of the delayed clearing of the cheques. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint, but the offer of £400 compensation is fair and 
reasonable and Mars Capital Finance Limited does not need to do more, other than pay the 
compensation offered within 28 days of notification of acceptance of the decision by Mr C if it 
remains unpaid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman