DRN-2978495
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc.
What happened
In May 2016, Mr G purchased windows from a third party, financed with credit provided by 
Hitachi. The loan was to be repaid in monthly instalments over eight years. Mr G complains 
that the retailers salesman misrepresented the loan agreement, by telling him that if he 
repaid the loan in full in the first twelve months then no interest would be charged. He says 
that if he had known this was not true, then he would not have taken the loan, but would 
have paid for the windows outright. He complained to the retailer in November 2016, which 
told him that Hitachi did not offer such a product, and he did not pursue the matter further.
At the end of 2017, Mr G stopped making payments, and moved away without telling Hitachi 
his new address. He says this was because he thought he had settled the agreement, but in 
fact there was still a four-figure sum outstanding. Hitachi wrote several letters to him at his 
old address.
In 2021, Hitachi traced Mr G to his new address, and wrote to him there to ask him to pay 
the outstanding balance. He complained, and Hitachi sent him a final response letter in 
which it referred his complaint to the retailer, since in Hitachis view the retailer was 
responsible for any misrepresentation by its salesman. However, Mr G brought this 
complaint to our service, against Hitachi.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said there was nothing in the loan 
agreement, or in any other documentation, to say that no interest would be charged if the 
loan was repaid in the first 12 months. She thought the outstanding balance Hitachi was 
pursuing Mr G for was correct, and that he had known he had not repaid the loan in full. She 
did not accept that the loan had been mis-sold.
Mr G disagreed. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I have read the loan agreement and two different 
documents both entitled customer personal illustration form, and none of them say 
anything about no interest being charged if the loan is repaid within a year. They do mention 
that the interest will be reduced if additional payments are made, but that is not the same 
thing. Perhaps the salesman mentioned that and Mr G misunderstood it, but there is no 
reason for me to think that the salesman told him that no interest would be charged at all.
The loan agreement and the other documents all describe the 14 day cooling-off period, 
during which Mr G could cancel the loan if he wished. He had the opportunity to do that, if he 
had read the loan agreement and realised that it did not correspond with his own 
understanding of the loan. I think the terms of the loan agreement are clear, and that Mr G 
ought to have realised, if he had read it, that he would still be liable to pay some interest 
however soon he paid back the loan. So it seems unlikely to me that a salesman would 
describe a loan which operated differently to the clear terms of the loan agreement and the 
written pre-contract information, and which was not offered by Hitachi.
Its a moot point though, since at the time that Mr G made his last payment in 2017 he had 
still not repaid all of the capital of the loan. So even if the loan agreement really had said that 
no interest would be charged if he repaid what he owed within 12 months, he wouldnt have 
qualified.
So for two entirely separate reasons I am completely satisfied that the loan was not mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman