DRN-2972932
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt handled his claim on his buildings 
and insurance policy fairly.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Bs home was damaged by an escape of water from the upstairs bathroom. 
The escape of water caused damage throughout the house including the kitchen, hallway, 
living room, bathroom and landing.
The house was deemed to be unfit for habitation and Mr B and his family needed to seek 
alternative accommodation (AA). Mr B organised this himself and he and his family moved 
initially to a holiday apartment before moving to longer term temporary accommodation. UKI 
attempted with the use of ICAB (a specialist AA provider) to find a suitable longer-term 
accommodation for Mr B and his family but was unable to find anywhere which met their 
needs. As a result Mr B and his family stayed in the longer-term accommodation he found 
for the duration of the claim.
The claim progressed and UKI instructed its contractor to produce a schedule of works and 
arrange the drying of the house. Mr B wasnt happy with the way the claim was being 
handled or progressed by UKI and appointed his own loss adjuster to handler the claim on 
his behalf. Despite this Mr B continued to speak with UKI directly and provide details relating 
to his claim and the AA.  
Mr B made payment to the AA three times with the fourth payment being made directly by 
UKI. The accommodation cost was £2250 for the first 28 days (rental period A) with each 
subsequent 28-day period costing £2100. Mr B paid £2250 on 13 July 2020 and £2100 on 
17 August 2020 (rental period B) and 3 September 2020 (rental period C). UKI made a 
payment directly of £2100 on 5 October 2020 (rental period D).
On 2 September UKI made an offer to cash settle the damage to Mr Bs property for 
£30,540.43  this covered the buildings claim but excluded repairs to the solar panel system. 
This was accepted by Mr B and later in writing by Mr Bs appointed loss adjuster.
On 27 October 2020 UKIs solicitor wrote to Mr B. It said Mr B claimed more for the AA than 
he should have with his claim being exaggerated. Is said hed claimed £2250 for rental 
period B and C, this was despite the accommodation only costing this much for the initial 
rental period A. It also felt Mr B had attempted to claim £4500 for the period commencing 5 
October, rental period D when it paid the AA provider directly. It felt Mr B had intentionally 
claimed more than he knew the cost to be for his own benefit and personal gain. Because of 
this it said Mr B was in breach of the fraud condition set out in his policy. It said it was 
repudiating the claim and would be seeking repayment of all monies previously paid.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. As well as complaining about the repudiation of 
his claim, he complained above the overall claims handling received from UKI. He felt it had 
made a number of mistakes throughout the journey of the claim and he wanted us to 
consider these as well as whether it had acted fairly when it repudiated the claim.
Our investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint and said he felt UKI had made a fair decision to 
repudiate the claim. He also considered the handling of the claim overall and the complaint 
Mr B had around the storage costs and service he received from UKI. He didnt think UKI 
had acted unfairly or delayed any payments based on the information provided and he was 
satisfied UKI was only asking Mr B to repay what it had spent on the claim. Because of this 
he didnt think UKI needed to do anything else.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. He said hed notified UKI of the overpayment for the 
AA during telephone calls with UKIs agents. He didnt think its fair to say this didnt happen 
if the call recordings cant be provided. He was also adamant invoices had been sent to his 
loss adjuster when received and these would have been provided to UKI to show the actual 
amount due for the AA. Our investigator explained that he hadnt relied only on what was 
said in the calls but also the testimony of Mr B and everything else provided, including the 
invoices, and information from the AA provider directly. His opinion remained unchanged 
and because Mr B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing to Mr B when considering the implications, but Ill explain how 
Ive reached this outcome.
Mr Bs complaint includes a vast number of points, but as the fundamental issue here is 
whether UKI has acted fairly with the decision taken to repudiate the claim, Ive focused on 
this. Only if I felt it had acted unfairly repudiating the claim do the other points have any 
relevance. 
Mr Bs policy wording sets out the fraud condition UKI is relying on now to repudiate his 
claim. As Mr B has been provided a copy of this wording previously when UKI set out its 
position on the claim, I wont repeat it all again here. But in short, this explains UKI has the 
right to repudiate a claim if it believes the claim was in any way fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated. It also explains the policy may be cancelled and any premiums paid may be 
kept. 
Mr B has strongly denied that he requested more for the AA costs than he was charged and 
insists that he notified UKI of the overpayment a number of times during the many calls he 
made to it to discuss the claim. He said during these calls the person he spoke with made it 
clear that with so much else outstanding on the claim to be paid, any overpayment on the AA 
could be sorted out later.
UKI hasnt been able to provide the call recordings from the calls. It said this is because of 
the Covid-19 pandemic, many of its staff working from home so calls havent always been 
recorded. But its provided the claims notes which include a summary of all interactions with 
Mr B or his loss adjuster. As these were taken at the time of the calls detailing what was 
discussed and shared with UKI, I think its reasonable to believe they give an accurate 
reflection of what was said each time. Ive also looked at the information UKI received from 
Mr B and his loss adjuster which relate to the AA costs. And having looked at all of these 
notes carefully, Ive not seen anything which suggest a conversation took place where an 
overpayment with the AA costs was made.An invoice was provided to UKI for rental period A which showed the cost of the 
accommodation to be £2250. This was sent to UKI on 6 July 2020 and it paid Mr B directly 
this amount on 8 July 2020. Mr B paid the invoice on 13 July 2020.
On 14 August Mr B called UKI a number of times to talk about the AA costs and what he 
said he was being charged for rental period B. The claims note from this call show Mr B was 
called to say if the invoice wasnt paid he was going to be made homeless. And he said he 
and his family had been threatened with eviction. He needed a payment of £2250 to be 
made for this period. UKI reminded Mr B that he had a mandate with his loss adjuster to act 
on his behalf but Mr B insisted that he speak with them. Mr Bs loss adjuster provided a copy 
of the invoice for rental period A again later that day and the payment of £2250 was made by 
UKI to Mr B on Monday 17 August 2020. On the same day Mr B paid £2100 directly to the 
AA provider.
The third payment for £2,250 was made on 4 September by UKI after Mr B had made a 
payment of £2,100 to the AA provider on 3 September 2020.
Following this, UKIs solicitor spoke to the AA provider directly and obtained copies of the 
invoices. It was at this point it established the respective invoiced amount for rental period B 
and C was £2100. UKI asked Mr B and his loss adjuster a number of times to provide copies 
of the relevant invoices previously but this wasnt provided. And Ive seen this reflected in the 
email correspondence from around this time. It paid the amount claimed for in good faith 
based on the amount detailed on the invoice for rental period A as Mr B had chased for this 
amount for the two later rental periods. 
Mr B has said all documents he received in relation to his claim were forwarded on to his 
loss adjuster to provide to UKI. It could be inferred from this that he may not have been 
aware of the costs being claimed for if he was removed from the claim in this way. However,
I think Mr B would have been aware that the amount he was claiming for and that hed been 
paid more by UKI for rental periods B and C than the actual invoiced amount. I say this as 
its clear he knew what the correct amount was as he made the payment to the AA provider 
directly by card.
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly that he notified UKI of this discrepancy and that he was told 
not to worry about the difference. But Ive seen no evidence to support this version of events 
so Im not persuaded it was made aware of this. I say this as there is no mention of this in 
any of the claims notes. And I think had it been made aware of this after the payment for 
rental period B, its reasonable to expect that the payment would be correct for rental period 
C. While the claim was ongoing and there may well have been other payments later due to 
Mr B, UKI would not have made an overpayment without noting that other items are to be 
considered against the amount paid. So I think its most likely Mr B knew the amount hed 
claimed for in relation to the rental periods B and C was in excess of the amount he needed 
to pay.
UKI has also questioned the amount claimed for rental period D. Mr B said he believed the 
discounted rate hes obtained was coming to an end as the date for the completion of the 
works on his house was approaching. He said he believed the rent for this period was going 
to cost £4,500. UKI spoke to the AA provider directly and it confirmed the rental price of 
£2,100 was the price available for long term lets  Mr B had qualified for this as he was 
staying for more than one month and this price was the ongoing price. It said the price for 
rental period D was £2,100 the same as rental period B and C.
The AA provider explained that it had been asked by Mr B to confirm the cost of the 
accommodation for a shorter rent period and a quote was provided on this basis. This set 
out the higher price and it also provided the invoice for period D at the lower price in line with the previous months. Im not sure why Mr B would think he was going to be charged the 
larger amount when the invoice amount for his stay was the lower and the higher quote was 
an illustration. 
This may have caused confusion, but I think having been in the AA for three months already, 
any discount as a longer-term tenant would have been expected to continue as the AA 
continued beyond this period. I know Mr B feels the price he obtained was a special deal 
but Ive not seen that this price was different to the AA providers normal rate. UKI said it 
spoke with the AA provider and it explained the AA costs being claimed was in excess of 
what it was charging and Mr B was aware of this. This testimony was also provided to us 
directly by the AA provider. Overall, in light of the evidence, Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly 
by saying Mr B was attempting to claim £4,500 for rental period D. 
Fraud is a serious allegation and decisions relating to this need to be evidenced. UKI has 
demonstrated its carried out a thorough investigation into the concerns it had about the AA 
costs claimed for. And Ive seen material evidence that persuades me it has reached a fair 
claims decision when repudiating Mr Bs claim.
As I dont think UKI has acted unfairly when repudiating the claim, I dont intend to cover off 
Mr Bs concerns about the wider handling of the claim in any detail. However, I think its clear 
from the information provided that UKI attempted to resolve this claim as quickly and as 
pragmatically as possible. Despite appointing a loss adjuster to act on Mr Bs behalf, he 
continued to call UKI regularly. These calls often appear to have been unproductive with a 
number of warnings given to Mr B about his language and the manner in which he 
addressed the staff. He and his loss adjuster failed to provide invoices when asked and this 
caused delays in payments and Ive not seen anything to suggest any delay was caused by 
UKI or its agents actions.
UKI is only asking for Mr B to pay back what it has spent on the claim which Im satisfied is 
fair, and I see no reason to direct it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman