DRN-2631497
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd unfairly voided her home 
insurance policy (treated it as though it had never been in place) and required her to repay 
the cost of her flood claim. Shes also unhappy with the way the claim was handled.
]
What happened
Miss B took out the policy with AIE in 2018. The policy was renewed in June 2019. The 
policy documentation stated that AIE had been told the property wasnt used for business 
purposes and asked Miss B to tell it if any of the information AIE held about Miss B was 
incorrect.
In August 2019 Miss B made a claim to AIE after her home was flooded. 
AIE asked Miss B some questions as part of the claim. It said she told them she was a 
housewife with a home food business which shed started in late 2018. 
Without accepting liability for the claim AIE appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim 
and in particular the business use of the property. Miss B told the loss adjuster she didnt run 
a business from her home and the food products were made by her partner at her place of 
work. AIE said based on that information it accepted the claim. It arranged for a supplier to 
start drying the property and made various interim payments to Miss B.
AIE said following a review of a complaint by Miss B about the way the claim had been 
handled, it found more information indicating that Miss B had been carrying on a business 
from the property.
In March 2020 AIE decided to void the policy. It said it wouldnt have offered to renew the 
policy in June 2019 if it had been told about the business use. It also asked Miss B to repay 
the claim costs of about £85,000.
Miss B brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He didnt think 
it was unfair of AIE to void the policy on the basis that Miss B had given it inaccurate 
information. Since the policy had been voided, he thought AIE was entitled to recover its 
claim costs. He wasnt persuaded that the drying company had damaged some items further 
and disposed of other items unnecessarily.
As Miss B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer buys or renews an insurance policy, theyre asked various questions 
about themselves, what they want to insure or to confirm that information previously 
provided and held by the insurer is correct. The insurer uses the answers given, and the 
information provided, to assess the risk of insuring the consumer and to calculate what 
price to charge for doing so. Basically, the insurer is trying to assess how likely it is that the 
consumer will make a claim. And to do so it has to rely on the answers and information that 
its given as being accurate. If an answer is inaccurate or misleadingly incomplete it can be 
said to be a misrepresentation. And in certain situations the insurer will be entitled to take 
action as set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). 
Its not in dispute that AIE asked Miss B a clear question about whether her property was 
used for business purposes. Its not my role to decide whether or not Miss B was carrying on 
a business from her home. What Im looking at is whether AIE reached a reasonable 
decision that Miss B had given it inaccurate information on renewal of the policy. 
AIE has confirmed that it wouldnt have offered this policy if it had known about the business 
use.
Ill look in turn at the evidence relied upon by AIE which it thinks show there was a business 
use at Miss Bs property.
food hygiene rating
Miss B said in January 2019 she and her partner bought a website for a food business called 
S. A food hygiene rating for that business was awarded by the local authority at the end of 
that month following an inspection of the kitchen at Miss Bs home. 
Miss B said she just wanted to make items for school fairs and knew that legally she needed 
to register as a business in order to do so.
I accept that there isnt a mechanism for private individuals to register their homes when 
making food for other people not as part of a business. But I think generally the only people 
whod bother to register would be running a business as the registration process is designed 
for people who are starting or taking over a food business. So I can understand AIE placing 
some weight on this evidence.
social media checks
AIE said its social media checks indicated that Miss Bs business, S, had been affected by 
floods and also brought to light a stockist. Ive looked at the social media posts some of 
which the retailer later removed. In November 2018 they referred to the last ever delivery 
from S due to it closing at the end of the month. In February 2019 the retailer said it had Ss 
products in stock again and thanked someone with Miss Bs first name for delivering them. 
There were two other posts about Ss products that month. In March the retailer referred to 
some new stock that had just arrived from S. There were more posts about S in April, May 
and June. 
Miss B says in some of the posts the retailer was referring to old stock that had been 
delivered before she and her partner acquired S. She said theyd had four orders for the 
retailer with the last one being in May 2019 before the policy renewal date. Miss B provided 
witness statements and photos showing that her partner made similar products using the 
facilities in her workplace. She said her partner had made the goods for the orders at her 
workplace and in her own time. I think this shows that Miss S and/or her partner were 
running a small business, albeit not necessarily from their home.
However, in August 2019 there was a post by the retailer that S had been affected by floods 
with a lot of stock damaged. Since theres no evidence that Miss Bs partners workplace 
was flooded or that there were any other premises that Miss B and her partner used to 
make their products, I can understand why AIE interpreted this as referring to the flooding at Miss Bs home. I appreciate that the retailer later took down the post but its hard to 
understand why the retailer would post something like that unless it reflected what theyd 
been told.
admission from Miss Bs partner
During a call with AIE to discuss the above evidence, Miss Bs partner confirmed that they 
had been making the food products at home. Miss B says her partner was pressurised into 
making that admission because of the threat that she would be reported to her employer for 
unauthorised use of their facilities. Since Miss B has provided witness statements from her 
partners colleagues about the fact that her partner was making products for S in her 
workplace, its hard to reconcile this with Miss Bs partner feeling pressurised about her 
employer finding out about this.  
Miss B has since provided a statement from someone who visited Miss Bs partners 
workplace in March 2019. The person recalled the partner working on products for S as a 
favour to Miss B. I think Miss B has shown that some of Ss products were made in her 
partners workplace. But I dont think that necessarily means it was unreasonable for AIE to 
conclude that that some of them were made at Miss Bs home.
 
After considering these points, I dont think it was unreasonable for AIE to come to the 
conclusion that Miss B was more likely than not running a business from home. I appreciate 
that it would only have been a very small business but even large businesses have to start 
somewhere. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied it was reasonable for AIE to decline 
Miss Bs claim and void the policy. Since she wasnt covered by the policy, AIE hasnt 
treated her unfairly in requiring her to repay the claim costs which it paid in good faith on the 
understanding at the time that her claim was covered under the policy.
Miss B is also unhappy with the way AIEs drying company dealt with her belongings. The 
limit of cover for items in the garage and outbuildings was £2,500. Before the policy was 
voided, she complained that the drying company had disposed of or damaged items in the 
garage unnecessarily and she wouldnt be able to claim for them because shed reached the 
limit under that section of the policy.
The drying company was working for AIE which had a vested interest in disposing of as little 
as possible in order to reduce the cost of the claim. As it was a specialist in flood claims and 
Miss Bs property had been flooded by contaminated water, I think it would also know what 
items could be restored and which couldnt. I appreciate that Miss B would have liked to 
have been consulted before things were disposed of but that wasnt practicable since she 
wasnt on hand. So I dont think it was unreasonable for the drying company to make its own 
assessment and act accordingly.
Miss B has also complained about delays. I can see that there were some delays at the start 
of the claim but that was due to the initial enquiries AIE made after Miss B disclosed the 
business use. I think AIE was entitled to make such enquiries before it accepted liability 
under the policy. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman