DRN-3309623
The complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc is responsible for an international payment he made 
going missing. He says HSBC sent the payment to the wrong correspondent bank and 
hasnt done enough to help trace it.   
What happened
In February 2021, Mr E attempted to transfer around £4,000 to an account overseas but the 
recipient didnt receive it. Mr E asked HSBC for a copy of the SWIFT message to help him 
trace the payment, but this wasnt provided straight away. Once hed receive this 
information, he concluded that the correspondent bank details were incorrect, so he asked 
HSBC to withdraw the payment. Around six weeks later, he complained to HSBC that he still 
hadnt received the money back into his account.
HSBC apologised for not providing Mr E with a SWIFT copy of the payment when he first 
asked for it and paid him £75 for the inconvenience this had caused. But it said it wasnt 
aware of any issues regarding the details of the payment. It said that the funds had been 
sent across as Mr E had requested via online banking. It had requested a recall of the 
payment and had chased this, but it was reliant on the other bank responding. It couldnt 
return the funds to Mr Es account until it had received them back. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2022 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Es complaint in part. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Es complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr E says he requested the payment be returned to him because he discovered HSBC had 
used the incorrect correspondent bank details. From what Ive been told, Mr E transferred 
the payment online. HSBC has provided a screenshot to show it was sent to the bank Mr E 
says he intended it to go to. HSBC has also sent us a copy of the email it sent to Mr E on 15 
February 2021. This includes the SWIFT code for the bank Mr E says he intended the 
payment to be sent to. Mr E has provided a copy of an email from the aforementioned 
overseas bank which says: we did not receive the amount because the sender sent with 
incorrect details as highlighted on the previous email. While three SWIFT codes are 
highlighted on an email, its unclear why the bank thought the details were incorrect. So, 
based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that HSBC made an error when sending the 
payment. 
HSBC says the payment was sent via an intermediary (correspondent) bank. This isnt 
unusual when payments are transferred overseas as banks cant have a direct business 
relationship with all of the other banks in the world. 
HSBC says it sent SWIFT messages to try to recall the payment and chased it up several 
times. Its provided screenshots of the messages it sent but these appear to have been sent 
to another area of HSBC. I queried this with HSBC and was told that this was a different 
entity of HSBC, so no payment details had been shared, instead the original payment had 
been searched and updated in the case. 
I also noticed that following the initial message of 17 February 2021 requesting the recall, 
the other entity of HSBC had asked for further information to help trace the payment. This 
was requested on 2 March 2021, but it didnt look like the required information had been 
provided, although further chasers were sent. After I queried this with HSBC, I was told that 
there was a delay in sending the recall request. It was received on 17 February but wasnt 
processed until 2 March. HSBC said it had been contacting the receiving bank asking for a 
recall of funds, yet no response had been received from them. I was provided with a 
screenshot of a SWIFT message to, what Ive since been told is the intermediary bank, but it 
didnt show the date it had been sent.
When I asked further questions, HSBC provided another screenshot which appears to be 
from the intermediary bank referring to a message received on 6 December 2021. This says: 
We have contacted the beneficiary bank to return the funds and we will advise upon receipt 
of the information requested.
The information HSBC has provided so far, doesnt clearly show that it had requested a 
return of funds prior to December 2021. The only information Ive seen to show that 
messages were sent outside of HSBC were provided following my requests for further 
information. While, its possible HSBC did do everything it could to try to recall the payment, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate this. 
In any event, HSBC has acknowledged there was a delay in sending the cancellation 
request across (from 17 February to 2 March 2021). I also dont think HSBC has 
communicated with Mr E as clearly as it should have done. Mr E sent a number of emails to 
HSBC asking for help to get the matter resolved. On 18 March 2021, Mr E sent an email 
asking who HSBC was chasing, saying he believed the payment was sent to the wrong 
correspondent bank. On 23 March he forwarded the email from the bank of the intended 
recipient saying that it hadnt received the payment because the details were incorrect. It 
doesnt look like HSBC answered Mr Es question. On 22 April 2021, HSBC said it was 
getting no response from the receiving bank in respect of returning the funds and suggested 
Mr E contact them directly as it might assist with the return of the funds. But it still doesnt 
appear to have told Mr E where the payments were sent or who it had been chasing. 
Its difficult to know what might have happened if HSBC had communicated more clearly with 
Mr E, or had possibly done more to trace the funds. But I dont think HSBC is responsible for 
the payment going missing, so I dont intend to tell it to compensate Mr E for any financial 
loss. However, I think HSBC has caused Mr E unnecessary frustration and inconvenience by 
not communicating as clearly as it should have done. So, based on what Ive seen so far, I 
intend to direct HSBC to pay Mr E £200 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes 
experienced. This is in addition to the £75 its already paid him.
I set out what I intended to direct HSBC to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
HSBC said it was happy to accept the proposed additional £200 compensation. Mr E didnt 
respond with any further comments or information.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change them. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr E £200 for trouble and upset.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman