DRN-2565031
The complaint
The estate of Mrs I complains that Phoenix Life Limited (trading as Sun Life) declined a 
claim under a whole of life insurance and a funeral care plan due to them no longer being 
active. The estate of Mrs I is also unhappy Sun Life failed to contact the beneficiaries of the 
policies before they were cancelled. Its also unhappy that the two insurance policies were 
similar, and about the way Sun Life handled the complaint. 
The estate of Mrs I has three executors - Mrs B (the late Mrs Is daughter) Mr I and Mr D. 
The estate is being represented by Mr B (Mrs Bs husband). For ease of reference, and as 
hes been most involved in this complaint, Ill mainly refer to Mr B. 
The late Mrs I was sold the funeral care policy by Phoenix Life Limited and the whole of life 
insurance by Sun Life. But for ease, Ill refer to Sun Life throughout the decision. 
What happened
The late Mrs I took out a whole of life insurance policy with Sun Life in July 2001 with a £36 
premium to be paid every three months. In August 2015 this policy was assigned to a funeral 
director who would receive the sum assured to pay for Mrs Is funeral. This policy lapsed in 
February 2017 when Mrs I stopped paying the premiums. A letter was sent to Mrs I in 
April 2017 making her aware the policy was in arrears, and if she didnt contact them within 
fourteen days, the policy would be cancelled. 
A payment was made in April 2017, but a premium in May 2017 was also missed. Sun Life 
wrote two letters, one in July 2017 and another in August 2017 asking for the outstanding 
£36 to be paid otherwise the policy would be cancelled. It then sent a letter confirming the 
policy had been cancelled on 14 August 2017 due to non-payment. 
Mrs I took out a guaranteed over 50 plan in April 2011 for a sum assured of £2,080 with a 
monthly premium of £15. Sun Life said it was unable to collect a premium in January 2018, 
so it wrote to the late Mrs I. A £30 payment was then made in February 2018 for January 
and Februarys premiums. A further letter was sent in February 2018 to Mrs I from Sun Life 
saying her bank had contacted it to say the direct debit had been cancelled. 
In April 2018 Sun Life sent further letters to Mrs I advising her that it couldnt collect March 
and Aprils premiums. It then sent a letter in May 2018 to Mrs I which confirmed her policy 
had been cancelled.
In October 2019 Mrs I sadly died. Mr B contacted Sun Life to find out whether her funeral 
would be covered by either of her policies. Sun Life said that as both policies had now been 
cancelled due to non-payment it couldnt accept a claim on either policy. 
Mr B was unhappy with this response, so the complaint was brought to this service. He said 
it wasnt fair that Sun Life collected premiums, but then refused to accept a claim on either 
policy. He felt Sun Life shouldve contacted the next of kin when the policy was in arrears so 
this could be cleared, and the policies couldve continued. He feels a claim should be paid 
on both policies and Sun Life should pay compensation for the delays caused by its handling 
of the complaint, the confusion in receiving two final response letters and for the distress 
caused by Sun Life writing to Mrs B when Mr B had contacted it to make a claim and 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think both policies 
were unsuitable. And he didnt think Sun Life had acted incorrectly or unfairly when it didnt 
contact the next of kin about the policies lapsing. He felt Sun Life hadnt treated Mr B unfairly 
when it wrote to his wife because she was the next of kin. So, he didnt think the premiums 
should be refunded, the claims accepted or that Sun Life should pay any compensation.
 
Mr B disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said it wasnt possible to 
make Sun Life aware that it could contact him about the late payments because he wasnt 
aware of the policy. He felt Sun Life didnt contact the next of kin because it wanted to keep 
the premiums. And that Sun Life should pay a significant penalty for writing to his wife when 
she was grieving and in no fit state to deal with this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mr B and the rest of Mrs Is family. Id like to assure him I havent 
made this decision lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence he and 
Sun Life have provided us  and Id like to assure him that if I dont mention a particular 
point, its not because I havent considered it, but to focus instead on whats important to the 
outcome.
Mr B believes Sun Life should accept claims on both policies. But Im afraid I dont agree. 
Neither policy has a cash-in value and a claim can only be paid if all the premiums are up to 
date and paid on time. Ive considered the correspondence provided by Sun Life and Im 
satisfied it correctly wrote out to the late Mrs I to let her know she was in arrears on both of 
her policies. It also made her aware the policies would be cancelled if no further payment 
was made. And because no further payment was made it fairly cancelled the policies and 
sent confirmation this had been done. So, I cant fairly ask Sun Life to accept the claims 
here. 
Mr B is unhappy Sun Life didnt attempt to contact any next of kin when the policies were in 
arrears. And that Sun Life shouldve done this due to Mrs Is age. Sun Life has added that 
its not its policy to contact next of kin once a policyholder reaches a certain age unless they 
are told to do so, because of data protection. Im sure her next of kin wouldve helped with 
the payments if that was necessary, but I dont agree that Sun Life has done anything wrong 
by not reaching out to them. Mrs I was the policyholder and hadnt given Sun Life any 
instructions on who else it could write to about her policy when it was still active. If Sun Life 
had written to any next of kin without Mrs Is permission, this wouldve likely been considered 
a breach of data protection. So, Im not satisfied it did anything wrong by not contacting the 
next of kin earlier.  
I note Sun Life wrote to Mr Bs wife when answering the whole of life complaint. I understand 
why that wouldve been difficult for her in the circumstances. And confusing when Sun Life 
had previously responded to Mr B in relation to the funeral care policy. Ive seen that 
Sun Life issued an apology for the delay in sending an acknowledgement letter and for the 
inconvenience it caused. Which I think is fair in the circumstances and in line with what Id 
expect Sun Life to do in similar cases. So, Im satisfied Sun Life hasnt treated Mr B and the late Mrs I unfairly here. So, Im not 
going to ask it to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs I 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman