DRN-3126129
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Canada Life Limited unfairly declined her group income protection 
claim. 
Mrs P is recently represented, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as being made by her 
directly.
What happened
The following is only an overview as both parties are familiar with what happened.
Mrs P had access to a group income protection policy through her employer. The policy was 
designed to provide a regular benefit in the event of incapacity due to illness or injury, and 
after a period of 13 weeks. 
In August 2019 Mrs P became absent from work. She made a claim on the group income 
protection policy in October 2019, and said shed been suffering from work related stress. 
Mrs P experienced other conditions following her initial claim too.
During Canada Lifes assessment Mrs P complained about the progress being made. 
Canada Life acknowledge itd caused some delays and offered Mrs P £50 in compensation. 
However, it later declined Mrs Ps claim and said the available medical evidence hadnt 
demonstrated an incapacity in line with the policy terms. 
Mrs P complained but Canada Life maintained its decline. To recognise its previous delays it 
did increase its compensation offer by another £50, taking its total offer to £100. So Mrs P 
approached this service.
Our investigator didnt think Canada Life had unreasonably found that incapacity had not 
been demonstrated. They did accept Mrs P had experienced a number of different health 
conditions though. And although they thought Canada Life had been responsible for some 
delay, they said the £100 compensation it had already offered to reflect that was fair.
Mrs P disagreed. She said the medical evidence had demonstrated incapacity throughout 
the deferred period and her own testimony had been disregarded. She said the insurer had 
misinterpreted the medical evidence, matters had not been investigated objectively, and 
neither her mental health nor the totality of her health conditions had been fairly dealt with. 
So, as no agreement was reached on the matter Mrs Ps complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be interfering with Canada Lifes decision to decline this claim. Let 
me explain why.
Canada Life has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably 
decline a claim. The terms and conditions of the group policy set out that it will treat a 
member as suffering incapacity if:
throughout the deferred period and beyond, the members illness or injury prevents them 
from, and makes them incapable of, performing the material and substantial duties of their 
normal occupation.
The policy also set out that Canada Life defines material and substantial duties as meaning:
 the duties that a member is normally required to do to perform their normal occupation 
and which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified by you or the member. The duties refer 
to the tasks the member is required to perform, and whether those tasks could be carried out 
for you or any other employer. In addition, a journey to and from the members normal 
residence to the normal place of work is not regarded as part of the normal occupation.
Both sides are familiar with the material and substantial duties of Mrs Ps normal occupation, 
so I wont recite those here. 
The stress/mental health conditions
When Mrs Ps claim was first submitted, it was explained that she was suffering from work 
related stress. Reference to her suffering from work related mental health problems was 
noted at the same time too. 
Workplace stress would not be considered an illness for the purposes of Mrs Ps income 
protection claim, and I dont think it was unreasonable of Canada Life to take that position. I 
acknowledge Mrs P disagrees with this and says there was more evidence that Canada Life 
could have sought in relation to her mental health, but the onus to demonstrate a valid claim 
falls to the claimant. Mrs P would have been the party needing to demonstrate, through 
medical evidence, an incapacity in line with the policy terms. 
Canada Life was entitled to rely on the medical evidence made available to it. While I wont 
refer to every piece of available medical evidence, I do note that a medical report of 
10 March 2020 advised there was no objective evidence of Mrs P having an underlying 
psychological condition. The same report also said that Mrs Ps reported psychological 
condition wasnt preventing her from returning to work. And another report of 28 March 2020 
also said: 
(Mrs P) was thus off work in a position of being able to return to work were it not for the 
conditions at work and their lack of resolution. Were it not for this, she could have returned to 
work within weeks of coming off work on August 2019.
Mrs P has asked that some of the medical evidence be forgiven for its lack of reference to 
certain health concerns. For example she says the lack of reference to mental health 
problems within the GP records shouldnt be considered unsurprising  because other 
conditions were presenting more immediate concern for her, and her GP, at the time.
I appreciate Mrs Ps request, but it wasnt unreasonable of Canada Life to rely on what was 
made available to it. The medical evidence made available did contain themes of Mrs Ps 
stress and mental health issues being triggered by workplace matters. And Im not 
persuaded that it was unreasonable of Canada Life to find that psychological problems had 
not prevented her from working throughout the deferred period and beyond. 
The TIAI dont think it was unreasonable of Canada Life to find that Mrs Ps TIA was not preventing 
her from working throughout the deferred period either. 
The medical evidence relating to this condition shows Mrs P was referred to an NHS Stroke 
Service in October 2019, having reported a sudden loss of vision in one eye. It also shows 
her loss of vision had completely returned after four to five hours, no gross focal neurological 
defect was identified, visual activity was intact in both eyes, and there was no visual field 
defect. It shows Mrs P was advised by the stroke service not to drive for a month, was 
referred for some additional examinations, and had a follow up review arranged for three 
months time. 
However, the same evidence also sets out that Mrs P was discharged from any further follow 
ups by the stroke service in December 2019. In addition, the medical report noted above (of 
10 March 2020) sets out that Mrs Ps absence from work was not due to her TIA. And the 
medical report of 28 March 2020 sets out that her TIA had not prevented her from working 
throughout the deferred period and beyond either. 
The musculoskeletal problems 
Hip pain was also something that Mrs P said was preventing her from working, but Im not 
persuaded that this is corroborated within the medical evidence either. 
Again, without referring to everything available, Mrs Ps GP records show that she reported 
worsening hip pain at the end of November 2019. In early December 2019 the same records 
note that she had a good range of pain free movement on examination, but was given pain 
medication to manage to intermittent pain. By the end of December 2019 Mrs Ps pain was 
noted in the GP records as being much better, and none of the medical reports I cited above 
found that Mrs Ps hip pain would have prevented her from working throughout the deferred 
period and beyond either.
Mrs P has explained that she is concerned about the independence of the medical reports 
provided. She says they should be treated with caution, and shes questioned whether this 
service should seek CVs to verify impartiality. While I appreciate Mrs Ps concerns, this 
service will not be seeking CVs and as I set out above, I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Canada Life to rely on the medical evidence that was provided.
Wrist pain was also another condition that Mrs P said prevented her from working, but within 
the available evidence this was noted as improving throughout the deferred period. For 
example, in September 2019 reference was made to Mrs P being advised to wear a brace, 
but there was no advice to refrain from work and her pain levels were noted as improving 
within the same month too. Mrs P was also noted as having used her affected hand for most 
things in October 2019, and in November 2019 she was noted as only having worn a splint a 
couple of times at night, with it otherwise not being needed. 
Mrs P says the lack of reference to her wrist problems was because she was already signed 
off work by her GP, and therefore it was inevitable that those problems didnt feature as 
significantly as they otherwise would have done. As I set out above, I appreciate Mrs Ps 
explanation regarding the lack of medical evidence in places. But Canada Life was entitled 
to rely on the evidence that was made available to it, and I dont think it was unreasonable of 
it to conclude Mrs P hadnt demonstrated incapacity throughout the deferred period and 
beyond because of her wrist pain.
The gynaecological problems
Mrs P was referred to a consultant gynaecologist by her GP in January 2020. I am also aware that she underwent investigative procedures the following month, and was scheduled 
for surgery in March 2020 which did not go ahead due to covid-19. 
I have no reason to doubt Mrs Ps testimony in relation to how difficult the symptoms of her 
gynaecological problems were to manage. And I am aware that she was advised to wait to 
return to work until after her operation had taken place. However, Mrs Ps operation did not 
take place, and I dont think Canada Life acted unreasonably in concluding that the medical 
evidence relating to her inability to work appeared to be based on the understanding that the 
operation was expected to go ahead as originally planned. Nor do I think it acted 
unreasonably in concluding that Mrs Ps gynaecological problems did not demonstrate 
incapacity in line with the policy terms. 
Both parties will be aware that my role is not to reach a medical opinion on whether Mrs P 
was or was not incapacitated. It is to look at all of the available evidence and arguments and 
decide whether I think Canada Life acted reasonably in declining this claim. Mrs P clearly 
feels very strongly about her position and I fully appreciate that she has been unwell. 
However, based on the available evidence in this complaint I am not persuaded that I can 
fairly conclude Canada Life acted unreasonably in declining this claim. So, I will not be 
interfering with its decision. 
The delays
Canada Life was responsible for some delays during its assessment of matters and I agree 
those delays had an impact on Mrs P. 
Our investigator rightly highlighted that there is not medical evidence to corroborate the 
stress and anxiety Mrs P says Canada Life caused her. However, Mrs P was unwell, and I 
fully appreciate that finding herself in the position of making a claim for income protection 
was likely to have been both physically and emotionally challenging. Delays during this time 
would have understandably caused Mrs P additional worry, upset and frustration, and so I 
think it was right of Canada Life to recognise that. 
Putting things right
An award of compensation is not intended to be punitive. It is intended to be a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact a business mistake has had on someone. 
I understand Mrs P did not accept Canada Lifes offer of compensation at the time. But 
applying the above approach here, I think Canada Lifes total offer of £100 is both a fair and 
proportionate reflection of the impact its delays had on Mrs P and I think it should now be 
paid. 
My final decision
Canada Life Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 in compensation and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
 
So my decision is that Canada Life Limited should pay £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman