DRN-2214914
The complaint
Mr O  on behalf of Company U  complains that certain underwriters at the Society of 
Lloyds (the underwriters) have unfairly declined his insurance claim.
What happened
Company U took our event insurance for an external event it was planning to hold at a 
nightclub venue. The policy included cancellation cover if the event was cancelled due to 
reasons beyond the companys control.
The event was subsequently cancelled due to licensing issues with the venue. The director 
of the venue provider had gone absent without leave, which resulted in the police 
withdrawing the necessary permits, and ultimately forcing the cancellation of Company Us 
event. Mr O made an insurance claim with the underwriters for the cancellation of the event, 
which they declined. The underwriters said that the venue provider was a participant under 
the policy terms and conditions  and said that such contractual disputes with participants 
were excluded. Mr O complained that this was unfair as the venue is just a hired space and 
is not a participant.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he thought the underwriters had applied the 
exclusion unfairly. The underwriters disagreed, stating:
Company U had a contract for the provision of the venue. If the venue was not provided 
due to reasons within the control of the venue, this amounts to a breach of contract. The 
fact that the event was ultimately cancelled by the police is irrelevant.
The policy wording states that a participant is someone who performs a function critical 
to the successful fulfilment of the event. The provision of the venue clearly fits this 
definition as the event could not go ahead without it, and it is widely accepted in event 
insurance that the venue is an integral part of the event. So it is entirely reasonable to 
construe the venue provider as a participant  such that the claim falls within scope of 
the exclusion.
As the underwriters did not agree, the matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 September 2020 where I said I was minded not to 
uphold Mr Os complaint. I set out the following provisional findings:
The policy terms and conditions state: 
What is covered
1.We will reimburse you for the net loss following the necessary cancellation, 
abandonment, disruption or rescheduling of the event, which is the sole and direct result 
of a cause not otherwise excluded which occurs during the period and is beyond your 
control and the control of the event organiser and participants.
The underwriters accept that the event cancellation was beyond the control of Company U, but 
determined that the proximate cause of loss (i.e. the venue providers failure to complete the licensing 
process) was excluded under the following policy exclusion:
What is not covered
This policy does not cover any loss directly or indirectly arising out of, contributed to by, or 
resulting from
3. Any contractual dispute or breach by you or any participant. A participant is defined by the 
policy as:
Any party who is contracted by you to perform a function critical to the successful fulfilment of 
the event.
Mr O submits that the venue provider is simply that  a venue. He says that they are not a participant 
or partner in the promotion, and that a participant would have a say in the running of the event and 
any liabilities connected to it. But I have seen nothing in the policy definitions that supports Mr Os 
interpretation of the term participant in this regard.
The policy definition is clear in that a participant is any party contracted to perform a function critical 
to the successful fulfilment of the event. Company U had a contract with the venue providers for the 
provision of the venue (amongst other things)  a function that can reasonably be regarded as critical 
to the successful fulfilment of the event given that it could not proceed without it.
And it was seemingly due to the venue providers failure to complete the permit and licensing process 
that resulted in the police having to force the cancellation of this event and all future events arranged 
by the same venue provider. Company U had a contract with the venue provider, for which they were 
under the following obligation:
The [venue provider] agrees to hold the event in good faith, to the best of their abilities in a 
professional manner and in accordance with [Company Us] reasonable directions.
As such, it appears that the venue providers are in breach of their contract with Company U given that 
they could not fulfil their side of the agreement to provide a venue and hold the event. And, but for the 
venue providers actions/omissions, the event would likely not have been cancelled.
Therefore, I consider that the underwriters have fairly excluded Company Us claim given that the 
proximate cause of loss in these circumstances was a contractual breach by a participant (the venue 
provider). Its important to note that the term participant in this context has not been assigned its 
usual everyday meaning (i.e. a person taking part in something, such as Company Us promotion) 
because the word has been assigned its own definition by the policy. And, having considered the 
policy definition carefully, Im satisfied for the reasons outlined above that the venue provider can 
fairly and reasonably be considered as a participant.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Company U, and I understand that the 
cancellation of the event was out of their control. However, the policy terms and conditions do not 
cover the circumstances of this claim. Company U may, however, want to seek legal advice about 
pursuing the venue provider for damages due to breach of contract.
I invited further comments from both parties in response to my provisoinal findings. The 
underwriters responded agreeing with my decision, but no response was received from 
Mr O.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that neither party has provided any further comments or evidence for consideration, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out above in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O  on behalf 
of Company U  to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman