DRN-2538392
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc made a payment to a third party before it confirmed 
he was involved in an incident. AXA has admitted it was a case of mistaken identity but has 
refused to remove the claim from his record until it recovers its outlay from the third party. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXA has paid Mr C £250 compensation for the fact it failed to keep in touch with him, 
update him on the claim and because there have been delays in the claim being 
resolved.  I think this payment fairly reflects the trouble and upset hes been caused 
so I wont be asking AXA to pay Mr C anything more here. 
AXA has said in line with industry practice it wont close the claim or remove it from 
an external database until it recovers its outlay. However, there is no guarantee this 
will ever happen and as such AXAs process of making the payment first before 
establishing for certain if Mr C was involved, is having an ongoing impact on Mr C. I 
dont think is fair or reasonable. It isnt that AXA cant remove the information, it can 
but is currently choosing not to. 
AXA has said if it is directed to remove the record, when it receives a payment the 
claim will have to be re-opened and it will automatically go back on to the database. It 
will then take a further four weeks to remove again.  However, this response is given 
on the assumption it will recover its money directly from the third party.  I dont think it 
is reasonable for the incorrect information to stay on Mr Cs record for an unknown 
amount of time at the detriment of Mr C, for the sake of avoiding a four-week period 
of time in the future which may or may not happen. Mr C has already explained that 
having the claim on his record has meant his insurance premiums have increased.
For the reasons, above I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Putting things right
I think AXA should remove the claim from the external database and write to Mr C 
once this has been done. Mr C can then provide this information to any relevant 
insurer(s) for them to recalculate his premiums.  
Should it recover its outlay and the record reactivates, AXA should again take timely 
steps to remove it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr C complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. I direct it to 
put matters right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman