DRN-2732892
The complaint
Mr E complains about the administrative service provided by OPENMONEY ADVISER 
SERVICES LTD, referred to as the business. 
What happened
 On 15 April 2020, the business sent Mr E a response to his query about transferring his ISA. 
It asked him to sign a Letter of Authority (LOA), so it could obtain information on his behalf 
directly from the ISA provider. 
On 16 April 2020, Mr E received an email from the business, effectively confirming that it had 
made contact with the ISA provider, and that it would take several days to do this. It said:
We have sent your Letter of Authority (LOA) to your provider(s) and we are currently 
awaiting confirmation that it has been received. This process can take several days 
depending on your provider(s). Once we have confirmation of this, we can start 
communicating with your provider(s) about your ISA to get all the information we need for 
our product review.
Subsequently, Mr E received another (the same day) asking him to provide the information 
directly. He says that he decided that it would be safer for the business to obtain the 
information directly rather than from him. 
On 8 May 2020, Mr E requested an update from the business via email. The next day he 
received a response asking him to provide details of his ISA.  
One of our investigators having considered the complaint thought that it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that the business couldve done more to clarify what information was 
required and from whom. In other words, it shouldve made clear, from the outset, that it 
needed information from Mr E (about his ISA) rather than getting him to sign a LOA 
effectively undertaking to obtain this information on his behalf, when it wasnt possible to do 
so. 
Furthermore, in subsequent correspondence, the business asked Mr E to provide detailed 
information about his ISA, which he wasnt comfortable in providing and thought hed leave it 
to the business to obtain. The investigator said that in the circumstances the business 
should pay Mr E £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. However, he didnt 
think the business was responsible for any loss in value of the ISA. 
Mr E disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In short, he said the compensation was 
unreasonable in the circumstances, and didnt accurately reflect the trouble and upset 
caused or the extent of the financial loss suffered by him. He doesnt understand why the 
complaint wasnt fully upheld. 
Mr E also said that in August 2020 he was recommended by the business to place his 
investment into Portfolio 1, and since he intended to accept this, theres no argument that 
his ISA wouldnt have been placed into this portfolio. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
The suitability report  dated August 2020  was received after the transfer had taken 
place. 
But during the delays the funds werent invested. 
The compensation he has recommended is for the poor service provided. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to partially uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im persuaded that the business provided Mr E 
with unclear and conflicting information following his enquiries about the possibility of 
transferring his ISA over. 
Mr T has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im 
required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, 
but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr E and the business, and reach what I
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather
than take any sides.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Like the investigator I think the business shouldve provided Mr E with clear information from 
the outset about the information that it required from him, rather than getting him to sign a 
LOA  on 15 April 2020  leading him to believe that it would obtain the information directly 
from the ISA provider. Im aware that this wasnt going to happen despite the business 
subsequent (next day) erroneous confirmation that it would take only a few days. 
Although Im only considering the actions of the business, I think Mr E ought reasonably to 
have questioned the (conflicting) information that he received from the business on 16 April 
2020  that sought to obtain information on his behalf on the one hand but asking him to 
provide detailed information about his ISA on the other hand  rather than to ignore it until 8 
May when he asked for an update, or even 3 June when he asked the business to confirm if 
it had asked the ISA provider for details. I appreciate Mr E didnt have to hand all the 
information that was requested and thought it better to leave it to the business to get this 
from the ISA provider, but I still think the position about who should obtain/provide the 
information wasnt clear. That notwithstanding, following Mr Es request for an update, the business shouldve 
explained the situation instead of sending him a stock email asking for his ISA details again. 
I note the business accepts that this was an error and will take steps to ensure that this 
doesnt happen again. 
I know that Mr E sought clarification on 3 June 2020 and that it wasnt until 9 June 2020 that 
the business confirmed that it hadnt contacted the ISA provider and the email confirming 
that it had, was generated automatically  it was sorry for any confusion caused. 
For the reasons set out above, I think the investigators recommendation for the business to 
pay Mr E £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused is broadly fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
I appreciate what Mr E says about the delays caused by this error, but I dont think this 
means that the business is responsible for any loss of value. Im mindful Mr E says that on 
15 April 2020 the business sent a response to his query about a possible transfer of his 
ISA, this wasnt a formal application to transfer, rather exploring the possibility of doing so. 
Furthermore, it wasnt clear where he was going to re-invest the funds. 
I appreciate the points Mr E makes about the August recommendation, but that was 
following this issue and not before. So, I agree with the investigator that hes not entitled to 
any further compensation. 
I should also make clear that the ISA value is dependent on the stockmarket. In the 
circumstances I dont think the business is liable for any losses that occurred as result of 
market movement, because the stockmarket isnt something that the business has any 
control over. 
I appreciate Mr E will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Whilst I appreciate his frustration, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what 
he says, Im unable to give him what he wants.  
Putting things right
I think the investigators recommendation for the business to pay Mr E £150 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. 
OPENMONEY ADVISER SERVICES LTD should pay Mr E £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman