DRN-1976274
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1995 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mr A and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They 
complain they didnt know PPI had been added to their mortgage account; they didnt 
consent to it - there is nothing to prove they did consent to it; and they didnt need PPI. So 
they conclude it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr A and Mrs A disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
The PPI only covered Mr A, so sometimes I will only refer to him. Although I will refer to Mr A 
and Mrs A where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As and Mrs As case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland should have made Mr A and Mrs A aware they had a choice in buying the 
policy. They say they didnt know the policy had been added to their mortgage. They didnt 
consent to it  and there was nothing to prove they did consent to it.
Neither Bank of Scotland nor Mr A and Mrs A have any paperwork from the time of sale. I 
dont think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 25 years ago. But it does 
mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to 
have happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Bank of Scotland sold policies like this at the time I think 
its likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mr A and Mrs A have 
told me makes me think Bank of Scotland didnt follow its normal process here. I also noted 
the policy was tailored to cover Mr A only  even though Mrs A was also working. So I think 
their primary concern was that only Mr As salary needed PPI support which means they 
probably were aware it had been added to the mortgage account. So overall, I think its more 
likely Bank of Scotland made it clear to them they had a choice about the PPI, and they 
agreed to buy it to cover Mr A, although I can understand why they may not remember that 
now.
Bank of Scotland says the sale was advised. So the policy had to be suitable for them. I 
think the policy probably was suitable for them because Mr A was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and he wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).
Also for advised sales, the PPI information had to be clear enough for Mr A and Mrs A to 
make an informed decision. So I looked at their financial circumstances to see if the policy 
remained suitable for them.
I noted Mr A says he would have received employee benefits, he had no savings, and had 
life insurance. But the PPI policy could have paid out for a maximum of 12 months on a 
successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment cover. This would have been in 
addition to and for longer than his employee benefits. The mortgage was a long term 
financial commitment secured on their home for 20 years, so I think having the security that 
their mortgage repayments would be made if Mr A was unable to work would have been 
important to them. So I dont think Mr As employee benefits made the policy unsuitable.
Mr A said he could rely on his wifes income and sick pay. I do understand the point, but he 
may not have been able to rely on this at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think 
Mrs As finances make the policy unsuitable.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr 
A and Mrs A about the PPI about the cost, benefits and exclusions wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But having decided they chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover for Mr A and it was affordable. For the reasons Ive explained 
above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if something went wrong. 
And I have already noted that Mr A was not affected by the main exclusions and limitations 
in the policy. So I think they most likely had enough information about the cost, benefits and 
the exclusions at the time of the sale and I think its unlikely that more information would 
have put them off from buying it.
Mr A said he did not agree to pay commission with the PPI. The FCA said that if a business 
got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI policy  more than 50% of the 
PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could create an unfair relationship 
between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Bank of Scotland said Mr As and Mrs As mortgage was taken out in 1995 and ended in 
1997. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here. So Bank of Scotland doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Mr A and Mrs A paid for the PPI they had with their 
mortgage. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr A and Mrs A. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
said and about what Bank of Scotland said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold their complaint.My final decision
I do not uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman