DRN-3054083
The complaint
Ms P complains that Oplo CF Ltd (Oplo) irresponsibly granted her a loan that she couldnt 
afford.
  
What happened
In November 2015, Ms P acquired a car and financed it through a hire purchase agreement. 
Oplo completed the underwriting process. Ms P was required to make monthly payments of 
£262.37 with a final payment of £387.49 if she wanted to own the car at the end. The 
agreement was to last for 48 months and the total repayable under the agreement was 
£12,718.88. The loan was settled in October 2019.
Ms P says that Oplo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Oplo didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment. It verified Ms Ps income through payslips and reviewed her 
credit file. It noted that the monthly instalment on this new agreement was less than 20% of 
Ms Ps income and explained that this meant her application passed their lending criteria. 
They didnt think there was therefore evidence the loan wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Oplo ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Ms P.
Oplo didnt agree and said Ms P met their lending criteria in place at the time and that 
supporting bank statements were not required. It explained that the credit file indicated a 
more recent stable financial position and was deemed to be acceptable and within risk. 
Sustainability was proven and Ms P had chosen to retain the vehicle and maintain her 
repayments rather than exercise her termination rights under the agreement.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oplo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
The credit check Oplo completed showed an active County Court Judgement and delinquent 
accounts all within the preceding 12 months. It showed three historic default balances. 
Payments towards two of them were limited and one of only £45 remained outstanding. I 
think this ought to have indicated that Ms P was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore 
would have been proportionate for Oplo to have dug deeper to gain a better understanding 
of Ms Ps financial circumstances before lending.
I think it would have been proportionate for Oplo to have found out more about Ms Ps 
committed expenditure, such as her living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Oplo would 
have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable 
to place significant weight on the information contained in Ms Ps bank statements as to 
what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Ms P was paying a total of £1,447 towards her committed living expenditure 
including rent, council tax, gas and electric, internet/broadband, insurances,
four debt collection companies, a loan, mobile phone contracts, food, and petrol. Ms Ps 
income was about £1,284 and this demonstrates that she didnt have enough disposable 
income to afford the additional borrowing. 
Oplo disputed the adjudicators expenditure calculation. It said it wasnt fair to include a one- 
off insurance cost or a payment to the DVLA and it said some phone charges and a loan 
hadnt been declared and shouldnt therefore be considered. Im not persuaded by those 
arguments. I think the insurance was a necessary expense and I dont except that by not 
declaring expenses for her phone, or a small loan, Ms P wasnt incurring those costs. I think 
the evidence in her bank statements suggest the loan was unaffordable and Oplo therefore 
didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
  
Putting things right
As I dont think Oplo ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Ms P should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £7,127. Anything Ms P has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Ms Ps complaint Oplo CF Ltd should do the following:
Refund any payments Ms P has made in excess of £7,127, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ps credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo CF Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Oplo CF Ltd 
must give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Ms P asks for one.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Oplo CF Ltd to put things right in the manner set out 
above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman