DRN-3535402
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) 
unfairly turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In 2000, Mr and Mrs N bought a timeshare membership from a business, Business X. It cost 
£6,966 and was paid for using the trade-in of an existing timeshare and a loan of £2,171 
taken with GE Money. 
Mr and Mrs N said that when they took out the timeshare, they were told that it would 
increase in value and that they had to take borrowing from GE Money to finance the 
timeshare purchase. But the timeshare has decreased in value and theyve been unable to 
re-sell it.
So they feel that Business X misrepresented the nature of the product to them at the time of 
sale. Mr and Mrs N said that had they known what Business X said wasnt right, they would 
not have taken out the timeshare in the first place.
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs N  using a 
representative  wrote to GE Money in 2019 (the Letter of Claim) to make claims under 
Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation.
GE Money responded to say it didnt have any information on its systems about Mr and      
Mrs Ns loan due to the time that had passed. As they only keep information about a closed 
loan on their systems for six years, its likely this is because the loan closed more than six 
years ago. They did locate a second loan taken out on 14 February 2005 for £5,382.15 that 
was paid to Business X. They confirmed this was redeemed in April 2006. As the sale took 
place many years before the complaint, GE Money said that meant the complaint had been 
brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 CCA had been brought too late, so 
they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They also looked 
at s.140A CCA, but they didnt think that provision applied as the loans predated the 
enactment of that provision.
Mr and Mrs Ns representative said that they also wished to complain about the loan taken 
out in 2005 too. Our investigator looked at that loan but thought any claim had been brought 
too late for the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs Ns representative disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I 
reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision in which I agreed with the 
investigator, but for slightly different reasons. My provisional decision read as follows: 
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs N said that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE 
Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would 
be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear 
however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs N may have to bring these claims 
has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if 
GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Ns claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
As Mr and Mrs N made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA, its covered by s.9 
LA  which, means they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to 
make the claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ns case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
March 2000 and February 2005. It was at those times that they entered into an agreement 
based, they say, on the misrepresentations of Business X. They say, had the 
misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshares. And it was on 
those days that they suffered a loss, as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in March 2000 and February 
2005, so Mr and Mrs N had six years from those dates to bring a claim. But they didnt try to 
contact GE Money about their claim until March 2019, which was outside of the time limits 
set out in the LA. So I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation 
claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Our investigator looked into any potential claims that could have been brought under s.140A 
CCA. They concluded that neither of the loans that were taken out were covered by the 
provision as they were taken out and ended before s.140A CCA came into force.
Having looked at the claim that was brought by Mr and Mrs Ns representatives in March 
2019, I cant see that they actually made a claim under s.140A CCA. So I make no findings 
on that point, albeit that Mr and Mrs Ns representatives may wish to confirm whether the 
provision was in force should they wish to make a claim to GE Money.
Unaffordable lending
Our investigator looked at whether there was any possible claim for irresponsible or 
unaffordable lending and dealt with this in his view. However, I cant see that any complaint 
was actually made about this, so I make no finding on this issue.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither Mr and Mrs N, their representative or GE Money responded with any 
additional comments or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to stray from 
the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
So, for the reasons outlined above, I think GE Money acted fairly when it turned 
down Mr and Mrs Ns claim under the CCA. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman