DRN-2844272
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) have dealt
with their claim for loss of resilience to a sofa under an extended warranty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M purchased two sofas and a chair in February 2016 and at the same time took
out a five year extended warranty which came into effect in May 2016 when the furniture was
delivered. The policy covered fabric stains, accidental damage and furniture structure. It also
included loss of resilience to foam and fibre interiors provided the loss of resilience was
greater than 30%.
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs M say they noticed that the seat of one of the sofas had
dropped considerably compared to the other so put in a claim under the policy. Mrs M said
that she tried unsuccessfully to contact Ageas by telephone and to complete the online claim
form, so she emailed them. She complained that there was an excessive loss of resilience in
one seat and provided photographs. Ageas declined the claim stating that stains & damage
or anything that happens gradually is excluded under the policy. Mrs M emailed Ageas to
say that she didnt understand their decision and that she was claiming for loss of resilience.
Mrs M says that she did not receive a reply.
Ageas say that they were first contacted by Mrs M in March 2018 when they say she
telephoned to make a claim for loss of resilience. As Mr M was the policy holder they did not
proceed with the claim but asked Mrs M to get her husband to contact them. They did not
hear from Mr M. Mrs M then emailed Ageas in October 2018 to make a claim. Ageas spoke
to Mr M, and Mrs M was added to the policy. A claim was then completed online. This was
declined initially on the basis that the damage was gradual and therefore excluded under the
policy. Ageas say that they did respond to Mrs M again in November 2018 advising that the
claim was brought over five months from the time the damage was first noticed and as a
result their position had been prejudiced. Any damage may have further deteriorated and
they were therefore unable to properly assess it. Ageas say that they did not receive any
further contact from Mr or Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M then brought their complaint to us. They said that the claim had been declined
unfairly and that Ageas were difficult to contact on the telephone. Our investigator did not
agree. She thought that there was a delay in the claim being brought between March and
October and agreed with Ageas that it would then be difficult for them to properly assess the
sofa and that any damage may have worsened due to wear and tear. She also concluded
that the service provided over the telephone was reasonable as Mrs M had been able to
speak with a member of staff on a number of occasions.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigator. They said that they did not telephone Ageas
in March 2018 and obtained telephone records showing that no calls to Ageas were made at
that time. Ageas said that regardless of the March 2018 call, Mr and Mrs M had stated in
their claim form that they were aware of the damage in June 2018 and that the matter was
still not reported until October. Our investigator considered the issue again, but still did not
uphold the complaint. She felt that even if the call had not been made by Mrs M in March,
she was aware of the problem in June, and the claim had not been reported promptly. Mr 
and Mrs M did not agree and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 27 April 2021. I said:
Ageass terms and conditions state that the policy covers Structural defects to fabric or
leather furniture, mattresses (including mattress protectors) following the expiry of the
suppliers warranty caused by loss of resilience to foam and fibre interiors . What is not
covered is damage that is consistent with wear and tear or anything that happens gradually
and loss of resilience if under 30%.
The terms and conditions also say that In order to make a claim you must notify the service
provider as soon as possible after the incident, and in any event no later than 7 working days
after the occurrence. Any delay in notification may result in permanent damage and will
invalidate your claim.
Mr and Mrs Ms claim is for loss of resilience to one of the cushions, which is something that
is clearly covered under the policy. The sofa was never assessed by Ageas for loss of
resilience, and their reason for declining the claim appears to be the delay in reporting it.
This they say has prejudiced any repairs that they might have carried out and the original
problem may have been made worse by additional wear and tear.
Ageas say that the claim was first notified to them by Mrs M in March 2018 when she rang
them to report it. She was told that as the policy was in her husbands name he would need
to be the one to make the claim. I cannot see, however, that Mrs M was told at that point that
the claim should be made within seven days, or that it should be made promptly otherwise
the claim might be declined. Neither was a letter sent to Mr M to inform him that if he wished
to make a claim, he should do so within the specified time. The seven day time limit is
included in the policy document but is in small print under the claims procedure. Ageas have
said that they would not necessarily expect customers to strictly adhere to the seven day
limit, but they would expect claims to be made promptly. The covering letter that is provided
with the policy document does not mention any time limit at all. I think that if this was an
important part of any claim, it would have been fair to point this out to Mrs M when she rang
and send a letter to Mr M.
I have not seen phone logs or full records from Ageas, but they have sent me a spreadsheet
of contact they say they had with Mr and Mrs M which includes the call in March. Mrs M
denies the call and has produced records from her phone provider showing the calls she
made on that day. I am not sure which number Mrs M is supposed to have rung to make her
complaint, but none of Ageass advertised claim numbers appear to be included in the phone
log. However, even if there had been contact in March, if Ageas were going to rely upon the
time limit in their terms and conditions, I think it would have been reasonable for Ageas to
advise Mrs M of this and to have written to Mr M accordingly.
Ageas also say that Mr and Mrs M have said in their online claim form, that they first became
aware of the problem with the cushions on 1 June 2018. I have looked at the claim form that
Ageas have provided but it does not appear to be the actual, or complete form completed by
Mr and Mrs M. There is no name, address, contact details, policy number or date  details
that I would expect to see in a claim form. It is also not set out as if it is completed by the
customer. Mrs M says this is not the form that she completed as she provided a lot of detail,
and photographs, which are not contained here. She also says that some of the information
contained is incorrect. Mr and Mrs M say that were not living in their home address on 1
June 2018 due to repair work and their furniture was in storage. Mrs M says she wouldtherefore not have put 1 June on the form as the date they first became aware of the loss of
resilience. The sofa is also recorded as being 47 months old which would clearly not have
been correct in October 2018.
I understand Ageas saying that if a claim is not reported promptly their position could be
prejudiced as a problem could be made worse with continued use. However, loss of
resilience is not something that is going to happen suddenly, like accidental damage. It is
also not something that is necessarily going to be obvious to begin with. It is something that
builds up over time and I think it would be difficult for the average person to know when it
gets to the point when it can properly be considered as excessive loss of resilience. It is not
clear to me when Mr and Mrs M first became aware there may be a problem with the sofa,
but even if it had been in June 2018, I do not think it unreasonable that it wasnt reported
then. It was only in October 2018 that Mrs M said the problem was so noticeable that she
could no longer use the sofa.
The policy states that the validity of the claim will be assessed and If this does not resolve
the problem then an authorised technician will visit your home. I can see from photos
provided by Mr and Mrs M that there is a marked difference between the two seats on the
sofa. I do not think it was fair for Ageas to have declined the claim and not to have sent out a
technician in October 2018. I appreciate that it may now be difficult for them to establish the
loss of resilience as it would have been in October 2018, although Mrs M says that she has
not used the sofa since then because it is too low for her.
Mr and Mrs M also complain that Ageas were difficult to contact by telephone. Although I do
not have full contact logs from Ageas, I can see that Mrs M did manage to contact Ageas by
telephone in October 2018 and that Ageas also rang Mrs M to assist her making the online
claim. I therefore do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Response to my provisional decision
Ageas accepted my provisional decision and have agreed to inspect the sofa and consider 
the claim for loss of resilience. 
Mr and Mrs M raised some additional concerns. They pointed out the length of time that this 
matter has been ongoing and the effect that this has had on their health. They were also 
upset that their integrity had been brought into question by Ageas.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs M that I have considered very carefully the additional 
comments that they have made following my provisional decision. 
I understand that both Mr and Mrs M have suffered from ill health over the last few years, but 
I cant fairly say that this was caused by their claim. I do accept, however, that the ongoing 
claim caused them additional stress and worry. I understand that they felt their integrity was 
being called into question by Ageas challenging their account of phone calls and 
communications. I accept that this must have been upsetting. I hope that by upholding part 
of their complaint, this has gone some way towards dealing with this concern. I also think 
that it would be fair for Mr and Mrs M to be paid £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Ageas have agreed to make this payment.
My final decision and reasoning remain the same as in my provisional decision, with the addition of compensation for distress and inconvenience as above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in relation to the loss of resilience 
of their sofa. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to deal with Mr and Mrs Ms claim and to 
arrange for a technician to examine the sofa to consider if it has suffered excessive loss of
resilience. 
I also require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman