DRN-4275145
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about a claim he made on his Markel International Insurance Company 
Limited legal expenses insurance policy, for which cover was declined.
Mr S feels Markel have treated him unfairly both in relation to his initial claim and a further 
claim for cover hes made since then.
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his Markel legal expenses insurance policy for cover to appeal a 
decision made by a party I shall refer to as W, to revoke particular certificates he held in 
relation to firearms. 
Markel asked its panel firm of Solicitors to review the merits of Mr Ss appeal. The panel 
Solicitor as well as a Barrister instructed by her advised the appeal had less than 51% 
prospects of success, which was a requirement of the policy.
Mr S pursued the appeal to conclusion without Markels assistance. He was successful in 
part in that he didnt lose his certificates. Rather Mr S agreed to sign an undertaking 
agreeing not to do certain things going forward. 
The policy sets out that if Mr S claim is declined for having prospects of 50% or below and a 
policyholder goes on to win their claim, then Markel will pay their reasonable costs incurred 
in pursing things. As such Markel offered to pay Mr Ss costs. Mr S has yet to provide Markel 
with the evidence theyve requested to allow them to assess any legal costs he might have 
incurred in pursuing the appeal himself.
In 2022 W revoked Mr Ss certificates again for breach of the earlier undertaking he gave. Mr 
S asked Markel to help him appeal Ws decision once more but Markel have refused on the 
basis that the claim hes making is new and they are not the legal expenses insurance 
providers for the policy year in which he has claimed.
Mr S is unhappy with the position Markel have taken throughout his claims. In particular, he 
wants Markel to provide him with cover to appeal the current decision by S.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaints and concluded they shouldnt be upheld. He 
thought that Markel were entitled to rely on the legal opinions they received when they 
declined his initial appeal and that they didnt now need to cover his second appeal because 
that arises out of a separate cause of action- namely the undertaking he gave. Mr S doesnt 
agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr S complaint for broadly the same reasons set out 
by the investigator.
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr Ss
policy is no exception. That means his claim needed to have over 51% prospects of
succeeding for Markel to cover it. 
We dont think this is unfair. Legal action like the one Mr S was seeking to take can be 
expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely 
to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to fund claims in these 
circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong
or based on factual mistakes. Markel did this. The panel Solicitors advice as well as that of 
the Barrister was that Mr Ss appeal didnt have reasonable prospects of being successful. I 
appreciate that Mr S doesnt agree with that advice but that doesnt mean Markel did 
something wrong and should have funded his claim. And Markel did fund the Barristers 
further costs in considering further submissions and evidence put by Mr S in response to the 
original opinion. Despite that the Barristers opinion remained unchanged on the question of 
the merits of the appeal. 
In this case Im satisfied that the Solicitor and the Barrister were suitably qualified to advise 
on the nature of the appeal Mr S wanted to make and theres nothing Ive seen in the 
submissions hes made that makes me think the advice is based on factual mistakes. I 
appreciate that Mr S doesnt agree with some of the things the Barrister has said but that 
doesnt mean that his advice was based on factual mistakes.
In circumstances where a policyholder doesnt agree with the legal advice given on the 
merits of their claim, they are entitled to obtain their own legal opinion. If thats supportive of 
the merits of their claim, we usually adopt the approach that a legal expenses insurer should 
consider this further. In this case Mr S went on to pursue his appeal himself and win, in part. 
So, in accordance with the policy terms Markel have agreed to cover his reasonable costs in 
doing so. I dont think Markel need to do anything beyond this. Its now up to Mr S to provide 
evidence to support the legal costs hes incurred in pursuing that appeal if he wants Markel 
to reimburse him for them. 
Turning now to Mr Ss claim for cover for a second appeal against W; Im satisfied that 
appeal arises out of a new cause of action- namely the undertaking he gave to conclude the 
previous appeal. So, Im not satisfied that this amounts to a continuation of the original claim 
he asked Markel to cover in 2020. 
Mr Ss policy is a claims made policy. That means that only claims reported during the policy 
period will be covered. As this claim falls outside the policy period, its not a claim that 
Markel need to consider. If Mr S has legal expenses insurance with another provider for the 
relevant policy period, he should claim on that policy accordingly.
Overall, I know Mr S will find my decision disappointing but for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I cant say that Markel acted outside their policy terms nor that the position theyve 
taken in respect of both claims is unfair.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint against Markel International Insurance Company Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman