DRN-2281195
The complaint
Mrs O says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her payment protection
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs O applied for an Egg credit card online in 2003. She says, among other things, PPI was
added to her account without her knowledge. She also says she had a medical condition at
the time.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Os complaint upheld it. He didnt think Mrs O wouldve
bought the PPI if Barclays had made it clear to her she wouldnt be covered for her medical
condition.
Barclays disagreed. It said it had asked Mrs O about her medical condition but she hadnt 
replied. It didnt think shed have been caught by the policy limitation on known medical 
conditions.
In my provisional decision of 7 October 2020, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold      
Mrs Os complaint.
Both Mrs O, through her representatives, and Barclays say theyve nothing to add in 
response to my provisional decision. Mrs Os complaint has now come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint about the sale of the PPI, for 
the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
Mrs O applied her the card and the PPI online and I cant see anything to make me think its
likely Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs O. So Barclays didnt need to make sure it was
right for her in her circumstances. But it did need to give Mrs O enough clear information
about the PPI for her to be able to make that decision herself, in an informed way.
Mrs O says she was diagnosed with a medical condition in 1996. The policy Mrs O bought
didnt cover her for known medical conditions. From what Ive seen, I dont think Barclays
drew the policy exclusion to Mrs Os attention as clearly as it shouldve done. I understand
Mrs O couldve read the policy wording  which included the exclusion  as part of her online
journey. But it seems shed have had to move to a different screen to do this and, even then,
the policy wording is long and detailed and the exclusion is in the middle of it. I dont think
the policy exclusion is either prominent or clear.
But this doesnt mean I must automatically uphold Mrs Os complaint. I need to go on to
decide if I think its likely Mrs O wouldnt have bought the PPI if shed been given clear
information about the exclusion. And to decide this, I need to look at the information we have
about Mrs Os medical condition.
All we know so far is, as Ive said, it was diagnosed in 1996. I can see as part of its own
investigation, Barclays asked Mrs O to tell it about any medical conditions she had. And its
shown us nothing to say Mrs O responded to this request.
Our adjudicator has also recently asked Mrs Os representatives for information about her
condition. He asked: was she on medication for it, how was it managed, when had she last
seen a doctor for it, had she had any time off work because of it and how did it affect her on
a daily basis? Our adjudicator asked for this information twice. But weve had no response
from Mrs O or her representatives.
The condition Mrs O has can be serious, but it can also be very well-controlled and have
little impact on a persons day-to-day life. I have very limited information about how Mrs Os
condition affected her. And what I have isnt strong or clear enough for me to say its likely it
affected her to the extent that she wouldnt have bought the PPI if it was clear her condition
wasnt covered.
If I get any further information about Mrs Os condition and how it affected her  specifically,
the evidence our adjudicator has asked for (as Ive outlined above)  Ill look at this issue
again. But, based on the information I have so far, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Os complaint
on this point.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mrs Os complaint
about the PPI sale but I dont think there are. Mrs O says PPI was added without her
knowledge. But Barclays has given us screenshots of her likely online journey. And this
includes showing us that, to carry on with her card application, shed have had to have
clicked either yes or no for PPI. Since the cover was added to her account, I think its
likely she clicked yes (although, after so long, I think its entirely understandable she no
longer remembers this).
I can also see Mrs O was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of
the main exclusions and limitations we see in these policies. So, subject to getting any
further information about Mrs Os medical condition, I dont think there was anything to stop
her claiming the full policy benefit if shed needed to.
I also think the PPI gave Mrs O useful protection she didnt otherwise have. Mrs O says she
wouldnt have got any sick pay through her work and didnt have any savings or other
insurance policies to fall back on if things got difficult. The PPI wouldve helped with Mrs Os
card repayments for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness or
unemployment claim.
So, looking at everything Ive got so far, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs O because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium)  so it should have told Mrs O about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs 
O, that was unfair.To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
As Ive already said, neither Mrs O, through her representatives, nor Barclays say theyve 
got anything to add to my provisional decision. And, having looked at everything again, I 
cant see any reason to change the conclusions I set out in it and that therefore now form 
part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision of 7 October 2020, the PPI policy wasnt 
mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs O.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs O any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman