DRN-3652910
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about National Westminster Bank Plc.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made a number of points and arguments in response to our investigators opinion. 
I want to reassure him that Ive considered all of them. But I wont be addressing each and 
every point. Instead Ill be focussing on the crux of the complaint. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments, I agree with the conclusions reached 
by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Rs complaint is about whether his debt is statute-barred. As our investigator has 
explained it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide if a debt is 
enforceable as only the courts can decide this. We can however consider whether 
NatWest acted fairly by asking Mr R to repay the debt and by selling it to a third party 
and this is what I have addressed in my decision. 
It isnt unusual for banks to sell debts after a period of time and in this case, NatWest 
has explained that it made a commercial decision to sell the debt in 2018. It is 
allowed to do this and as letters were sent to Mr R from NatWest and from the third 
party confirming the change in ownership of the debt in line with NatWests usual 
process I cannot say that it did anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. I understand 
that the address used at the time was out of date and so Mr R didnt receive the 
letters, but Mr R had accounts with NatWest and it was his responsibility to ensure 
his contact details were up to date. As the letters were sent, I do not find I can say 
that NatWest did anything wrong in this process.  
I understand why Mr R thinks his debt shouldnt have been sold to a third party in 
2018, as he feels the debt should have been statue-barred by that time. As noted 
above it isnt my role to determine if a debt is enforceable but I note at the time of the 
sale, payments were being made towards Mr Rs debt. I appreciate that these were 
being made by a family member and Mr R has said he wasnt aware of the situation 
but given that payments were being made and that contact had been made in July 
2012 by Mr R and no issues about these payments raised, I do not find it 
unreasonable that NatWest continued to consider Mr R as liable for the debt and took 
a decision to transfer the debt to a third party.
Mr R has said that the token payments made by the family member for many years 
should have been challenged. While I note this comment, I also find it reasonable to 
accept that NatWest was receiving regular payments towards the debt and that it had 
no reason to challenge these. NatWest has explained that the family member had 
provided support on Mr Rs accounts prior to his financial difficulties and while the 
payments were small, as these were being made on a regular basis, the relationship 
was being maintained. Given this I do not find that NatWest acted unreasonably by 
accepting these payments without challenge. 
As the third party is now the owner of Mr Rs debt, I cannot hold NatWest responsible 
for any communication from the third party or any actions taken in regard to his debts 
by the third party from the date of the transfer. 
I am sorry to hear of the difficult time Mr R has experienced over the past years and 
can understand, given his mental health conditions, why he lost track of this debt. 
However, as explained I cannot say whether the debt is enforceable and so for me to 
uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that NatWest had done something 
wrong in the debt sale process or treated Mr R unfairly. In this case I do not find I can 
say this.
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman