DRN-3840805
The complaint
Mr B complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd wont release funds from his account. 
What happened
In late 2022, eBay told Mr B that he would need to verify his identity before it would release 
funds from his account. 
Mr B says he doesnt hold any of the documents eBay has requested. He contacted eBay 
but was unable to resolve the matter. So, he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She thought eBay had acted fairly, in line with its payments terms of use.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators outcome. So, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
eBay says Mr B joined its managed payments service in July 2022. In doing so, he would 
have agreed to its payments terms of use, which say a seller must:
Provide us with all information which we may require for purposes that include: verifying 
your identity, complying with applicable anti-laundering and sanctions screening obligations, 
allowing us to manage settlements of your transaction proceeds, and assessing fraud and 
risk. If you are an individual, this information may include, without limitation, your full name, 
address, phone number, date of birth, taxpayer identification number, bank account 
information and a form of government-issued identification (e.g., a copy of your identity card 
or drivers license.
The terms of use go on to say that eBay may place a hold on a sellers funds if we have 
reason to believe there is an increased risk associated with the provision of our Payment 
Services or with a certain Managed Payment transaction, for example if we cannot verify 
your identityWe may also cancel or freeze the settlement of your proceeds as necessary 
to comply with our legal obligations in connection with fraud prevention, risk management, or 
regulatory compliance. Any hold placed on your funds will be lifted when the issue is 
resolved.
eBay says it informed Mr B that he was required to submit a copy of his passport, drivers 
license or government issued ID and confirm his name, address and date of birth in 
November 2022. It says that when Mr B contacted eBay about this, it told him the types of ID 
he could provide.
Mr B says he doesnt have any of the photo ID documents eBay asked for. eBay has 
advised of non-photo ID documents it would be willing to accept such as an old style drivers 
license (paper license), a marriage certificate or a letter from the Home Office. 
Mr B says he isnt able to provide any of these documents either. Weve asked Mr B if there 
is any other form of identification he can provide, so we could ask eBay if it would be willing 
to accept this. However, Mr B says he doesnt have any ID. I appreciate this is frustrating for 
Mr B, but I cant ask eBay to release the funds without being able to verify his identity. 
eBay says it is willing to give Mr B access to his funds once he provides the requested 
documentation. But, as he doesnt appear to have provided the ID as yet, I cant ask eBay to 
do anything more. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B, but Im satisfied that eBay has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with its terms of use. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman