DRN-2804478
The complaint
Mr M complains that Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) has acted unfairly in registering a default 
on his credit file and has been harassing him to repay a debt, relating a Hire Purchase 
agreement (HP) for a car that he had, that is in dispute.
Arrow has appointed another company to administer Mr M's account however as it is Arrow 
that is responsible for the account, I have just referred to it throughout this decision.
Mr M when bringing his decision to us also complained about the sale and other things 
relating to the HP agreement, for which Arrow are not responsible. These issues are being 
looked at under a separate complaint reference.
What happened
In April 2016 Mr M entered into a HP agreement, with the company I'll refer to as X, to 
purchase a car. The term of the agreement was 36 months. Unfortunately, due to 
unforeseen personal circumstances Mr M was only able to make one payment under the 
agreement.
When Mr M had fallen two months behind with his agreed payments, X wrote to him to 
advise him it would be looking to repossess the car, if he didn't bring his payments up to 
date. Mr M was unable to do this, and the car was repossessed in August 2016.
Following this Mr M contacted X to see if there was a way for him to have the car back and 
restart the finance agreement. X confirmed if Mr M wanted the car returned to him, he would 
have to pay the full amount outstanding on the finance agreement plus an additional £250 
fee that had been added for the recovery of the car. Mr M could not afford to do this. On       
1 September 2016 X issued a default notice to Mr M. In the same month Mr M called X to 
say he felt they had been heavy-handed in their approach and wanted matters looked into 
further. There is no record X ever responded to his concerns.
On 1 January 2019 X appointed a third party company to service Mr M's account. 
On 1 August 2019 Arrow purchased Mr M's account from X. Both the servicing company and 
Arrow issued Mr M a Notice of Assignment (NOA) letter on 22 August 2019, letting him know 
that Arrow was now responsible for his account. Arrows letter let Mr M know that it would be 
outsourcing the servicing of his account to another company, and they would be acting on its 
behalf.
Over a fourteen month period beginning in August 2019 and up to and including September 
2020, Arrow made a total of 26 call attempts none of which connected directly to Mr M, some 
of them went to voicemail and some were unanswered. It sent eight text messages asking 
Mr M to make contact, and sent six letters to Mr M, in an attempt to get him to engage with it.
In October 2019 Mr M complained to Arrow raising various issues including:
being pressurised into purchasing the car without being given time to review the 
credit agreement
not been informed of the interest rate prior to the purchase
the car being overvalued when it was sold
the car was undervalued when it was repossessed
his personal circumstances were not taken into account prior to the car being 
repossessed 
being confused with all the different companies that were involved
being unhappy with the default been reported on his credit file
contact from Arrow constituted harassment
the account was unlawfully sold to Arrow
Arrow did not have the right to process his data
Arrow responded upholding Mr M's complaint in part. In summary it said:
It was not responsible for anything relating to the sale or the car being overvalued, 
and this part of Mr M's complaint would need to be directed to the company he 
bought the car from.
It didn't agree that it choosing to outsource the servicing of the account to another 
company made matters confusing.
It felt the default had been applied fairly, however it noted the date the account 
defaulted was recorded incorrectly on the credit file as 2 May 2019. This was as a 
result of the information it was provided when it bought the account. It said as the 
default notice was issued by X on 1 September 2016 the account should have been 
shown as defaulted from 28 days after this. It said it would request a copy of the 
original notice of default from the previous servicing company and arrange for the 
records to be updated accordingly.
It didn't agree that it's contact with Mr M had constituted harassment.
It didn't agree that it had bought the account unlawfully, and as such it did have the 
right to process Mr M's data.
Mr M remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint, but before doing so let Mr M know he could only consider what 
had happened since 1 August 2019 against Arrow. He arranged for a separate complaint to 
be set up regarding Mr M's other issues, and this has been passed to another investigator to 
look into.
He went on to consider the issues he could against Arrow but didn't uphold Mr M's 
complaint. His reason for this were as follows:
He thought it was reasonable for Arrow to assume there was no dispute on this account as 
there was no contact between Mr M and X following the telephone call in September 2016. 
So, he didnt think it had done anything wrong in purchasing the account or in pursuing 
payment for it.
He looked into the level and types of contact Arrow had made or attempted to make with Mr 
M and didnt think it was an unreasonable amount, he said it amounted to so felt that it did 
not constitute harassment.
He was satisfied that the original credit agreement allowed X to allow another party to take 
over its part of the agreement, and as such it wasnt unlawfully sold to Arrow. Because of 
this, Arrow did have a right to process his data. He felt the NOA letter from Arrow was clear and he didnt think there was any attempt to 
deliberately confuse matters for Mr M by Arrow when outsourcing the servicing of his 
account. 
Finally, he said Arrow had a duty to make sure it was reporting correct information on Mr Ms 
credit file and so it was right to be reporting the default. He went on to say that Arrow had 
since confirmed that it was now reporting the date correctly as September 2016 as it should.
Mr M disagreed with the findings, he wanted an answer to all of his complaint points and felt 
as Arrow now owned his account it should take responsibility for everything. He wanted the 
default removed from his credit file until all issues were resolved. And he disagreed that the 
contact Arrow had tried to make wasnt harassment, he said it had affected his mental health 
and made him avoid answering his phone.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have only considered events that have happened since 1 August 2019 as all other events 
are the responsibility of X and so will not form part of this decision. Although a number of 
issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I consider to be 
materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so I have to tell Mr M that I 
have arrived at the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Having looked at Mr Ms HP agreement I can see there is a provision within it that allows X 
to transfer its part to Arrow. When Arrow bought the account, it would have done so along 
with many others and does so on good faith  that X will have checked resolved any 
outstanding disputes before selling the account on. Thats normal industry practice and what 
we expect in these circumstances.
We would however expect Arrow as the purchaser to contact X to find answers if alerted to 
any dispute. In Mr Ms case he did raise a concern with X back in 2016 but from what Ive 
see this wasnt disputing the debt itself, it was more to do with him wanting to know what had 
happened during the repossession of the car and not being happy with how he was dealt 
with on the calls he made. So, although Arrow did look to see if could find answers for Mr M 
about this, the dispute Mr M had with X doesnt call into question the validity of the debt and 
as such Im satisfied that Arrow is entitled to pursue payment on this account.
Looking at the contact Arrow has made or attempted to make with Mr M, I cannot fairly say 
this constitutes harassment, I say this because across the fourteen months that Arrow were 
contacting Mr M, the majority of the months saw less than five attempts to contact whether 
by phone letter or text. There is one month where thirteen attempts to contact were made or 
by phone, none of these calls was answered. I don't consider the attempts to be excessive in 
a 30 day period especially as it was not able to reach Mr M on any of those occasions. I do 
understand that it must be stressful for Mr M to have Arrow pursuing him for payment on an 
account where he feels he has been treated unfairly by the original lender. However, I would 
encourage Mr M to work with Arrow to come up with a payment arrangement that is suitable 
and sustainable for him to clear the account. As I think in the long run having an 
arrangement in place would be less stressful for him than feeling that he has to avoid 
answering his phone calls.Turning to the issue of the default registered on Mr M's credit file. When Mr M missed his 
payments on his HP agreement, he defaulted on the agreement. Notice was sent to him by 
X in September 2016. From this point it is right that the default is registered on Mr M's credit 
file. Arrow had been registering the default with a date of 2 May 2019 as this was the 
information that X had incorrectly provided it with. Once Arrow was aware of the error it 
obtained a copy of the original default letter and amended the date it was reporting the 
default is registered. This is in line with what I would expect it to do in the circumstances.
 I understand that Mr M does not feel it's fair for the default to be on his credit file, but 
lenders have a responsibility to report information accurately. A default, once registered, will 
be reported on a credit file for six years, as it's not yet been six years, I can't say Arrow is 
acting unfairly in reporting the default.
So in summary Im satisfied that Arrow has acted fairly when dealing with Mr M and so it 
follows I wont be asking it to do anything different here.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Arrow can do for him.
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman