DRN-3131511
The complaint
When Mr A amended the direct debit paying his HSBC UK Bank Plc monthly credit card bill,
HSBC mistakenly began taking payment from someone elses account. This wasnt 
discovered for some time. Mr A complains about what HSBC did when it realised its mistake.
 
What happened
Mr A said HSBC had been mistakenly taking the payment for his credit card from someone
elses account, since February 2018. In 2020, the other person discovered this mistake. And
in June 2020, HSBC just put all the missed payments and interest onto his card.
Mr A told us that when he contacted HSBC to complain, it offered to make an interest free
loan for him to pay it off. It also offered 32 months of no interest on his card.
Mr A wanted us to look at this, to see if HSBCs offer was fair. He said hed just never been
in a situation like this before.
When this case came to our service, HSBC said Mr A had missed a large number of
minimum payments onto his card, because those were made by someone else. It said that
he had to repay everything the other person had paid for him. So he owed £3,233.27.
HSBC had put this debt onto Mr As card. It offered to take it off again, and instead, to make
Mr A a 0% interest loan for the amount he owed, with a repayment of £150 a month. It also
offered a 0% interest offer for the remaining amount on his credit card for 32 months, if
needed. It had paid £300 compensation to his current account on 3 July 2020. It also
refunded the interest from the July statement which was £135.50, and a charge applied
when it put the arrears onto Mr As card.
Our investigator thought this could form a fair and reasonable outcome, if HSBC was also
willing to remove any adverse data from Mr As credit file since the error was uncovered.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he shouldnt have to pay any interest at all, and he should be paid
more than £300 in compensation.
HSBC said it had agreed to amend Mr As credit file for the period of May 2020 to July 2020.
That covered the time that it loaded these arrears back onto Mr As card, before he realised
thats what had happened. But it said hed known the position of the card since July 2020,
and he wasnt accepting its reasonable offers, so it didnt think it should do more than that in
amending his credit file. It said that as Mr A wasnt making his payments, and the account
remained out of order, then it should be reporting this.
HSBS did clarify that the loan it was offering to make to Mr A wouldnt show on his credit file, 
although it said that wouldnt prevent it from instigating recovery procedures if he didnt pay.
Our investigator also spoke to Mr A, who said he would prefer it if HSBC waived the interest
already accrued, instead of waiving interest going forward. He said that if HSBC only offered
an interest free period going forward it would likely encourage him to leave the balance
there, but if it waived the interest already applied that would encourage him to repay the rest
of the balance. Mr A thought this would be better for HSBC too.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that If Mr A was happy either to repay what
he owed in one lump sum, or to take up HSBCs offer of a loan, then HSBC should remove
any adverse information being recorded against the credit card from July 2020 onwards as
well. Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr A to refrain from accepting
HSBCs offer while he was asking us to look into this.
But our investigator didnt think HSBC had to waive the interest which accrued on the card.
He said Mr A shouldve been expecting interest to accrue during this time.
HSBC didnt agree. It still thought that the offer it had made was fair, and it didnt want to do
what Mr A suggested.
Our investigator wrote to HSBC again, explaining his view that HSBC was wrong to consider
Mr A was equally to blame for this mistake. So our investigator still thought HSBC should
amend Mr As credit file, to make sure that he wasnt affected by HSBC placing this debt
onto his card, and the length of time it had taken to resolve the resulting dispute.
HSBC said that it would accept our investigators recommendation to update Mr As credit
file to remove any missed repayment markers from July 2020 to June 2020. It said it
wouldnt be willing to extend this period, because Mr A was fully aware of the position on his
account and it was unreasonable for the situation to be extended or prolonged for an undue
length of time. HSBC wanted Mr A to start making his contractual monthly repayments and
either accept the offer it had made or to bring the account back in order himself.
Our investigator summarised the position for Mr A, as follows 
HSBC would move the arrears of £3,233.27 off his credit card, onto a 0% interest 
loan with repayments of £150 per month. This would be an internal agreement with 
HSBC and the loan would not report on Mr As credit file.
The remaining balance on the card will be put on 0% interest for 32 months.
HSBC would remove all adverse information being reported against the account from 
May 2020 until June 2021. From then on, Mr A would have to make the contractual 
monthly repayments due on the account,
HSBC had refunded a £12 over-limit fee, £135.50 of interest and paid £300 
compensation.

Our investigator thought this was fair.
Mr A didnt accept this. He said when HSBC discovered the mistake, it had just put the full
amount of the debt onto his card, and that couldnt be right. He said it should remove the
adverse data that was on his credit file as a result of this. He queried whether HSBC could
offer him a loan to repay this. He repeated that he would pay the full amount of the credit
card but not the interest.
Mr A felt that as HSBC had charged someone else, this was its mistake, so it should forgo
the interest on his card account.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decisionI issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr A appears to have set up a direct debit with HSBC to make sure that no payments 
were missed onto his credit card. But when he first made this arrangement, he wasnt 
relying on those payments to clear the debt on his card. He was also making irregular 
payments onto the card, every few months, in the form of a large lump sum to greatly 
reduce or clear the debt. This continued until 28 March 2019, when Mr A made the 
last such large payment.
Since then, Mr A has continued to use this card, but the card has only received the 
minimum monthly payments, made by direct debit, to reduce his debt. We now know 
those payments werent coming from Mr As account.
HSBC has accepted that it made the original mistake which caused this problem. 
And our investigator noted that, although Mr A hadnt realised for some time, that 
may have been because of a high number of transactions on his current account. He 
also said that, of course, the person whose account was wrongly debited hadnt 
realised for some time either.
Ive weighed up all of those points in coming to my decision on this case. But Ive not 
reached quite the same view as our investigator on this. I also note that our service 
does normally expect people to keep an eye on their own accounts, and I think that 
includes making sure that the right direct debits are being covered. So I do think that 
both sides bear some responsibility for what has gone wrong here. Ill bear that in 
mind, when Im thinking about what a fair and reasonable resolution would be.
Mr A has never suggested that he wouldnt pay back money which has been used to 
reduce his overall debt on this card. I think thats right. Not all of the payments that 
were made by a third party onto Mr As card will have been used up in interest. 
Where Mr A has benefitted directly from those payments, because the balance on 
the card was reduced, then I think he must pay this money back.
That leaves the interest charged on the card. HSBC wants Mr A to pay whats been 
missed. Mr A says all this interest should be waived.
Because I know HSBC caused this problem, I dont think its fair for HSBC to simply 
ask Mr A to pay all the interest now, that he would have covered by making these 
minimum payments. But equally, because Mr A has some responsibility for not 
noticing that his direct debit wasnt being taken, I also think it would not be fair to 
simply tell HSBC to waive all interest on this card for the time the minimum payments 
werent being made by Mr A.
In the particular circumstances of this case, I think it would fair and reasonable to 
hold HSBC responsible for the initial impact of this mistake. So I dont think its fair for 
HSBC to charge Mr A interest on the initial missed payments. As I can see that Mr A 
wasnt actually relying on the direct debit payments to pay off this card up to, and 
including, 28 March 2019, I think that its reasonable to say that HSBC should not 
charge interest on this debt until that point. 
From then, I think it ought to have been rather clearer to Mr A that the card balance 
was only reducing because of the monthly minimum payment. So this monthly 
payment gained more importance. And, at around the same time, the overall number 
of transactions on Mr As current account seems to me to have reduced.Im not suggesting that Mr A did notice at this point that his card was being paid by 
someone else. But I do think that he reasonably ought to have done so, at this point. 
So I think that its fair and reasonable, from 29 March 2019, for HSBC to also ask Mr 
A to pay the interest which was due on this card. HSBC should recalculate what Mr A 
owes, accordingly.
HSBC has offered Mr A an interest free loan, with payments of £150 per month, to 
pay off the arrears it has recently made him aware of. Although the arrears Mr A will 
owe will now be a little smaller, as a result of this decision, I do think that this 
provides part of a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
HSBC also offered to waive interest on Mr As credit card for the next 32 months. As 
Mr A hasnt been charged interest whilst this complaint has been ongoing, I think that 
HSBC can start that 32 month period from 5 June 2020, when it began loading these 
arrears on Mr As account.
I think that this interest free lending, which HSBC has offered, is part of a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case. I say that because I note that Mr As bank 
statements suggest his financial position was more comfortable when the payments 
onto his card first went wrong. That suggests he may have found it easier then to 
make these payments each month than he will to make these payments now. So 
ensuring further interest doesnt accrue now is part of providing a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this case.
HSBC has since agreed to amend Mr As credit file, to remove the record of missed 
payments once it loaded this additional debt onto Mr As card, up to June 2021. But it 
said that he should start making his minimum payments after this.
When HSBC loaded this additional debt onto Mr As card, that meant he significantly
exceeded his credit limit, and also increased his minimum payment from just under 
£200 per month to closer to £2,000. Although HSBC has offered to move this 
additional debt from Mr As card, it hasnt done so while this complaint has been 
outstanding. So Mr As minimum monthly payment is now showing as over £4,000.
I do think it wouldve been preferable for Mr A to maintain some payment to this debt 
during this time, as most of the debt on his card was accrued by his own card usage. 
But I think that for HSBC to expect Mr A to maintain minimum payments of the 
amount its currently asking for, whilst this matter was being resolved, was quite 
unreasonable. And, because of that, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr A to 
have refused to make those payments while this issue was under investigation by our 
service.
Because HSBC hasnt offered to move the disputed part of Mr As debt to a 
suspense account whilst this issue was being resolved, or otherwise facilitated a 
more reasonable monthly minimum payment for Mr A, I dont think it would be fair for 
Mr As credit file to show that hes been overlimit for all this time, or that these 
payments have been missed. So HSBC should remove all adverse data for this credit 
card, from 5 June 2020, until either the date that HSBC implements my final decision 
and moves the arrears from Mr As card to a separate suspense account, or the date 
that the deadline for Mr A to accept my final decision on this case expires.
HSBC has also paid Mr A £300 in compensation. I do think that HSBC has made 
mistakes in this case, both in the initial error on the direct debit, and in how it then 
sought to set things right. I know that it has made substantial offers to waive interest 
going forward. And I am also asking it to do more now, in waiving interest previously applied. But if HSBC had not made this payment, I would have made an award of 
compensation in this case, of this amount. Because HSBC has made this payment, I 
make no further award of compensation in this case.
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC wrote to our service, to say that it expected that Mr As card would still be over its limit 
after it had made the calculations I was requiring, to refund interest. So it asked whether Mr 
A would be responsible for bringing his account back within the credit limit.
I replied to HSBC to clarify that this was covered in my provisional decision. Id said that I 
thought the interest free loan that HSBC had offered Mr A to clear the arrears, with 
payments of £150 per month, would be part of a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. I said that I would include a more specific provision on this in my final award, if 
confirmed, so that this was clearer for HSBC. That means that if Mr A accepts the final 
decision, then HSBC would need to move the arrears to a separate, interest free loan, in line 
with its previous offer. That would resolve the issue of Mr As card being over its limit.
HSBC then responded to say that this was outlined within the initial resolution it had offered 
to Mr A. And it said it felt that the other recommendations I had made were the same as 
what had already been proposed to Mr A, which he initially rejected.
I dont think thats quite right. Although my proposed resolution reflects many of the 
suggestions that HSBC has made for a way forward to resolve this debt now, it also includes 
some additional elements, to deal with the impact on Mr As credit file, and with interest 
accrued on Mr As card while payments were being made by the third party. 
I also notified Mr A of HSBCs question, and my further clarification. Mr A said that he 
wanted our service to ask HSBC to confirm exactly how much the arrears were, before we 
finalised any decision. He said that he felt HSBC should already have set this out for him.
I replied to Mr A, and arranged for his credit card statements to be sent to him. I said that he 
would be able to get an idea of the scale of the refund for waived interest from those 
statements. But I explained that I wouldnt want to delay a resolution in this case, in order to 
provide Mr A with more exact figures. I was conscious of my duty to be fair to both sides, 
and my responsibility to bring complaints to a resolution. I also noted that an interest free 
period included in my provisional decision started from a fixed date in 2020, and runs for a 
fixed time, which means that this time period was running out for Mr A. So I explained that I 
felt it was important that I should move ahead with finalising my decision.
Mr A didnt respond further after this.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must do the following waive interest accrued on Mr As HSBC credit card, between 3 January 2018, and 28 
March 2019, inclusive, and recalculate his arrears accordingly.
waive interest on Mr As HSBC credit card for 32 months, starting on 5 June 2020.
move the remaining arrears to a separate suspense account, to be paid off as an 
interest free loan, with repayments at £150 per month.
remove all adverse data reported to credit reference agencies for this credit card 
from 5 June 2020, until the date that HSBC implements my final decision and moves 
the arrears from Mr As card to a separate suspense account, or the date that the 
deadline for Mr A to accept my final decision on this case expires (whichever is later).
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman