DRN-3634685
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
unreasonably refused to pay her claim under pet policy and impose several exclusions to her 
cover. 
What happened
Mrs W bought her policy to start on 12 April 2021 for her dog. It covered vet fees up £4,000 
per condition in each policy year with an excess of £90. 
In November 2021 as her dog was limping on her right hind limb as she had slipped when 
running, Mrs W took her to the vet. The dog was diagnosed with a cruciate ligament rupture 
which required surgery. So, Mrs W made a claim to Casualty in the sum of £3,677.75 for vet 
fees.
On assessment of the vet history of Mrs Ws dog, Casualty decided the condition which Mrs 
W was claiming had showed clinical signs before the policy started so it was excluded. 
Therefore, it refused to pay her claim.
Mrs W obtained further information from her vet, the referral vet and the previous vet which 
disputed Casualtys conclusions, but Casualty wouldnt change its stance. So, Mrs W 
brought to us.
The investigator was of the view Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded by 
the evidence from Mrs Ws vets showed her dog hadnt suffered this condition before the 
policy started. He didnt feel there was any weight issues of the dog which caused her 
condition. And it didnt think it was appropriate Casualty then imposed exclusions on Mrs Ws 
policy as on the application form it didnt ask Mrs W sufficient questions to then show she 
had misrepresented in order to permit Casualty impose these exclusions.
Casualty disagreed so Mrs Ws complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why
There are two issues in this complaint. The first as to whether Mrs Ws dogs condition was 
pre-existing and whether her weight had anything to do with the condition and the second 
whether Mrs W misrepresented the situation with her dogs pre-existing conditions.
Turning to Mrs Ws claim, Casualtys policy like almost all other pet policies doesnt provide 
cover for pre-existing conditions. This is a significant term of the policy and Im satisfied the 
policy documentation made this clear.
Whilst the vet history showed Mrs Ws dog did have previous issues with her right hind limb, 
Im satisfied from the evidence from Mrs Ws own vet, her previous vets and indeed the 
referral vets, clearly shows the dog issue with this cruciate ligament rupture was not pre-
existing. Sadly, Casualty has offered no independent evidence of its own to counter Mrs Ws 
evidence other than to simply disagree with it. Plus, it also produced extracts from a well-
known referral vets website on cruciate ligament disease along with other literature 
concerning weight and cruciate ligament issues. 
Mrs Ws previous vet explains that Mrs Ws dog was seen in November 2018 for lameness in 
her right hind leg. Whilst there was quite rightly in my view some discussion of cruciate 
ligament issues at that time, the issue was treated as a sprain and she recovered fine and 
wasnt seen again for two years. This vet explains that if she had had problems with cruciate 
ligament then, she would not have recovered like she did, and it would have reoccurred or 
persisted.
This vet also explained that Mrs Ws dog was seen again in December 2020, where she 
presented with left hind leg flaccid paralysis with the right hind leg being stiff. She was 
referred to a specialist neurological vet who diagnosed with an infarct causing ischemic 
myelopathy or non-compressive slipped disc.  This isnt related in any way to cruciate 
ligament rupture. The referral vets report of February 2021 confirms and explains it was 
limited to the left hind leg only (rather than the right hind leg) and she was recovering well 
with no ongoing issues. 
Mrs Ws present vet confirms the above and details that any cruciate issue that started in 
2018 would have certainly progressed to a level where an examination by referral vets two 
years later in 2020 would have identified it. Also given Casualtys notion that it was pre-
existing for three years then it should have presented as progressive lameness during that 
time and this wasnt the case with Mrs Ws dog. This would also concur with the extracts 
from the well-known referral vets website too. As that clearly identifies it would have 
progressed which for Mrs Ws dog, this didnt happen on the actual vet evidence in this dogs 
case. So, Im persuaded given the recovery and no further issues for three years, this dogs 
cruciate ligament issues were not pre-existing.
Casualty also referred to its term concerning the weight of the pet. I have previously dealt 
with this term in other decisions and I remain of the view that the terms wording means the 
weight issue has to be singularly causative of the condition being claimed. It says the 
following:
Veterinary Fees What is not insured?  Any claims resulting from Your pet being
medically overweight or underweight and this results in Your pet needing Treatment
as a result of not being the recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and
sex as recommended by a Vet.
Casualty in its final response letter to Mrs W said the following:
I note your comments regarding [name of dog] weight. A dog, much like a human 
who is overweight, may not only experience issues with joint mechanics but with 
inflammation, as fat tissue can cause systemic inflammation throughout the body. 
The by-products of which can alter the enzymes that keep cartilage and connective 
tissue healthy, which can lead to degeneration in the cartilage and Joints. As [name 
of dog] has been overweight since 2019, I am satisfied that her weight was likely a 
contributing factor in her developing cruciate disease.As I have detailed previously, cruciate ligament rupture does not concern the cartilage or the 
joints of any dog, so this reasoning is flawed and does not in any event meet the 
requirements of the policy term as to causation. 
The policy term requires the weight issue to be wholly causative of the condition claimed and 
based on this reasoning that wouldnt the case anyway. There is no evidence here that the 
weight of Mrs Ws dog caused her cruciate ligament to rupture and the reasoning given in 
the final response letter for relying on it is also  flawed given no joints or cartilage issues 
cause a cruciate ligament to rupture anyway. 
It a disease solely of the ligament itself fraying and weakening. It is also for Casualty to 
prove any weight issue is causative and I dont consider it has discharged this burden of 
proof by what was said in the final response letter. 
Its important to note Mrs Ws dog was just at the top end of the normal weight for her breed 
so was not excessively overweight. The average weight for her breed was between 22.4kg 
and 34.8kg. Mrs Ws dog was 34.9kg. I dont consider 0.1kg would have been wholly 
causative as the term requires, in causing her cruciate ligament rupture. There is simply no 
vet evidence before me to show me this was the case.
Therefore, I dont consider Casualtys view that this was a pre-existing condition to be either 
fair or reasonable. I also consider the weight of Mrs Ws dog had no bearing on the claim 
made by Mrs W. So, there is no reason why Mrs W should not be reconsidered within the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy with a firm view that it should be paid. With 
interest if Mrs W has already paid her vet. 
Turning now to the imposition of exclusions on Mrs Ws policy which Casualty imposed. In 
order to do this, Casualty must follow the provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Essentially that says it is for the insurer to ask the 
consumer clear questions on the application form. If it does that and the consumer doesnt 
answer those questions honestly, then it becomes a qualifying misrepresentation and 
Casualty, on showing it would have offered on different terms via its underwriting guide, is 
then entitled to change the terms of the cover in accordance with the remedies laid out in the 
Act. That can include exclusions, other limitations of cover, increasing the premium, or in 
deliberate misrepresentation even cancelling the policy. 
Casualty though didnt ask Mrs W any questions about the vet history of her dog. Instead it 
listed just one question, namely Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing 
condition? Mrs W replied no. 
It also had one assumption which said the following:
You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing 
or if it were to arise within the first 14 days from the policy start date or 5 days in the 
event of an accident.
Mrs W ticked a box to indicate she accepted this. 
And on this basis Casualty then decided Mrs W had misrepresented things and it imposed 
the following exclusions, saying had it known her dogs vet history, it would have excluded 
these. 
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Anything to do with the Right Hind 
Lameness that occurred on 23 November 2018 and Associated Conditions with 
effect from 12 April 2021.Excludes cover on ail claims with respect to The Back and Spine with effect from 12 
April 2021.
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Both Stifles with effect from 12 April 
2021 AND Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Cruciate Ligament and any 
Associated Conditions with effect from 12 April 2021.
Answering no to the question above and accepting the assumption above doesnt show that 
Mrs W somehow misrepresented anything though, not given I have decided the condition 
claimed for wasnt pre-existing given the vet evidence.  
However, I consider it significant that Casualty never asked Mrs W about her dogs vet 
history and it ought to have done if it is now saying if it knew her dogs vet history it would 
have imposed these exclusions. I dont consider the assumption and question to be enough 
under CIDRA to impose these exclusions. Normally we would see questions asking about 
any vet visits in the past relevant amount of time for example, where the consumer has the 
ability to detail these in the application form, not such a simply yes or no assumption and 
question. 
CIDRA also demands that its Casualtys burden of proof to show the consumer didnt take 
reasonable care in answering the questions before Casualty can change the contract terms 
including limiting the extent of the cover. From Mrs Ws point of view, she didnt think she 
was asking for any cover for pre-existing conditions so she was unaware she could be 
misrepresenting anything. Further as I have now deemed her claim didnt concern a pre-
existing condition, it is somewhat irrelevant. 
So, I dont consider Casualty has shown Mrs W failed to take reasonable care. And, as a 
consequence, that means I dont consider it can now use the remedies in CIDRA to change 
Mrs W policy coverage by imposing these exclusions. So, these exclusions should be 
removed.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd
Reconsider Mrs Ws claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
with a firm view of paying it.
Remove the exclusions from the policy.
If Mrs W has already discharged her vet fees, it should add interest of 8% simple per 
year from the date Mrs W paid her vet fees to the date it refunds her. If income tax is 
to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to 
Mrs W for HMRC purposes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 Rona Doyle
Ombudsman