DRN-2089502
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc failed to set up a standing order correctly, resulting in 
him going into arrears with his energy company. 
What happened
Mr B set up a standing order in April 2018 to pay his energy company £70 a month from May 
2018.  Payments were made each month.  However, Mr B received arrears correspondence 
from his energy company. As payments were being made by standing order, he thought this 
was a glitch  the energy company had billed incorrectly in the past. 
In February 2020 the energy company sent bailiffs to Mr Bs property and a meter was put 
in, as it hadnt received any payments. Mr B asked Bank of Scotland to look into this and it 
transpired the reference number was incorrect on the standing order. It attempted to retrieve 
the funds from the energy company, but it didnt respond. 
Mr B asked us to look into his complaint that bank staff had set up the standing order 
incorrectly, as he hadnt received a response. We notified the bank and it issued a response 
not upholding his complaint about the standing order  its records showed Mr B had set up 
the order himself without staff involvement. It did, however, offer £50 compensation for not 
returning a call, which it said it would pay into his account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied system records from the bank 
showed when a staff member had been involved on the account  as it did for an earlier 
standing order that had been set up in March 2018  and that wasnt present for the energy 
companys standing order. She therefore concluded the bank hadnt made an error. 
Mr B has asked for the matter to be reviewed. He says the process in March was the same 
process that happened in April. And the member of staff asked him to log-in using his 
credentials, following which they set up the standing order. He remains of the view it was the 
bank that made the error.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B feels strongly about his complaint, not least because of the situation it left 
him and his children in. But I can only make an award against Bank of Scotland if I find it had 
done something wrong. 
Bank of Scotland has provided internal records showing the setting up of the standing order 
in April 2018.  These only show Mr Bs internal system identification number for the standing 
order. This is contrary to the standing order set up in March 2018 which show both Mr Bs 
identification number and the branch staff number. I would expect to see both in April 2018 
if, as Mr B argues, the standing order was set up in branch with a member of staff helping 
him. 
I have considered Mr Bs testimony about what happened. But it isnt supported by the 
available evidence. The system records show only Mr B as transacting on the account in 
April 2018 when the standing order was set up. I therefore find it most likely that it was Mr B 
that set up the standing order and not a member of staff. It follows that as I find the bank 
didnt have any involvement with setting up the standing order, that it also didnt make any 
error in the reference number.  And as it wasnt a bank error, I find no basis on which to 
make an award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman