DRN-3198245
The complaint
Mr K complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited took too long to act on his 
instructions to transfer his shares to another provider. 
What happened
Mr K had an account with The Share Centre Limited (TSC). TSC was taken over by 
Interactive Investor in 2020. As Interactive Investor is now responsible for any complaints 
brought against TSC, weve been asked to set the complaint up against Interactive Investor. 
But, because the matters Mr K is complaining about arose whilst his account was still being 
managed by TSC, I will refer to the business as TSC throughout the rest of my decision.
When its business was taken over, TSC gave Mr K the option of moving his share account to 
Interactive Investor, or to a new provider. Mr K decided to move to a new provider who he 
said didnt charge as much.
Mr K says TSC was instructed to transfer his shares towards the end of November 2020, but 
the transfer didnt take place until the beginning of March 2021. During this time, Mr K 
decided to trade, and he had to pay TSCs fees which he said were around £700 more 
expensive than if hed been able to trade with his new provider. He says that one of his 
shareholdings went missing during the transfer and it took three weeks, and many emails, 
before the transfer was finalised. He wants TSC to reimburse him for the higher fees he had 
to pay and to compensate him for the stress and inconvenience the delay caused.
TSC acknowledged that it took too long for it to send Mr Ks new provider a valuation, which 
was required for it to arrange the transfer. TSC apologised for the delay and the 
inconvenience caused. It said further delays were caused because Mr K traded on the 
account and his new provider didnt realise there had been changes in his holdings since the 
original valuation had been sent.
Our investigator concluded that Mr K was aware of what TSCs charges would be if he chose 
to trade. He didnt think TSC needed to refund any of its fees, but he thought it should pay 
Mr K £150 to compensate him for the delay in sending a valuation to the new provider.
TSC agreed with our investigators view. Mr K didnt. He said, in summary, that:
He had to pay increased charges for leaving TSC.
He shouldnt be at a loss because of delays by TSC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
The letter of instruction from Mr Ks new provider was dated 26 November 2020. But TSC 
has provided enough evidence to satisfy me that the letter wasnt received by TSC until 
7 December.
TSC was dealing with a significant number of transfer requests at this time which led to a 
backlog. This meant there was around a six-week delay in it sending the required 
information about Mr Ks shares to his new provider. TSC apologised for the delay. Taking 
into consideration that many of its consumers had given transfer instructions, I dont think its 
unreasonable that it took longer than it might usually have done for TSC to act on these 
instructions. And Mr K was still able to trade on his account.
The transfer was further delayed, but I dont find this was due to something TSC did or didnt 
do. Its told us that Mr K carried out 23 trades on his account from 19 January to 23 February 
2021. Whilst he was of course entitled to continue to trade on his account until it was 
transferred, TSC could not transfer all his holdings until the various trades had settled. I dont 
find this was unfair or unreasonable.
Although TSC sent a revised list of share holdings to Mr Ks new provider, the new provider 
seems to have mistakenly been expecting a holding that Mr K had subsequently sold. And it 
wasnt expecting a holding that Mr K had bought. This misunderstanding led to a delay in 
finalising the transfer.
I dont find the further delays were due to a mistake, or delay, by TSC.
Mr K complains that he had to pay TSCs dealing charges. I understand the point he is 
making here. If his shares had been transferred to his new provider in the timescale hed 
expected, then he would have been trading through his new provider and paying his new 
providers dealing charges. But I dont find TSC needs to refund its dealing charges. I say 
this because, until Mr Ks account was successfully transferred, TSCs terms and conditions 
still applied. Mr K had chosen not to continue with his frequent dealing arrangement, so he 
was charged at TSCs standard dealing rate. I find this was set out reasonably clearly in an 
email to Mr K, so he was aware how much it would cost him to trade. And he was free to 
change back to the frequent dealing option before he placed the trades in 2021.
TSC agreed with our investigators recommendation to pay Mr K £150 to compensate him 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay because of its backlog. I consider 
this to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Share Centre Limited, now trading as Interactive Investor 
Services Limited, should pay Mr K £150.00.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman