DRN-3302046
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the performance of an investment ISA he took out in 2000. The 
investment is now managed by BMO Asset Management Limited.
What happened
In 2000 Mr B put £7,000 into an investment ISA with Company A. As part of the application, 
he selected a specific fund for his money to be invested into. 
Since 2000, Company A has gone through a series of mergers and changes. The fund Mr B 
selected has also gone through some changes and since 2014 his investment has been 
managed by BMO. 
In 2021, Mr B surrendered the investment, receiving £6,416.05. He also complained to BMO. 
He was disappointed with the performance of his ISA and the fact he had made a loss on his 
initial £7,000 investment. 
BMO responded to Mr Bs complaint. They said the fund hed originally selected was 
invested in the IT and technology sector, which was hit badly in 2002 when the telecom and 
technology bubble burst (commonly referred to as the dot com crash). They explained the 
shares hed bought were valued at 58.72p per share when hed invested, but due to the 
crash, by 2003 the price had dropped to 15.23p per share. They outlined how the fund had 
since undergone some mergers and rationalisation, and that the fund hed been invested 
into for the past 11 years had a stronger performance which had been steadily increasing 
during that time. 
Mr B was unhappy with this explanation as he felt BMO should have been looking out for his 
best interests and that they failed to offer him alternatives when the fund wasnt doing well. 
So Mr B brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked at the case but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr B disagreed, 
the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed with the performance of his investment. However 
Ive seen nothing to suggest BMO have done something wrong here. 
While there is little information from the date of sale given the years that have passed, I have 
been provided with the application form Mr B filled out in 2000. There is nothing on this 
which indicates Mr B was advised during the sale, or that he paid for an ongoing advisory 
service. BMO has also said the sale was execution-only, ie. that no advice would have 
been provided. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied this was very likely a non-
advised sale, so Mr B wasnt given a personal recommendation and he made his own 
decision about which fund/s to invest in. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr B paid for or was led to expect an ongoing advisory service 
from the fund manager. I appreciate the share price dropped dramatically in 2002/3, but 
there were no rules which said the fund manager needed to proactively offer him alternatives 
when that occurred, unless this was a pre-agreed service. And as Ive said, I dont think that 
was the case here. 
BMO is obliged to keep records of the share prices and send Mr B regular statements setting 
out the value of his investment. I cant see theres any dispute that they did both of these 
things. Mr B had the information available to him to know what his investment was worth on 
a regular basis. If he wanted to sell his shares or invest in a different fund, he would have 
been free to do so. 
I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling on this matter. But from what Ive been provided, it 
seems the significant drop in value of his investment was due to the dot com crash and not 
due to the actions of his fund manager. I simply do not have evidence to say BMO has failed 
in their obligations as the fund managers of Mr Bs investment and therefore I cannot uphold 
this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman