DRN-3110592
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank or Ireland (UK) Plc unfairly declined his application to extend the 
term of his interest only mortgage.
What happened
In 1999 Mr R took out a mortgage with his now late wife with Bank of Ireland. It was interest 
only over a term of 15 years. In 2006 Mr R took a further advance on an interest only basis 
over a term of 15 years.
In 2013, Mr R repaid the 1999 mortgage in full, just leaving the 2006 further advance. 
In 2020, Mr R asked Bank of Ireland to extend the term of his mortgage by ten years. Bank 
of Ireland declined that application. It said that the information provided by Mr R in 
connection with his application showed he had the means to repay the mortgage at the end 
of the term in 2021.
Mr R considers that Bank of Ireland hasnt treated him fairly. He said that he went to a lot of 
trouble obtaining all of the evidence that it asked for only to be told that it was declining his 
application. He said that Bank of Ireland should have made him aware of that possibility 
when he first spoke to it.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr R didnt accept what the investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
It wasnt clear why the bank declined his application when he had demonstrated the 
means and affordability to repay the mortgage.
As a longstanding customer of the bank with a good credit history the bank at no point 
told him that he was considered a risk.
At no point was he told that interest only was not an option.
He had given a credible long-term solution to repay the mortgage using a pension lump 
sum and the sale of an unencumbered property.
A term extension was in his best interests at that time. He had carefully considered his 
personal and financial position before applying.
He was forced to find a mortgage with another lender.
Bank of Ireland did not take into account his personal circumstances when considering 
his application. Its decision was unreasonable and inconsiderate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Ireland said it is permitted to use its commercial judgment to make decisions, it is 
under no obligation to extend the term of the mortgage and is entitled to expect repayment 
on the agreed end date. It said that it considered Mr Rs application, but declined it as Mr R 
was in the position to repay the mortgage at the end of term. It had no concerns about 
affordability or that the repayment vehicles were credible, and it thought the loan to value 
was low risk. 
Mr R entered into a contract with Bank of Ireland to repay the capital balance of the 
mortgage in 2021. It had a legitimate expectation that he would do so. But Bank of Ireland 
should also understand that borrowers circumstances can and do change. 
I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
MCOB 11.7 allowed Bank of Ireland to waive the more stringent rules that applied to interest 
only mortgage and allow variations to a mortgage where it was in a customers best 
interests. Providing that the mortgage was in existence prior to 26 April 2014, there was no 
new money being borrowed and there was no new borrowing after 26 April 2014. That is the 
case here. So I think it would have been reasonable for Bank of Ireland to assess whether 
extending the term of the mortgage was in Mr Rs best interests.
I need to assess what the likely outcome would have been had it done carried out an 
assessment of Mr Rs best interests. I'd note that this should have been an objective 
assessment of his circumstances to decide what was in his best interests. Just because Mr 
R wanted to do something or he would have been better off doesn't mean that it was unfair 
for the bank to decline the application for a term extension.
Mr R had two possible ways to repay the mortgage in full; cashing in a pension or selling an 
investment property.
Mr R told me didnt want to cash in the pension as he didnt plan to retire for around ten 
years and he had received advice it would not be cost effective to do so. He said hed 
received advice, but we havent seen a copy of any advice he received. I accept that on the 
face of it, it was unlikely to be in his best interests to cash in his pension at that stage.
That leaves the sale of the investment property. Mr R said that hed only bought the property 
in 2019 as a long-term investment and it wasn't right to consider selling it in 2021 because of 
the costs involved. I think it is difficult for me to make an argument that Mr Rs interests in 
keeping the investment property and presumably profiting from that outweigh the contractual 
rights of Bank of Ireland for repayment. Extending the term of the mortgage is unlikely to be 
cost or risk free for the bank. And it was Mr Rs decision to incur the costs of buying etc, 
knowing that repayment of this mortgage was imminent. 
Based on the evidence I have, I don't have enough to say that the costs and prejudice Mr R 
would have incurred by selling the property overrode the bank's right to seek repayment of 
the mortgage, based on my understanding that the proceeds of the sale would have been 
sufficient to repay the Bank of Ireland mortgage.
Ive not been presented with evidence of any persuasive reasons why it was in Mr Rs best 
interests to extend the term of the mortgage rather than use the sale of the property to repay 
it. So overall, I dont consider the decision taken by Bank of Ireland to decline the term 
extension was unfair.I note Mr Rs points that he has been inconvenienced by the way that Bank of Ireland went 
about considering the application for a term extension  including in obtaining significant 
amounts of paperwork to support the application. But I consider it was reasonable for Bank 
of Ireland to request this information. It would always have needed to obtain it to carry out an 
assessment of what was in his best interests. So I cant say that the inconvenience caused 
to Mr R was as a result of any unfair or unreasonable treatment by Bank of Ireland. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman