DRN-4124086
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc cant locate funds held with them since 1989. 
Shed like the money returned to her.
What happened
Mrs K has appointed representatives for this complaint, but for ease of reading Ill refer 
solely to Mrs K. In 1989 Mrs K received £23,500 from the proceeds of a sale of a property. 
However, there was a dispute over the true ownership of these funds and a third party 
obtained a freezing order in May 1989. Since then she says shes not had access to these 
funds.
In 2020 Mrs K contacted Barclays to find her funds. The bank searched their dormant 
account registers but couldnt find any trace of the accounts or funds. Mrs K however 
thought the search wasnt sufficient, as Barclays hadnt found accounts she currently held 
with them. 
Mrs K referred the complaint to our service. Initially Barclays objected to us looking at the 
complaint, saying as it was about events over six years ago it fell outside the time limits set 
on our service. One of our investigators felt though the complaint was in relation to Barclays 
not being able to find the money in 2020  so was within our remit to investigate.
In relation to the funds the investigator got Barclays to confirm the checks they carried out to 
search for Mrs Ks funds. The amount of information available was limited, but the 
investigator felt Barclays had done enough to trace the missing funds and couldnt find 
anything. They also clarified that Mrs K had two profiles with Barclays, because of a small 
misspelling of her name  which is why they hadnt originally found all of her accounts. But 
they felt that it was unlikely Barclays were still holding on to the funds. They didnt think the 
complaint should succeed. 
Miss K disagreed, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is unclear, contradictory, or simply unavailable I must base my decision 
on what I think most likely happened. I dont doubt Mrs Ks sincerity in bringing her complaint 
to us, and I thank her for the considerable evidence shes sent us. Ive reviewed everything, 
but in this decision Ill concentrate on the evidence I feel is essential to reaching a fair 
conclusion. I accept my findings will come as a disappointment to her, but I havent upheld 
her complaint.
Im satisfied that in September 1989 Mrs K held this £23,500 in a Barclays account. This ties 
in with the freezing order from May 1989 for this amount. This is the last firm record of this 
money being held. Barclays havent been able to provide any further statements for this 
account and considering the passage of time since then I dont find that unreasonable. 
Barclays are only obliged to hold records for as long as they are necessary  and theyve 
commented that their policy is to hold them for six years. Considering the last known time 
these funds were held with Barclays is over 30 years ago, I dont find it surprising that the 
records are largely unavailable. 
Neither party has been able to confirm if, or when, the freezing order was lifted. Mrs K has 
submitted some historical statements for her accounts, which Ive considered. But ultimately 
nothing Ive seen from Mrs K suggests to me that Barclays are still holding on to these funds. 
There are considerable gaps in time in the available statements, and some are from over a 
decade after the last known time the funds were held with Barclays. I dont see them as 
relevant to determining what happened to the £23,500.
Barclays have provided evidence of the various searches theyve carried out looking for any 
other accounts held by Mrs K. I dont see the merit in detailing these in full here, but they do 
include various spellings and misspellings of Mrs Ks name, as well as her current and 
former addresses. Im satisfied that the searches carried out by Barclays are of sufficient 
depth and detail that had they still be holding funds the account would likely have come up.
Usually an account that hasnt been used in a long time would move to dormancy  where 
the funds would be removed, the account closed and note made on a central dormancy 
register. Barclays have demonstrated that there are no records for Mrs Ks account on the 
dormancy register. This suggests to me the account wasnt closed because of inactivity  
although there isnt enough evidence for me to draw firm conclusions as to what happened 
to the money.
While the ultimate fate of these funds cant be determined, what I can reasonably conclude 
is Barclays arent currently holding on to them. On that basis, Im not asking Barclays to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman