DRN-1605935
 
The complaint
 Mr H is unhappy about The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds inability to 
acknowledge and respond to his multiple items of correspondence sent regarding his 
concerns.  
Hed like all his outstanding issues resolved and compensation paid for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
What happened
Prudential upheld the complaint. In short, it said:
It accepts that it failed to respond to Mr Hs concerns (since July 2019) in a timely 
manner, including failing to acknowledge his complaint, and providing incomplete 
information. 
Its sorry that its letter of 5 July didnt contain a full list of third party business partners 
that have had access to Mr Hs personal data. 
It doesnt uphold his concerns regarding his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) 
and the method or timing of delivery. 
It paid £200 compensation for trouble and upset caused by its inability to respond to 
Mr H in a timely manner.  
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
She was considering this complaint along with associated points made by Mr H. 
Prudentials offer to pay Mr H £200 compensation for trouble and upset was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
When Mr H received a list of businesses that had access to his details, he didnt 
receive the UK address for one of the businesses which operated out of Mumbai. It 
wasnt unreasonable for Prudential to send him the HQ address in India that had 
access to his details. On request Prudential provided the UK address at a later date. 
Mr H first sent his DSAR (via fax) on 2 July 2019, which was prepared and sent back 
on 30 July 2019  via a well-known third-party courier service  which tried to deliver 
the documents on three occasions between 31 July and 7 August 2019. 
Prudential explained that it couldnt send a paper DSAR by standard post given data 
and security issues, and it was unlikely to be able to fit the package through a 
standard post box. 
Prudentials alternative suggestion to send the information using a USB drive (with 
password sent separately) wasnt unreasonable.     
She cant say that Prudential attempting to deliver the documentation (albeit several 
times) via a third-party courier service amounted to a breach of the Protection from 
Harassment (Northern Ireland) Order 1997. Even though Mr H didnt want a courier to deliver the DSAR to him, it wasnt 
unreasonable for the service to visit his property in order to deliver the package. 
 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
Prior to making her findings what knowledge did the investigator possess regarding: 
oThe prevailing legislation within Northern Ireland and the accompanying duty 
of care owed to him by Prudential and their appointed representatives. 
oThe misconduct of the appointed agent remains unanswered and unresolved. 
oWas she a qualified barrister or solicitor?
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been referred to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, I think the offer by 
Prudential to pay him £200 compensation is generous, fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I think Prudential quite rightly upholds Mr Hs complaint in that it failed to acknowledge and 
respond to Mr Hs concerns, in a timely manner. I acknowledge that Mr H wrote several 
letters (which I dont think it is necessary to set out) and made telephone calls and thats why 
I think £200 compensation is reasonable compensation in these circumstances for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Im also unable to say that Prudential has done anything wrong in providing the HQ details of 
one of the companies in Mumbai as its the company thats overall in charge. Im aware that 
Prudential subsequently provided details of the company in the UK. 
Whether or not attempting to deliver a package (on several occasions) in-line with 
Prudentials instructions amounted to harassment for which Prudential was responsible 
under the relevant legislation, isnt really a question that I need to answer in order to reach a 
decision in this case. That might be a matter better suited to the criminal courts, although I 
dont think this is the sort of scenario that Parliament had in mind when passing the relevant 
legislation.  
Im satisfied that Prudential had reasonable grounds (in response to Mr Hs request) for 
instructing a well-known courier service to deliver the documents and did so in good faith. 
Im satisfied that it took reasonable steps to ensure that Mr H received the documents safely 
and I cant criticise it for doing so. Ive seen nothing to prevent Mr H receiving the document 
at his address in this manner. I also dont think that an alternative suggestion to deliver the information 
on USB via standard post - with the password sent separately - is unreasonable given Mr 
Hs concerns. 
Prudential is of course free to change its processes if it sees fit, and Im sure it will have 
taken on board Mr Hs concerns. But in this instance Im unable to blame Prudential for not 
sending the DSAR documentation in the post and to a different address.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds offer to pay Mr H £200 compensation is 
generous, fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman