DRN-3777765
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his car insurer Highway Insurance Company Limited because it 
has cancelled his policy and declined his claim made for a stolen classic car.
What happened
Mr M contacted the police and Highway, reporting his car had been stolen. Mr M told 
Highway he had bought the car a few months before, and had been restoring it. He said hed 
driven it that day to do some shopping and when he came back to where he had parked it, it 
had gone. Mr M sent a few photos to Highway but said he couldnt show it the most recent 
restoration work as the phone hed taken some photos on was broken. 
Highway felt Mr M had likely made an exaggerated claim in respect of the value of the car. It 
said it felt this for a number of reasons, one of which was regarding the repair invoice Mr M 
had provided to it to evidence work he had done on the car. It said this didnt seem to be 
genuine. Highway wrote to Mr M, referencing the misrepresentation clause on the policy. It 
said it was cancelling the policy and wouldnt be considering the claim any further.
Mr M complained to us. Our Investigator felt Highway had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. Mr M said it was unfair  if Highway had concerns about the value of his car 
 which hed told it was £18,000, it should have checked it when he took the policy out. Our 
Investigator reviewed the complaint and explained that it was up to Mr M to have provided 
correct evidence when arranging the policy. But also that Highways decision had really 
resulted from the detail Mr M gave it during the claim. Our Investigator felt that, on balance, 
Highway had acted fairly and reasonably. Mr M asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find my view is the same as that recently expressed by our Investigator. 
I can see that Mr M is keen to resolve this claim/complaint and I understand he feels let 
down by Highway. But, having considered everything, I think the strength of the evidence is 
against him.
That is not to say that I think Mr M acted fraudulently to misrepresent his claim to Highway. 
Rather it is my role to consider whether Highway has fairly and reasonably reached the 
decision it has. I think it has done that here.
I know Mr M has provided an explanation as to why he gave the value he did for his car 
when arranging cover. And that he feels Highway should have checked that. I know he also 
has concerns with the value the engineer ascribed to the car during Highways investigation. 
The engineer felt the car was likely in poor condition, rendering its value down to around 
£200. And this was largely what caused Highway to think Mr M had exaggerated the value of 
the car when arranging cover. However, Highway hasnt acted here because Mr M 
misrepresented the position to it when he arranged cover. Here the focus is on the claim.
One of the key issues for Highway with the claim is that Mr M presented an invoice to it to 
show he had been restoring the car. That invoice would help support that the car was in 
good working order, such that it would likely have been driveable, on the day of the loss. It 
would also likely have relevance when assessing the likely value of the car. And as Mr Ms 
car has not been recovered, any settlement Highway might make under the claim would 
likely be based on that (market) value. So the invoice is a key piece of evidence that has the 
potential to materially affect the claim outcome. If a document like this is found to not be 
genuine, it has the potential to taint the whole claim.
Here Mr M has said and maintained that he was given the invoice by the person who worked 
on his car. But Highway felt that was unlikely to be the case. Highway tracked down the 
owners of the garage. They confirmed that they had not completed any work on Mr Ms car. 
I cant see why theyd have any reason to do that if work had been done. And I think Mr Ms 
car is such that it would have been memorable, not least as the alleged repair date was not 
that long before the owners were interviewed by Highway, and there was a fair bit of work 
listed on the document as having been done. I think Highway has reasonably established 
that the invoice presented by Mr M is not a genuine document.  
According to the invoice the work had cost over £5,000, and Mr M said this was his first car 
restoration and he got the engine work done, by a proper mechanic, to allow him to start 
driving the car. However, Mr M couldnt remember the details of the company that had done 
this expensive and important work on his car which hed paid for in cash. He also said he 
hadnt known where they were located when they came and took the car away to do the 
work. I can see why all of this raised concerns for Highway and didnt make it inclined, in 
light of the detail it had obtained from the garages owners, to accept that Mr M had 
unknowingly given it a non-genuine document. 
The policy allows Highway, in this type of situation to decline the claim and cancel the policy. 
That is what Highway has done here, and I think its acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Highway Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman