DRN-4162426
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of the goods he was supplied with under a fixed sum loan 
with Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited.
What happened
Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan with Virgin in February 2022 to finance the purchase of a 
mobile phone and wireless earphones. It seems that in December 2022 Mr M had cause to 
take the earphones to one of the manufacturers retail shops, due to a fault. At this point he 
was told that the earphones had already been registered to someone else sometime before 
they were provided to him, so he raised a complaint with Virgin on the basis that hed been 
supplied with used, rather than new, goods.
In response, Virgin said it had spoken to the store Mr M visited which said it had replaced 
the earphones, but also that the set Mr M had been provided were previously registered in 
June 2021, prior to being supplied to Mr M. However, Virgin also said it had spoken to the 
manufacturer directly and it was unable to supply further information about the registration 
date of the earphones, now that theyd been replaced and the registration date had changed. 
Whist Virgin didnt think it had enough evidence to suggest Mr M had been supplied with a 
used item  and it noted that Mr M hadnt previously mentioned any issues about the quality 
of the items when he received them  it credited one of his accounts with it with £150 as a 
gesture of goodwill. It didnt think it needed to do anything further to put things right.
Mr M disagreed and so, referred a complaint to this service. In the meantime Mr M 
completed a Direct Debit indemnity claim to recover all of the payments hed made to his 
agreement. Consequently, Mr Ms account fell into arrears and it was terminated by Virgin. 
In referring his complaint to this service, Mr M asked for his agreement to be cancelled, any 
sums paid to be refunded and adverse information relating to the agreement to be removed 
from his credit file. He also said that Virgin had failed to add a flag to his account to 
represent that he was vulnerable, and that the situation had a detrimental impact on him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that evidence about whether Mr M 
had been supplied with used goods was somewhat contradictory, but in any case, even if we 
had sufficient evidence to demonstrate that  which they didnt think we did  it wouldnt be 
fair to cancel the agreement or refund any payments made. Our investigator said that as the 
earphones had been replaced, and Mr M had been paid £150 to one of his accounts with 
Virgin  which was more than we wouldve recommended had Virgin not already paid that 
sum  that it wouldnt be fair to ask Virgin to do anymore. Our investigator said that as they 
werent persuaded Virgin had done anything wrong, and because Mr M had completed an 
indemnity claim, Virgin had acted fairly in terminating the agreement. 
Mr M disagreed. He said that he believed the evidence showed that used goods had been 
supplied to him, so Virgin had not complied with the agreement nor the law. 
Our investigator responded to say that he considered Virgin had taken appropriate steps to 
resolve the matter. He also pointed out that Mr Ms agreement didnt say that hed be entitled 
to cancel the agreement and have payments refunded in the event that he has issued with 
the quality of goods supplied. 
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms complaint is about the quality of earphones acquired using a fixed sum loan 
agreement. Thats a regulated agreement, and one which this service has the power to 
consider a complaint about.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. In practice that 
means if Mr M has a claim against the supplier for misrepresentation or breach of contract, 
he also has a like claim against the finance provider. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant here. It says, in summary, that any 
goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality  defined as whether they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality also refers 
to the durability of the goods. 
In the context of Mr Ms complaint, I need to determine whether theres been a breach of 
contract on the grounds that he was supplied with used goods, rather than new ones. I can 
also decide whether those goods were likely of unsatisfactory quality.
At the outset I think all parties accept that under Mr Ms agreement he was meant to be 
supplied with a brand new mobile phone as well as earphones. Mr M hasnt raised any 
issues about the mobile phone, hes simply asserted that the earphones supplied to him had 
been previously used. Nonetheless, its important to note that under Mr Ms agreement he 
was required to repay a total of £1,368 over 36 months, interest free, on the basis that he 
was supplied with both a mobile phone and earphones.
Like our investigator, I think theres some ambiguity about the condition of the earphones    
Mr M was supplied. I think Virgins made a reasonable point in asserting that Mr M didnt 
raise any issue about the goods being used until some ten months after their provision. I 
think likely that Mr M wouldve been reasonably aware if the goods supplied had been 
second hand or used. Additionally, Ive seen correspondence between Virgin and the 
manufacturer, and it did not provide any specific details about the goods other than to say 
that theyd been registered in February 2022.
Mr M on the other hand has provided some persuasive evidence to show that the goods had 
previously been registered  hes provided a report from the retail shop he visited to say that 
the registration date had been changed, and that shop also confirmed that was the case with 
Virgin. 
That being said, even if Im reasonably satisfied that the goods had been registered to 
someone else prior to being provided to Mr M, I dont think that necessarily means theyd 
been used. It could be the case, for example, that the goods had been supplied to someone 
else and returned still in new condition, having been registered. Theres also the possibility that there couldve been a mistake with the registration of a product with a similar serial 
number. I cant say for sure, because I havent been provided with sufficient evidence from 
either party to reasonably conclude whats happened here. In any case, I dont think that it 
matters now, and Ill explain why. 
As above, I cant say for sure whats happened here, but Im not persuaded, on balance, that 
the goods supplied to Mr M were previously used. I think that if that had been the case, he 
likely wouldve noticed it before ten months into the agreement. I also havent seen any 
specific evidence from the manufacture to confirm thats what happened, as I wouldve 
reasonably expected if it had been the case. So, I dont think that Virgin had an obligation to 
put things right for Mr M. 
For the avoidance of doubt, even if we had been able to establish that had Mr M had been 
supplied with used goods, I likely wouldve recommended that Virgin now supply Mr M with 
the goods specified under the contract. I understand that the earphones (although not the 
associated charging case) were replaced by the retail shop Mr M visited. So, whilst I 
appreciate its likely of little consolation to Mr M, I think that hes broadly in the position he 
ought to be in. Like our investigator, I think that Virgin has done more than I wouldve 
required it to by crediting one of Mr Ms accounts with £150 compensation.
Mr Ms asked this service to require Virgin to remove incorrect information supplied to credit 
reference agencies about the agreement. He hasnt been specific about why he believes the 
information its recorded is inaccurate, it doesnt seem he raised that issue with Virgin in the 
context of this complaint, and it wasnt covered in Virgins response to the complaint. So, 
should Mr M wish to dispute the accuracy of the information that Virgin has recorded, he 
might be able to do so separately.
That being said, its worth pointing out that Virgin has an obligation to record accurate 
information with credit reference agencies about the agreement. Ive seen evidence that Mr 
M chose to do a Direct Debit indemnity at the end of January 2023 because of his dispute 
about the goods provided to him. This immediately put the agreement significantly in arrears, 
and Virgin  reasonably in my view  sent Mr M a default notice on 31 January 2023. It 
asked him to make up £418 worth of arrears by 18 February 2023. 
Mr M didnt do this, and the agreement was then terminated on 26 March 2023. Taking into 
account the level of arrears as a result of the indemnity claim, and that the agreement didnt 
say that Mr M neednt pay or was entitled to a refund in the event of a dispute about the 
goods (outside of his rights under Section 75), I think it was fair for Virgin to have terminated 
the agreement. And it follows that I think itd be fair for Virgin to have recorded those events 
with credit reference agencies. That being said, and as above, should Mr M dispute the 
accuracy of whats been recorded, he might be able to raise this separately.
Lastly, I acknowledge the point Mr M has made about Virgin failing to add a flag to his 
account to represent that he was vulnerable. This is another point that wasnt covered in 
Virgins response to Mr Ms complaint, so again I ought not to make a finding on it in this 
decision. I can, however, consider whether Virgin treated Mr M fairly in the specific context of 
this complaint, and all things taken into account, I dont think that Mr M was treated unfairly 
by Virgin.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman