DRN-4237689
The complaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc provided poor service when she was trying to 
recover funds sent to an incorrect account.
What happened
In June 2022, Mrs D used her HSBC banking app to request a balance transfer from her 
HSBC credit card to another credit card she holds with a different lender. HSBC accepted 
this request, but by July 2022 the funds hadnt appeared in her other account.
Mrs D subsequently realised shed entered the wrong account details into the app, resulting 
in a payment of almost £5,000 being sent to an incorrect recipient. She asked HSBC to 
contact the recipient bank urgently to recover the payment.
HSBC didnt submit the recall request until August 2022. And when it didnt receive a 
response from the recipient bank, it closed the case as non recovery in September 2022. It 
later transpired that the recipient bank had contacted its account holder, but they didnt 
respond and later closed their account.
Mrs D complained that the delay in HSBC taking action significantly reduced her chances of 
recovering the money. HSBC acknowledges that its service fell short of what she could 
reasonably expect, and it paid £150 compensation into Mrs Ds account. But Mrs D didnt 
think this went far enough to put things right, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator agreed that HSBC shouldve actioned the recall request sooner and Mrs D 
shouldve received accurate updates on the status of the request throughout  which didnt 
happen. But she was satisfied the compensation paid was in line with what wed expect, and 
she didnt think HSBC needed to do more. 
As Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mrs D made and authorised the balance transfer request to move 
approximately £5,000 from her HSBC credit card. I appreciate Mrs D made a mistake when 
inputting the recipient accounts details, but this isnt something I can fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for as it was acting on her instructions.
Mrs D says HSBCs slow reaction reduced the chances of her money being recovered. But I 
dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
HSBC werent notified of Mrs Ds mistake until over three weeks after the payment had been 
made. Its accepted that HSBC caused a further delay of four weeks before submitting the 
recall request to the recipient bank. But when it did, it wasnt able to recover the funds as the 
recipient didnt cooperate and return them. 
Im persuaded that had the recall request been submitted in July 2022, when it shouldve 
been, the outcome wouldve been the same. I say this because in order to recover the funds, 
HSBC and the recipient bank wouldve always required the cooperation of the recipient of 
the funds. And I dont think the recipient wouldve agreed to return the money after three 
weeks, when they werent prepared to after seven weeks. I think the recipients answer was 
always going to be that they wouldnt return the money.
But HSBCs service did fall short of what Id expect, and Ive no doubt these delays and lack 
of updates wouldve caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs D at a time when she was 
already worried that shed lost a lot of money. So its right that compensation is paid and Im 
satisfied £150 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint based on the length of the delays 
and the impact this wouldve had. 
As HSBC has paid compensation to that effect, I dont find that it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman