DRN-4035986
The complaint
Ms H complains that The Private Office Limited, trading as The Private Office (TPO) has 
received ongoing payments from product providers Ms H holds investments with. Ms H says 
these payments have been made without her knowledge or authority. 
Ms H also complains that when she contacted TPO to query why its name appeared in 
information she had received from her product providers it was very slow to respond to her.
In order to put matters right Ms H wants TPO to refund the ongoing payments it has received 
from product providers in respect of her investments, notify the relevant product providers 
that it is not the servicing agent for these investments and compensate her for the time she 
has spent dealing with this matter.
What happened
I understand that Ms H is concerned about the ongoing payments TPO has received in 
respect of three investments she holds:
 Jupiter ISA
 BMO Global (formerly F&G) ISA
 ReAssure (formerly L&G) investment bond
From the information I have seen it appears that the BMO Global (formerly F&G) ISA was 
arranged in April 2006 and the Jupiter ISA was arranged in September 2006 by Ms Hs 
financial adviser at PGR Financial Planning.
The ReAssure (formerly L&G) investment bond was arranged for Ms Hs mother by the 
same financial adviser in late 2005. 
In 2017 PGR Financial Planning was acquired by TPO. I understand that in early 2018 all 
PGR clients were notified that in April 2018, PGR was merging with TPO. The letter sent to 
clients of PGR at the time set out:
The charging arrangements and level of service you currently receive in accordance with 
your existing client agreement with either The Partners at The Private Office LLP or PGR, 
will be unaffected by the transition to The Private Office Limited, but please be advised that 
from 3 April 2018, your agreement will be with The Private Office Limited.
Unless we hear from you to the contrary, within 30 days of the date of this letter, we will 
assume you have consented to this transfer.
From 3 April 2018 all ongoing payments from product providers in respect of investments 
arranged by PGR were made to TPO.
In January 2019, TPO wrote to Ms H. It said it wanted to clarify the service it was able to 
offer going forward. In the letter it confirmed that TPO was recorded as the servicing agent 
for Ms Hs ISAs. The letter noted: 
As we may continue to receive some ongoing income from your existing policy(ies) this will 
be taken into consideration in determining our fee charge for any work to be undertaken.
However, the letter did not set out how much ongoing income TPO was receiving in 
connection with Ms Hs ISAs. (The letter only referred to Ms Hs ISAs because at that time 
the investment bond was not held by Ms H.) 
TPO confirmed that since January 2019, it had received ongoing payments of £74.73 in 
respect of Ms Hs Jupiter ISA and that it had not received any ongoing payments in respect 
of her BMO Global ISA.
TPO also subsequently confirmed that it had received ongoing payments in respect of the 
ReAssure/L&G investment bond Ms H now holds. It noted that Ms H had taken over 
ownership of the bond after her mother passed away. Ms H has explained that her former 
financial adviser helped to arrange for two bonds to be transferred from Ms Hs mothers 
estate to Ms H and another family member. I understand that TPO were not involved in the 
transfer of ownership.
TPO said it was entitled to continue to receive ongoing payments on this bond as it was the 
servicing agent for the bond. It said that as ownership had passed from Ms Hs mother to Ms 
H the investment had effectively continued without change.
Ms H queried why TPO was named on information she had received from the providers of 
her investments. It appears there were a number of delays in TPO responding to Ms H and, 
unhappy with the lack of a response, Ms H complained to TPO in late 2021.  
TPO did not uphold Ms Hs complaint. It said it was satisfied that it was entitled to receive 
ongoing payments in relation to her investments (it confirmed that it wasnt receiving 
payments in relation to Ms Hs BMO Global ISA).
It did however, offer to pay Ms H £100 for its failure to respond promptly when she contacted 
it to query why TPO was referred to in information she had received from her product 
providers. It also said it would arrange to be removed as the servicing agent for Ms Hs 
investments  and would therefore no longer receive any ongoing payments from Ms Hs 
product providers.
Ms H was not satisfied with TPOs response and referred her complaint to this service.
Having considered Ms Hs complaint our investigator said he felt the £100 TPO had offered 
to pay Ms H for the delays in responding to her queries was fair and reasonable and he 
didnt think it needed to do any more to put matters right.
He said that based on the information available, he was satisfied that TPO had told Ms H 
that it may continue to receive ongoing income from the ISAs that had been arranged for her 
by her adviser at PGR in 2006.
With regard to the investment bond, the investigator noted that ReAssure had confirmed that 
it wasnt paying any ongoing adviser fees to TPO in respect of this bond but was paying 
ongoing trail commission. He said it appeared this had been arranged at the outset when Ms 
Hs mother took out the bond in 2005.
He also noted that TPO was no longer recorded as the servicing agent for Ms Hs 
investments and would therefore not be receiving any further payments from her product 
providers in respect of these investments.
Ms H did not accept our investigators view. She provided a detailed submission setting out 
her concerns. In summary Ms H said:- She did not receive the letter TPO sent in January 2019, notifying her that it may 
receive ongoing fees in relation to her ISA investments.
- In August 2019, the adviser who arranged her ISAs in 2006 assisted Ms H and her 
sister to take ownership of two bonds that had been held by Ms Hs late mother. (I 
understand that the adviser left TPO in late 2018 and was not authorised to give 
investment advice at this time.)  Ms H said the two bonds are divided between my 
sister and I. There is no mention of on-going fees or a commission or TPOs 
involvement. No contact from TPO.
- In mid-2020 Ms H said she noticed that TPO was listed as agent on my ISA 
statements from Jupiter & BMO. Ms H says she contacted TPO to query this as she 
said it was not her agent and she had not had any contact with it since 2018.
- In mid-2021 Ms H says she contacted TPO again as she noticed it was also listed as 
the agent for the ReAssure (previously L&G) bond she had taken ownership of. Ms H 
says TPO said it had no record of having received any ongoing payments from L&G 
in respect of this bond. 
- In a letter dated 9 June 2021, TPO said that the advisor charges will be returned 
to my ReAssure policy once TPO have all the data.
- Ms H then contacted ReAssure and it confirmed it was making ongoing payments to 
TPO in respect of this investment bond. I understand that Ms H forwarded this 
information to TPO.
- After chasing TPO several times Ms H received a response dated 8 November 2021. 
The letter explained that when PGR merged with TPO, TPO took over the servicing 
rights for PGRs clients. It said any adviser charges it had received in respect of Ms 
Hs ISAs and investment bond would be returned to the relevant product providers.
- The final response letter Ms H received from TPO in January 2022, did not refer to 
the investment bond, only her ISAs.
- When Ms H queried this, TPO responded to say that it had not received any adviser 
fees in respect of the investment bond but had received trail commission. TPO said 
that under FCA rules it was entitled to retain this trail commission.
- Ms H noted our investigator had said that the existing client agreement on 
charging arrangements and level of service would be unaffected by the transfer 
(from PGR to TPO) But Ms H said, My mothers services from [name of adviser] at 
PGR included an annual report, face-to-face meetings and advice...In effect, TPO 
stripped the services from the original arrangement but continued to take the 
commission  without my knowledge. TPO could not produce the document they 
purported I had signed and finally admitted that it did not exist. The letter of 18/1/19, 
even if I had ever received it, did not include the two bonds
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Ms Hs position, and I understand why she is concerned about the 
issues she has raised.
I asked our investigator to provide Ms H with a copy of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) factsheet for consumers on trail commission. This factsheet sets out that if a consumer received financial advice or used an intermediary to buy an investment product 
before 31 December 2012, they may be paying trail commission. It explains that:
Trail commission was an annual fee paid to financial advisers by their customers over the 
lifetime of products. These products included:
pensions
with-profits bonds
unit trusts
It was also paid to intermediaries, such as discount brokers and fund platforms, that 
recommended or enabled the purchase of funds or other investments.
Trail commission was a percentage fee, typically 0.5%, taken out of the sum of your 
investment each year. 
It was usually included in the annual management charge, so it was not always clear that 
you were paying it or how much it cost you.
The payments may have been intended to cover an ongoing service. However, it was often 
paid to advisers each year without them reviewing customers investments or providing 
further advice
a financial adviser or intermediary can continue to receive trail commission for advice on 
investments that you bought before 31 December 2012.
In determining Ms Hs complaint I am required to take account of relevant regulations that 
apply. I must therefore take into consideration that TPO was permitted to receive ongoing 
payments from product providers for investments it arranged before 31 December 2012.
However, if there is clear evidence that these payments were intended to fund the cost of 
ongoing advice or reviews, for example if this was set out in the suitability report issued to 
the customer at the time the advice was given, this service can in some circumstances 
consider whether the customer has received the service they expected. 
I have also carefully considered whether TPO was entitled to receive any ongoing payments 
from product providers for investments that were arranged by PGR Financial Planning 
before it merged with TPO.
Was TPO entitled to receive ongoing payments in relation to investments arranged by PGR?
As I set out above, I understand that in 2017, PGR Financial Planning was acquired by TPO. 
In early 2018 all PGR clients were notified that in April 2018, PGR was merging with TPO. 
The letter sent to clients of PGR at that time set out:
The charging arrangements and level of service you currently receive in accordance with 
your existing client agreement with either The Partners at The Private Office LLP or PGR, 
will be unaffected by the transition to The Private Office Limited, but please be advised that 
from 3 April 2018, your agreement will be with The Private Office Limited.
Unless we hear from you to the contrary, within 30 days of the date of this letter, we will 
assume you have consented to this transfer.From 3 April 2018 all ongoing payments from product providers in respect of investments 
arranged by PGR were made to TPO.
I understand that the adviser at PGR who arranged Ms Hs ISA investments in 2006 worked 
for TPO until late 2018. As TPO notified Ms H, in writing that from 3 April 2018 it would 
continue to provide the level of service she had previously received and that the charging 
arrangements would continue, I cannot reasonably find that Ms H was not informed that any 
ongoing payments in respect of her ISAs would be paid to TPO from April 2018.
I do appreciate however that the arrangements regarding ongoing payments for investments 
arranged before 31 December 2012, can be difficult for consumers to understand. But as the 
FCA, the industry regulator permits businesses to continue receiving ongoing payments, 
known as trail commission, without a requirement to provide an ongoing service in return 
(unless, for example, there was an agreement to provide an ongoing service), I cannot 
reasonably find that TPO acted incorrectly when it accepted the payments that had been put 
in place when Ms H arranged her ISAs in 2006.
 ISA investments
TPO has confirmed that since January 2019, it has received ongoing payments of £74.73 in 
respect of Ms Hs Jupiter ISA. It says it has not received any ongoing payments in respect of 
her BMO Global ISA.
Ms H has provided this service with a copy of the letter she received from her adviser in 
August 2006, in connection with arranging her BMO Global ISA, but was unable to provide 
anything in relation to the advice she received to take out the Jupiter ISA. However, Ms H 
has confirmed that she was not provided with ongoing advice in relation to her ISAs and 
there was no agreement with PGR Financial Planning to provide ongoing advice. As this is 
the case, I cannot reasonably find that TPO acted incorrectly when it accepted ongoing 
payments in relation to Ms Hs Jupiter ISA, despite not providing any ongoing advice or 
reviews of this investment.
I am mindful that Ms H says she did not receive the letter TPO sent in January 2019 
notifying her that it may receive ongoing fees in relation to her ISA investments. It is 
unfortunate that Ms H did not receive this letter, but as I am satisfied that the letter was 
correctly addressed, I cant reasonably hold TPO responsible for any failings by the postal 
service. I appreciate it would have been helpful if TPO had confirmed receipt of this letter, 
but there was no requirement on it to do so.
Investment Bond
Ms H has explained that in August 2019, the adviser who arranged her ISAs in 2006 
assisted Ms H and her sister in taking ownership of bonds that were held by Ms Hs late 
mother. (I understand that the adviser left TPO in late 2018 and was not authorised to give 
investment advice at this time.)  Ms H said the two bonds are divided between my sister 
and I. There is no mention of on-going fees or a commission or TPOs involvement. No 
contact from TPO.
I cant reasonably hold TPO responsible for any information that was or wasnt provided by 
its former adviser. At the time the investment bond was assigned to Ms H the FCAs register 
shows that the person Ms H says helped with the change of ownership for the bonds was no 
longer working for TPO and was not authorised to give investment advice.I appreciate that Ms H feels TPO should have contacted her once it became aware that the 
investment bond had been assigned to her, but I am not aware of any requirement on TPO 
to have done so.
It is not in dispute that TPO was receiving ongoing payments in respect of this investment 
bond. In a letter to Ms H dated 9 June 2021, TPO said that any adviser charges would be 
returned to Ms Hs ReAssure bond once TPO had all the necessary information.
TPO then contacted Ms H to say that it had not received any adviser fees in respect of the 
investment bond but had received trail commission. TPO said that under FCA rules it was 
entitled to retain this trail commission.
Ms H said she understood that the ongoing payments to TPO in respect of the investment 
bond were, at least in part, to cover the cost of on-going advice. Ms H said:
My mothers services from [name of adviser] at PGR included an annual report, face-to-face 
meetings and advice...In effect, TPO stripped the services from the original arrangement 
but continued to take the commission  without my knowledge. TPO could not produce the 
document they purported I had signed and finally admitted that it did not exist. The letter of 
18/1/19, even if I had ever received it, did not include the two bonds.
I am satisfied that the letter TPO sent to Ms H in January 2019, (I note Ms H says she did 
not receive this letter) should not have included any information on the investment bonds. As 
Ms H has explained to this service, the bonds were not assigned to her or her sister until 
August 2019. There was therefore no reason for TPO to have included any information 
about investments that were held by Ms Hs mother in the letter it sent to Ms H in January 
2019.
I have very carefully considered Ms Hs claim that her  mothers services from [name of 
adviser] at PGR included an annual report, face-to-face meetings and advice...In effect, TPO 
stripped the services from the original arrangement but continued to take the commission  
without my knowledge.
Unfortunately, neither Ms H nor TPO has been able to provide a copy of the client 
agreement Ms Hs mother had with PGR. TPO has instead provided a copy of a letter it sent 
to Ms Hs mother dated 7 January 2019, following a meeting with Ms Hs mother to discuss 
the services it could provide to her. I am mindful that Ms Hs mother very sadly passed away 
shortly after this letter was sent.
The letter set out the various advice and planning options open to Ms Hs mother and the 
costs involved for each option. There is nothing in the letter that suggests Ms Hs mother had 
an agreement with TPO to receive ongoing financial advice.  In the absence of anything to 
show that the ongoing payment TPO was receiving in respect of the Reassure investment 
bond was to provide ongoing advice I cannot safely find that there was an agreement to 
provide an annual report, face-to-face meetings and advice.
I am mindful that when Ms H queried the ongoing payments TPO was receiving in respect of 
the Reassure investment bond in mid-2021, it said it would be willing to refund any adviser 
fees it had received back to her policy. As there is nothing to show, or suggest that the 
ongoing payments were to provide ongoing advice and reports TPO told this service:
Please note that the payments received were commission payments, established at outset 
and as part of the policy terms, and not an agreed advisor fee or payment for the provision of 
advice and/or service.This, we contend, is an important distinction in respect of Ms H's referral as it evidences that 
TPO have not taken any fees or advisor charges without agreement or consent.
Ms H also states that 'when the bonds were passed to me no mention was made of TPO.'
This aspect is something we would respectfully refer to ReAssure as to what their processes 
would or should be with regards to this but what is undoubtedly clear is that TPO were the 
stated servicing agent in respect of the policy and, therefore, able to receive any commission 
payments.
I do understand that Ms H feels this is unfair, but as I explained above, TPO is permitted by 
the industry regulator to receive trail commission. As this is the case, I cannot require TPO to 
refund the trail commission it received in respect of the investment bond after Ms H took 
ownership of it when there is nothing to show that there was an agreement in place to 
provide ongoing advice and servicing, in return for the ongoing payments TPO was 
receiving.
I note that Ms H told this service that TPO said she had signed an agreement with it. TPO 
has confirmed that it does not have a signed agreement with Ms H and was not required to 
obtain her signed agreement. From the information that has been provided to this service I 
am satisfied that when TPO took over as the servicing agent from Ms Hs previous financial 
adviser (PGR) it notified Ms H, in writing. It also asked Ms H to notify it within 30 days if Ms 
H did not consent. As Ms H did not respond, and the terms of the agreement she had with 
PGR did not change when it merged with TPO, I am satisfied that it did not need to obtain 
her signed agreement.
Communication with Ms H
In her submissions to this service Ms H has referred to regulatory requirements, in particular 
in relation to treating customers fairly and ensuring that any communication with customers 
is clear, fair, and not misleading. I am sympathetic to the points Ms H has made and I 
appreciate why she feels TPO should have contacted her to explain:
1. TPOs involvement in the Bonds
2. The character of the Bonds and what TPOs servicing arrangements were
3. The commission TPO were taking
4. The FSA rules applying to investments bought before and after 2012 which, in effect, 
banned this kind of commission/payment
5. That it might not be in my interest to keep the Bonds given that the commission, which is 
substantial, did not require an agreed level of service
I do understand why Ms H feels TPO should have contacted her, but there was no 
requirement on TPO to do so. As this is the case, I cannot find that it acted incorrectly when 
it didnt proactively contact Ms H about the investment bonds.
I am mindful that when Ms H contacted TPO to query why its name appeared in information 
she had received from her product providers it was slow to respond. TPO has offered to pay 
Ms H £100 for its failure to respond promptly. I think this offer is fair and I leave it to Ms H to 
decide if she now wishes to accept this offer.
I do understand that this is not the decision Ms H was hoping for. However, I hope that this 
decision together with the FCA factsheet on trail commission (a copy of this has already 
been provided to Ms H) will provide Ms H with clarity that TPO was permitted to continue to 
receive trail commission on investments sold before 31 December 2012. TPO has confirmed to Ms H that it has now stopped taking trail commission in respect of 
these investments.
I note that Ms H has also asked this service to require TPO to send an annual statement of 
commission earned to all its clients. This services role is to determine individual complaints, 
we dont have the power to order businesses to change their processes or take disciplinary 
action. That is the role of the industry regulator, the FCA. If Ms H wishes to pursue her wider 
concerns regarding trail commission, she may wish to contact the FCA.
 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. I 
simply leave it to Ms H to decide if she now wishes to accept the £100 The Private Office 
Limited has offered to pay her for the delay in responding to her queries.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman