DRN-1144352
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited won't replace drainage pipes following a 
blockage.  
What happened
Mr L has plumbing and drainage cover through British Gas. He had cause to claim under the 
policy in April 2019 when a drain was blocked. Dyno-Rod came out and inspected the drains 
and discovered roots and growth had come through the existing clay pipe which had caused 
a blockage. It also found joints had been displaced and suspected there were leaks but 
couldn't test due to limited access. Dyno-Rod recommended Mr L upgrade his existing pipes 
to prevent further root ingress. The flow was later restored.
Mr L wasn't happy to receive the quote as he believed replacing his pipes was covered 
under the terms of the policy. And so he complained. British Gas didn't uphold Mr L's 
complaint as it said the pipe was part of the fabric of the house and wasn't a component 
'part'. It said it will come out for future repairs but not to the pipe unless upgrade work was 
carried out. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded British Gas had declined the claim 
unfairly. She found there was no exclusion within the policy that related to the 'fabric of the 
house' and that under the terms Mr L was entitled to a replacement pipe if it couldn't be 
repaired. So she asked British Gas to replace the pipe with like for like pipe - clay pipe. 
British Gas has said it has restored the flow of the pipe which is what's required under the 
terms of the policy. It said any repair would be classed as betterment/modification to the 
current drainage system. It also referred to its exclusions relating to pre-existing faults. It 
said under the terms of the policy it would only cover a repair to any drain if there is recent 
history of repeat blockages or flow cannot be restored.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have decided to uphold this complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Mr L has cover for his drains under his British Gas HomeCare policy. The policy covers:
Repairing and unblocking drains to restore flow
Repairing leaks to internal waste water pipes and external soil and vent pipes. 
A replacement of parts we can't repair. 
Accidental damage.
 
Words in bold are given the definition provided for in the policy. Repair(s)/repairing/repaired 
is defined as:to fix your boiler, appliance or system following an individual fault or breakdown but 
not repairs that are purely cosmetic or related to software which doesn't stop the main 
function of your boiler, appliance or system from working or make it unsafe. 
Replacement/replace/replacing is defined as:
... Where we replace your boiler, appliances (not those covered under Kitchen 
Appliance Cover) or parts with a British Gas approved standard alternative. Well 
provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily an identical make 
and model or type of fitting. ... If we're unable to provide a boiler, appliance or part with 
similar functionality we'll install a new and unused like for like alternative that you 
provide, but we'll only accept responsibility for our workmanship. 
 Drains is defined as:
the system of waste water pipes on your property. 
I accept that when Mr L initially called British Gas it was because he had a blocked pipe. I 
also accept that British Gas has restored flow.  But I cannot ignore the details of Dyno-Rod's 
report which highlights other defects in the pipe work - namely medium and large displaced 
joints. It also suspected the pipe was leaking in a number of locations. In addition to 
unblocking drains, Mr L's policy covers him for repairing drains, including leaks. 
Under the terms of the policy Mr L is entitled to have his drain repaired; and if it can't be 
repaired replaced on a like for like basis. I therefore agree with the investigator that British 
Gas need to repair the defects (and possible leaks) identified with the pipe. And if it can't 
repair the pipe it needs to be replaced with like for like pipe - that is clay pipe. 
Dyno-Rod originally quoted for installing a new poly liner to the pipe work to prevent future 
root ingress. I agree that this would be classed as an upgrade to Mr L's existing pipe work 
and so isn't something he's entitled to under the terms of the policy (this is expressly 
excluded in the General exclusions section). 
Like the investigator, I can't find anything within the policy terms which refers to the 'fabric of 
the house' or similar. And nor can I find anything which requires recent history of repeat 
blockages. British Gas hasn't clearly explained what it was seeking to rely on when declining 
to repair Mr L's pipe. Latterly it has referred to the General Exclusion covering pre-existing 
faults. But it hasn't said what part of this exclusion clause (and it contains a number of 
different reasons) is relevant or shown how any of the exclusions apply to Mr L's 
circumstances. I therefore find it has treated Mr L unfairly.  
Putting things right
I find that Mr L has a valid claim under the terms of the policy. I require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to:
repair the defects and any leaks in the pipe; or
if the pipe isn't repairable, it needs to replace the pipe with like for like pipe.
 
If, on reflection, Mr L would like the upgraded pipe then British Gas should facilitate that, and 
Mr L will need to pay the difference.
Mr L has been caused inconvenience as a result of this matter as he has had defective pipe 
work for a number of months. And British Gas didn't provide clear explanations for declining to carry out repairs or provide a replacement. I agree with the investigator that British Gas 
should pay Mr L £50 for the inconvenience cased.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
put matters right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman