DRN-2807100
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declining a claim she made on a pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties.
Rather than repeat what is already known to both parties and not generally in dispute, in my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs S that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why below.
This policy is whats called a non-lifetime policy. The terms state, under Your policy 
summary:
A Time Limited policy offers cover from accidents, illnesses and conditions. 
Time Limited policies mean that your pet will be covered for 365 days after 
the condition is first noted by yourself or your vet. This could mean when 
symptoms first arose [bold added for emphasis by ombudsman] or when an 
accident happened. Once these 365 days have elapsed this illness, injury or 
condition will no longer be covered., 
and, under what is covered?
Cover is provided for up to 365 days only from the day the condition is first 
noted by you or your vet.
This is a normal term or restriction in these types of non-lifetime policies. Im also 
satisfied that the policy paperwork made this sufficiently clear. 
Red Sands have ultimately declined this claim because they say Mrs S has tried to 
make the claim more than 365 days after initial symptoms of the condition shes 
trying to claim for occurred. Red Sands referred previously to 16 February 2018 
being the date theyd apply the 365 days of cover from. It seems they now accept this 
was incorrect. 
Vet notes show that in 2019 a vet saw Mrs Ss dog and recorded that he was stiff on 
rear legs and suspect OA elderly. Red Sands say this is the point at which the 
365 days cover started - as symptoms first arose. I consider this fair as, although this 
wasnt a formal diagnosis (as later happened in July 2020), symptoms were evident 
and the condition suspected by the vet.
Mrs S disagrees and has argued in detail that the policy terms arent clear about how 
this policy restriction applies. My interpretation of the policy terms is that the cover for 
a specific condition or illness starts when symptoms first arose. Mrs S, in the 
summary of her complaint has referred to the importance of the meaning of the word 
noted. 
When Ive referred to the policy terms as quoted above, they do state noted, but 
directly below that provide clarity; this could mean when symptoms first arose. I 
consider this a fair meaning and application here. I dont consider that under this 
policy noted means when the condition is formally diagnosed. Although Mrs S 
believes them to be ambiguous, its not within my remit to direct a business to 
change its policy terms.
Mrs S has made the point:
Did our dog show symptoms of arthritis in May 2019? Possibly. It is a 
chronic, degenerative condition so it seems quite likely that it would have 
started at some point prior to July 2020. Is it appropriate to consider the 
condition was noted in May 2019? No, because in May 2019 nobody knew for 
sure whether or not it was arthritis.
Mrs S herself has referred to what the possible symptoms in May 2019 and earlier 
could mean. In particular, in her complaint to Red Sands in December 2020 shes 
said: 
In May 2019 we discussed carpal joint and shoulder pain, along with stiffness 
of his rear legwhilst the vet at the time thought of OA(arthritis) it was 
merely suspected at the time at that particular time there was NO evidence 
that he actually suffered from arthritis although it was at the back of our mind 
that it could be the start of it given his age.
On balance, I disagree that there was no evidence that Mrs Ss dog suffered from 
arthritis in May 2019 given the vets suspected reference to it, the dogs age at that 
time alongside the symptoms as described by both Mrs S and the vets notes. The 
records also show that in July 2020 Mrs S contacted her pets vet and said:
he has developed a limp that doesnt seem to go away..things that have 
progressed over a couple of years but are more and more noticeable. Would 
like a diagnosis/check up for potential arthritis
This supports that the symptoms of the condition developed over time. Its my 
understanding that the relevant condition here will develop and show itself over time 
and not overnight. 
Ive also carefully considered Mrs Ss point about her dog having been symptom free 
for over a year:Then over a year later we returned to the vet for concerns which, whilst 
similar, may not have been the same. It is actually impossible for anyone to 
say whether or not what happened in July 2020 was the continuation of what 
happened in May 2019.
However, the test Im applying here is whats more likely than not, based on the 
evidence. On balance, Im not persuaded - based on what Ive seen, by the 
alternative explanation that the May 2019 symptoms were of an unrelated condition 
or illness. I find it more likely than not the symptoms in May 2019 were early 
symptoms of what later fully presented itself and was formally diagnosed in July 
2020.
Overall, I find that Red Sands have fairly declined this claim as the symptoms first 
arose in May 2019 and thats when the 365 days of cover started. Mrs S has tried to 
make a claim after the 365 days, so it follows that I find Red Sands have fairly 
declined this claim - inline with the policy terms. 
I know Mrs S will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with Red Sands   can do for her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman