DRN-2550927
The complaint
Miss E complains that she wasnt notified when the fixed rate interest period on her 
mortgage came to an end with Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin 
Money).
What happened
In September 2017 Miss E took out a 25 year Mortgage with Virgin Money with a fixed rate 
of two years. The initial rate was 1.47% moving to Virgin Moneys Standard Variable Rate 
(SVR) of 4.54%.
Miss E had now complained to Virgin Money  as she says she wasnt made away of the 
fixed period coming to an end. This resulted in her paying four months mortgage payments 
at the higher rate of 4.54%. 
Virgin Money looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said Miss E was made aware of 
the term when she signed the mortgage paperwork. It went on to say that it sent out three 
reminders and although two were returned undelivered, one was received. It lastly said that 
it had been sending Miss E mortgage statements during the two-year fixed term that made 
her aware of how long the fixed period was and the rate.
Miss E remined unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
In Miss Es complaint to our service, she said the property was boarded up and unoccupied 
during the period Virgin Money sent the reminders, due to electrical work being completed in 
the house. Due to this, Miss E felt it was unfair she paid the higher payments and she should 
be allowed to pay at the previous rate  as she effectively hadnt received any reminders.   
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld, for largely the 
same reasons as the business. Our investigator said at least one of the reminders had been 
received at Miss Es property and she also didnt feel it was fair to hold Virgin Money 
responsible for the fact Miss E had moved out of the house but had not updated Virgin 
Money with a new postal address. Our investigator also found the offer letter was clear in 
detailing how long the fixed rate period was for. 
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me to 
issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information Ive seen from both parties, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
When Miss E agreed to the mortgage offer she signed paperwork to say she was
happy with the rate and the term. This was her chance to decide on the period she wanted
her fixed rate over and in return she was offered an interest rate by the business. Miss E
agreed a fixed rate of 1.47% over a period of two years and its clear from the paperwork. 
So, Im satisfied Miss E was aware of the term at this point. 
Ive also seen the letter sent in September 2019 that reminds Miss E that her fixed rate
term is coming to an end and lists the rates Miss E couldve decided to move to. Virgin 
Money have no record of this letter being returned and as it was addressed to the correct 
property  I find it most likely it was received. I understand Miss E has said that she couldnt 
receive this letter as she wasnt in the property, but she has gone on to tell us that the 
property was only boarded up for a period of a week. So Im unsure how this letter, plus the 
further two letters sent over a three month period wouldnt get to her. Im also satisfied that if 
Miss E planned to leave the postal address for an extended period of time, it was down to 
her to go back to check for post or make arrangements for it to be directed. 
I understand Miss E has said that after two letters being returned to Virgin Money, it 
shouldve used an alternative means to contact her, and Ive thought about this point very 
carefully. Although it must have been frustrating to not receive these reminders, I find Miss E 
had enough information available to her to already be aware of the date the fixed rate came 
to an end. So, I dont find Virgin Money need to compensate Miss E for the fact she moved 
on to the SVR rate. 
Based on the information Ive seen from both parties, I dont agree Virgin Money have done 
anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint. Ultimately, if Miss E wasnt happy 
with her mortgage rate it was up to her to apply for a different one, and Ive seen no 
evidence she did that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman