DRN-4412384
The complaint
Mr H has complained that he was unable to use his credit card provided by NewDay Limited 
trading as Aqua (Aqua), which ultimately led to the account being closed. 
What happened
In March 2023, Aqua wrote to Mr H to say that as he hadnt used his credit card for some 
time, they intended to close the account. The letter explained that if he didnt want this to 
happen, he could use the card before 4 June 2023 to make a purchase, and the account 
would remain open. 
Mr H has told us that he attempted to use the card, but it didnt work. He was presented with 
an error message and asked to contact his card supplier. He raised a complaint with Aqua in 
April 2023, but he didnt receive an answer to his complaint within eight weeks, so he 
brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator here investigated the complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that they could 
see that Mr H had been supplied with a replacement card in 2021, along with details about 
how to activate that card. But the card had never been activated, and this meant it didnt 
work when he tried to use it in 2023. 
When the card didnt work, Mr H hadnt contacted Aquas customer service team but instead 
raised a complaint about it not working. Unfortunately, Aquas complaints team have 
confirmed that this complaint was mis-filed, so they hadnt answered it, meaning the account 
was closed as Mr H had no other contact with Aqua to discuss or resolve things. If this 
hadnt been the case, they might have been able to resolve things with Mr H. But the 
investigator explained that as this was a failing in Aquas complaint handling process, we 
dont have the jurisdiction to make findings about complaint handling. 
The investigator explained that if Mr H had reached out to Aquas customer services team as 
suggested, they may have been able to resolve things with him. But as he hadnt done this, 
the account had gone on to be closed. And how Aqua had handled his complaint wasnt an 
issue that we could make a finding on. So, we couldnt uphold the complaint on that basis.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. He felt that the 
investigator hadnt quite understood his complaint and said that due to an issue with a third 
party complaints portal he used, we hadnt considered all his evidence. He also said that 
Aqua didnt respond to his emails. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Aqua have a process for security whereby customers need to activate a new card when its 
sent to them. In considering this complaint, I am thinking about whether Mr H was told he 
needed to activate the card when he was sent it, and also whether the methods of activating 
it are reasonable and fair to all consumers.
Alongside this, I am considering how Aqua treated Mr H in 2023 when he began to have 
problems. When he found he couldnt use the card, was he treated fairly in his attempts to 
resolve things.   
Ive thought about Mr Hs comments about difficulties in emailing Aqua, as well as problems 
he suggests are happening between the third party complaint portal he uses and our service. 
But I havent seen any evidence of any general communications being ignored by Aqua, and 
Mr H has had the opportunity to send us any additional evidence he feels hadnt been 
considered. 
Ive also considered Aquas processes for activating a new card. The letters they send 
confirm they will have emailed him the details to allow him to set an account up and activate 
the card and run his account online. This is alongside the phone numbers they gave him 
when they told him the card hadnt yet been activated in March 2023. I think this is fair and 
gives customers a fair range of options by which to activate their card. I havent seen any 
reason why Mr H couldnt have done this. 
However, I do empathise with Mr H here. Mr H has tried to contact Aqua in 2023 when 
having problems, but hes done this by raising it as a complaint through the third party 
complaint portal, rather than trying to contact the customer service team at Aqua directly to 
ask why it wasnt working. If he had reached out to them, they could have arranged with him 
to activate the card. 
Unfortunately, because that complaint has been missed by Aqua, by the time this has come 
to light, and hes brought the complaint to our service, the card account had already passed 
the deadline to be used or closed and was closed. Even if Aqua had picked the complaint up 
and answered it, with an eight week timescale in which to do this, it might always have been 
too late to resolve things. As it is, the complaint was unfortunately mis-filed and not 
answered. 
But as the investigator here explained, thats a potential failing in Aquas complaint handling 
process, which isnt something we have the jurisdiction to make a finding about. From a 
general customer service perspective, Im satisfied that had Mr H reached out to Aqua 
customer services, to ask how to resolve the issue, theyd have been able to get things 
sorted with Mr H. And if I consider whats reasonable here, I wouldnt expect a customer, 
when faced with a fairly urgent issue that needs resolving with a business, to raise a 
complaint about it and then wait eight weeks for an answer.
Mr H is comfortable using the third party complaints portal to raise issues with businesses or 
refer them to our service. But in these circumstances, I also have to consider whether thats 
a fair way to communicate with a business about a time sensitive issue. And if this process 
falls down for some reason, whether that means the business have fallen below the 
standards required of them. 
This is an unfortunate set of circumstances. Im sure that if the complaint had been 
registered correctly, Mr H could potentially have had the complaint looked at, and it could 
have been referred to Aqua customer services in time to remedy things and register the 
card. But as has been said already, I cant make a finding that says that a failing in the 
complaint handling process means this complaint should be upheld. We dont have the 
jurisdiction to make findings about a businesss complaint handling, and thats the only potential failing here.
Equally, I dont think that would be fair to Aqua. Mr H has been provided with information to 
allow him to register the card online or by phone. He hasnt done either, instead choosing to 
raise an online complaint to try to get this resolved. That complaint was raised at a time 
when it was approaching the deadline to register the card, so I dont think it would be fair to 
say that any delay in answering that complaint means the complaint itself should be upheld. 
Mr H had approximately two years to register the card, and at least two reminders during 
that time, but didnt do this. Hes told us that the account being closed caused him problems 
as he wanted to use the card for spending, but it had been closed. But as I dont feel Aqua 
have done anything wrong here, I cant hold them responsible for any knock on effects. I 
empathise if Mr H had wanted to use the card for spending, but he needed to have 
registered the card to allow this, and he didnt do that. 
Mr H asked us to get Aqua to re-open the account for him, but as they havent done anything 
wrong here, I wont be asking Aqua to do anything further. If he wants a credit card account 
with them, he will need to re-apply for a new card.       
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman