DRN-3821248
The complaint
Mr S has complained Santander UK plc wont refund money he lost from his account after 
being the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
In early 2021 Mr S searched online for investment opportunities. He filled in an online form 
and got a call from someone purporting to work for a company investing in stocks and 
shares (who Ill call A). Mr S told A he didnt have anything to invest until he was able to 
access his pension funds. A told him they could set up a dummy account for him with a fake 
amount of $1,000. This happened and he could then see how his money would behave and 
what earnings he could accrue. Mr S found As approach convincing.
In June Mr S received over £18,000 from his financial advisor as the first income hed drawn 
down from his pension for home improvement work. He agreed to invest £5,000 with A. Mr S 
attempted to make this international payment online, but this was blocked by Santander. 
Mr S discussed the transaction in a couple of calls and assured Santander he was making 
the transfer for a genuine investment opportunity.
Following this transaction, Mr S was given access to his online account with A and could see 
his investment increasing in value. Mr S wanted to ensure his investment was valid and that 
payments would operate both ways between himself and A. To show good faith A paid $500 
to Mr Ss Santander account. He received £354.74 on 14 July.
In early July Mr S paid a further £25,000 to A. Like the first payment, this amount was made 
to a foreign-based account which wasnt in As name. Santander held up the payment 
because it had fraud concerns which were mentioned to Mr S. Mr S arranged with his bank 
his funds should be released.
Mr S was able to see his full investments and how these were now growing. A encouraged 
Mr S to invest as much money as he could as he could now see how well his investments 
were doing. He was also persuaded that this investment would result in regular income.
After receiving a further £50,000 from his financial advisor (which came from Mr Ss 
pension), Mr S instructed Santander to make a £50,000 transfer to A. Santander identified 
the discrepancy between the name of the recipient, A and the location of funds. They 
discussed the payment with Mr S and provided him with information theyd noted about this 
investment companys website being recently created. Mr S dismissed their concerns and 
explained hed discussed this investment with his advisor, whod noted this was high risk. He 
confirmed A was appropriately regulated in their overseas location. Mr S was satisfied hed 
seen how his existing investment was performing. Despite Santanders concerns and their 
confirmation that if this turned out to be a scam, they wouldnt be refunding him, Mr S 
confirmed the payment should be made. 
Mr S subsequently found he was frozen out of his account portal and believed he was the 
victim of a scam. He complained to Santander at the end of October. They tried to get funds 
returned but had no success in their requests.
The following week Mr S received nearly £1,500 from A  equivalent to the amount hed 
requested to draw down  so was less convinced hed been a victim of a scam. However he 
later couldnt access any further funds without paying significant amounts in supposed taxes. 
Santander contacted Mr S again in December and confirmed they wouldnt refund him as 
theyd followed his clear instruction. They did, however, offer him £75 compensation in 
recognition of poor service in handling his complaint.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt Santander hadnt 
properly flagged the first two payments. But taking into account the research Mr S had 
already done and his conviction when making the last payment, she felt any additional 
intervention by Santander wouldnt have made any difference.
Still dissatisfied, Mr S asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. His representative 
felt that no financial institution should have allowed Mr S to make the final payment of 
£50,000 because of what Santander knew.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I dont dispute Mr S was scammed and has lost a considerable amount of money from his 
pension. He has my sympathy about what he has gone through.
Theres no dispute that Mr S made and authorised the international payments. Mr S believed 
he was making financial investments in overseas stocks and shares with A who hed talked 
to and undertaken research on. Hed made previous (genuine) investments the year 
previously and remained keen on topping up his pension income.
Im satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017.
Its also accepted that Santander has an obligation to follow Mr Ss instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr S is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Santander 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.Mr S fell victim to an investment scam. These unfortunately arent particularly unusual. 
It is clear from the detailed testimony Ive seen from Mr S that he firmly believed he was 
making genuine investments. I note in particular he discussed A with his FCA-authorised 
financial advisor and was told he (the advisor) couldnt see anything wrong with it 
[although] he wouldnt put his name to it. 
Mr S had been in daily contact with A and monitored how his investments were performing 
following the daily opening of overseas stock markets. He was also able to see As regular 
updates on different social media. He was able to see his investments increase in value and 
hed been reassured that A could make payments to him. Hed also been reassured that A 
was regulated overseas.
I have reviewed what happened to Mr S. Ive also considered whether Santander should 
have taken additional steps or made additional checks before processing any of the 
payments which might have included providing warnings to Mr S.
Santander has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions. 
I can see this is the case as they delayed all the payments Mr S was making from the first 
£5,000 transaction onwards.
Ive listened to calls between Mr S and Santander on 18 June, after he attempted to pay 
£5,000, and again on 6 July after the £25,000 payment was blocked. Mr S was warned 
about being cold-called and asked if hed been told to lie to the bank about the reason he 
was making these payments. He was advised to check the Financial Conduct Authority 
website if it was a UK-based investment, or to ensure hed carried out his own research. 
Mr S told Santander he appreciated their concerns, he was fully aufait with the investment 
company and was happy about the risks. Statements were read out to Mr S warning him that 
his money could be lost (and wouldnt be refunded by Santander) if he proceeded with the 
transactions.
From listening to these calls I dont believe Mr S thought the descriptions of potential 
investment scams applied to him in any way. Despite Santanders script alerting Mr S to a 
scam, which matched what was happening to him, Mr S was already convinced A was 
genuine and was looking for ways to top up his future pension income. I appreciate the steps 
A had taken over the preceding months had led to Mr S being convinced they were genuine.
Mr Ss representative has suggested that more should have been done at this stage to 
demonstrate to Mr S that he was the victim of a scam. However Im satisfied with the steps 
Santander took to identify potential risks to Mr S.
When Mr S tried to make his final payment of £50,000, this was initially blocked. Santanders 
evidence shows Mr S phoned them on a few occasions to complain that Santander had 
referred the payment for further checks. He strenuously confirmed the payment was genuine 
and was embarrassed and inconvenienced by the delays Santander were causing. Its clear 
to me Mr S was worried about what impact that may have on his investments. Santander 
released all blocks on the payment, despite their concerns about what Mr S may have been 
doing.
Im aware Mr Ss representative has suggested that despite his instruction, Santander 
should have never allowed this payment to be made at all. I dont agree.
Overall I think theres enough evidence to suggest Santander took the appropriate steps to 
probe what was going on here. Whilst a bank is always in a better place than an individual customer to appreciate the complexity of scams, as stated earlier, it is also accepted a 
banks required to follow its customers instruction. Santander warned Mr S that this payment 
 and his history of two previous transactions  had all the hallmarks of an investment scam.
I have considered, in the light of Santanders warning and knowledge, whether they should 
have stopped Mr S from making the payment at all. But I dont believe they acted improperly 
here.
In this instance Mr S insisted that he was perfectly capable of making his own decisions to 
manage his money. His insistence  and his obvious awareness of the risks  would have 
influenced Santander in ensuring they followed his payment instruction. He also had a 
history of making investments and had discussed this with his financial advisor. It is also the 
case that there are potentially higher-performing, albeit high-risk, investment opportunities 
overseas.
Ive also considered whether Santander did enough after it was notified about the scam? 
Mr S notified Santander on 29 October 2021 that he wanted his money back. Santanders 
records show they contacted the two overseas beneficiary banks that day. However this was 
at least a month after Mr S had made the final payment and four months after the first. Its 
not unusual for fraudsters to move money on very quickly. Nor is it unusual for receiving 
banks based overseas to not respond to these requests  theyre not always subject to the 
same regulations as UK-based banks. Santanders records show that they received nothing 
further from these banks. I think Santander made reasonable efforts to recall Mr Ss 
payments. 
It was after this date Mr S received a payment of nearly £1,500. This temporarily convinced 
him he was making an appropriate investment and receiving income from that investment. It 
was a further month before Mr S realised hed been a victim of a scam.
Overall I believe Santander took sufficient steps to protect Mr S and I cant fairly tell it to 
refund Mr Ss money.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman