DRN-3453592
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax relied on an incorrect valuation 
when it gave him a mortgage in 2018.
What happened
In 2018, Mr O bought a property with a mortgage from Halifax. The property was valued at 
£245,000.
In 2020, Mr O put the property on the market. The buyer of the property had two valuations 
carried out. The first valued the property at £215,000, the second at £225,000. Mr O 
considers that the valuation carried out in 2018 was incorrect. He didnt believe there was 
any reason for a reduction in the value of the property
of between £20-30,000 in around two years. Mr O said that he couldnt complain directly to 
the surveyors as they were instructed by Halifax. He wants Halifax to investigate his 
concerns as it has access to the 2018 valuation and the 2020 valuations.
I emailed Mr O to explain that I agreed with the investigator that it was reasonable for Halifax 
to rely on the valuation carried out by a suitably qualified surveyor. But Halifax wasnt 
responsible for the content of the report. It was a basic valuation report that was for the 
benefit of Halifax, so it could decide if the property offered suitable security for it. I couldnt 
see there had been any error by Halifax when Mr O took out the mortgage. In view of that 
and as Halifax had not acted unfairly or unreasonably, I could tell it to do any more in the 
circumstances  and that included taking this matter further with the surveyors.
I added that although I could not comment on the valuation, it was accepted that valuing a 
property wasnt an exact science and it was generally accepted that a margin of error up to 
5% on residential properties  but it could be higher depending on individual factors.
Mr O responded to make a number of points:
He accepted that Halifax had not done anything wrong. But as the valuation was 
instructed through Halifax it had to complain about the valuation to the surveyors.
There were no external factors between 2018 and 2020 that would have affected the 
valuation  and the housing market in the area grew during that period.
He relied on the valuation.
He felt that a valuation report was appropriate as the property was listed and had only 
been converted shortly before he bought it.
The difference between the 2018 and 2020 valuations was between 8% and 12%, which 
is more than the accepted margin of error.
Halifax had agreed with the investigator to raise this matter with the surveyors. He was 
keen to make sure that the complaint is properly focussed.
He has been disappointed with the support provided by Halifax and has found its 
complaint process difficult.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with the position Mr O has found himself in. I can understand why he feels the 
valuation was flawed and that he has lost out as a result of that. It is perfectly reasonable for 
him to want his questions answered and to seek redress if he has suffered a financial loss. 
Im afraid I dont consider there is anything I can fairly compel Halifax to do. That is because 
the valuation was carried out for its benefit and it was reasonable for it to rely on the opinion 
of a suitably qualified surveyor. Halifax hasnt lost out as result of what happened. I can see 
it agreed with the investigator to raise a complaint with the surveyors  but it was finding it 
difficult to communicate with them. There was no requirement for it to do so. In view of that, 
and as I cant see that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably, I dont see how I could 
reasonably require Halifax to do anything further.
Mr O should contact Halifax directly if he wants an update on what is happening in relation to 
the complaint against the surveyors and Halifax should let him know if it has any updates. 
But it is for Halifax to decide what to do and how to progress that matter. It is not for me to 
consider the arrangements that Halifax has with surveyors or what steps it takes to assure 
itself that valuations are being carried out competently. Nor can I consider how Halifax has 
dealt with Mr Os complaint. Complaint handling is not an activity we can look at under our 
rules. And Ive found there was no obligation for Halifax to investigate this matter.
I note the points Mr O has made about the difference between the valuations and that was 
outside the acceptable margin of error. But the acceptable margin of error might be higher 
depending on a number of different factors. So the differences do not necessarily mean 
there has been an error. 
Again, I understand why Mr O feels that he has lost out and wants things looked at. 
Hopefully, Halifax will engage with Mr O regarding the complaint it has raised. But Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr O again as I cant in the circumstances here require Halifax to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman