DRN-3875642
The complaint
Ms S complains Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) has rejected 
claims made for veterinary treatment for her dog.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Ms S had a pet insurance policy with C&G for her dog, who Ill refer to as F, since April 
2019. 
On 25 November 2021, F was seen by a vet for two reasons the first being a second opinion 
on a diagnosis about masses on the mammary glands. The second was because F had 
gone off her food and had a temperature  recorded by C&G as Inappetence and Vomiting. 
She was given medication but by 27 November the vet records she was vomiting this up. 
Due to raised liver enzymes, F was treated by the vet for a gastrointestinal (GI) tract 
infection. Over the next few days, the notes record improvements in F at each visit  the 
vomiting had stopped, temperature reduced, and she was much perkier  and so the vets 
continued the medication.
When Ms S submitted a claim for the above-mentioned treatment to C&G, C&G reviewed Fs 
previous medical history and noted F had been treated for diarrhoea on 27 December 2019. 
It declined the claim, saying it was excluded under the policy. This is because under Ms Ss 
policy, it said conditions are only covered for 365 days from the date the problem is first 
noticed. After this period, no further cover would be provided for that condition or associated 
condition. As diarrhoea was related to the digestive system, no further claims (after 365 days 
from 27 December 2019) for the digestive system would be covered. And the claim in 
November 2021 was for vomiting which C&G considered to be part of the digestive system. 
Further, it said Ms S changed her policy in April 2021 and so, due to previous issues with the 
digestive system, an exclusion was placed on the policy at that point about digestive system 
issues.
 
Ms S sent C&G a letter from her vet in March 2022 to explain the conditions were unrelated, 
but it didnt change its decision. Ms S complained to C&G about this which I will call Claim 1. 
In its response to this service, C&G said Ms S was also unhappy itd declined two other 
claims because it said shed made the claims more than 90 days after the onset of the 
condition.
- Claim 2 - A claim for a skin condition (diagnosis of Epitheliotropic Lymphoma) where 
the claim related to treatment on 16 November 2019 but C&G said the claim form 
wasnt received until 2 March 2020. 
- Claim 3 - A claim recorded as being for ulcer in left eye where the treatment was on 
7 December 2021 as another dog caught an ulcer on Fs eye. The claim form was 
received on 15 April 2022. However, C&G stated the mass was brought to Ms Ss 
attention as early as 6 February 2020. 
In response, Ms S said all claims had been submitted in time by the vets. C&G didnt change 
its decision and Ms S brought her complaint to this service for an independent review.
The Investigator considered matters as follows:
Claim 1 - he didnt accept C&G had shown the issues were linked in any way as the cause of 
the diarrhoea was the general anaesthetic (GA) given to F and the vomiting was caused by a 
GI infection. So, he didnt agree C&G had declined the claims fairly and reasonably. To put 
this right, he asked C&G to reassess and, likely, pay the claim. 
Claim 3  In terms of timing, he considered the claim relating to treatment in December 2021 
was made in time. Further, even if the claim form wasnt submitted in time, he hadnt seen 
any evidence the delay caused a detriment to or prejudiced C&G. So, following Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), he didnt agree C&G was entitled to decline 
Claim 3 for this reason. To put this right, he asked C&G to reassess the claim. The 
Investigator explained C&G would likely need only to pay the parts of the treatment which 
related to the scratch and associated damage, and he anticipated the treatment likely didnt 
relate to this. This is because, ultimately, the vet recommended F was euthanised on welfare 
grounds as there wasnt likely to be a good outcome from treatment given Fs pre-existing 
condition.
As Ms S didnt have the funds to cover treatment, she had to pay for the treatment on credit 
cards. So, the Investigator recommended C&G cover the interest Ms S has incurred for any 
treatments it shouldve paid out.
Finally, after a detailed explanation, the Investigator asked C&G to pay Ms S compensation 
of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by it in having these claims declined 
unfairly, approaching the vet on different occasions for evidence and the insensitive 
communications sent to Ms S after F had been euthanised when C&G was aware of this. 
The Investigator couldnt comment on Claim 2 - which had been mentioned by C&G - as it 
had also sent our service evidence there was a different underwriter at that time. Therefore, 
it wasnt a claim our service is able to consider in this complaint. 
C&G didnt agree. It said it didnt have medical evidence from before F was insured with it 
but considered there enough to say the digestive exclusions was placed fairly. It argues that 
its underwriting criteria treats both diarrhoea and vomiting as digestive system problems. 
Therefore, if F suffered a digestive system problem (diarrhoea) in 2019, this is a clinical sign 
or symptom of a digestive system problem (vomiting) in 2021. Therefore, the exclusion 
relating to digestive system problems started on 26 December 2020. Further, it said the 90-
day time limit for claims to be submitted was explained throughout its material and the vet 
reminded Ms S of this, as stated in the notes from 6 February 2020. It also didnt consider 
ICOBS applied to it as it doesnt apply to businesses who have terms in place. In relation to 
the compensatory award, it said this is above the usual awards given by our service.
The Investigator communicated with C&G about the points raised and explained why this 
didnt change his mind. He also shared a link to our external website with information about 
awards made for distress and inconvenience.
As C&G didnt agree, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must explain to C&G I consider the Investigator reached a fair outcome in 
this matter. Ill explain why.
The starting point of any claim made under an insurance policy is the contract between the 
customer and the insurer - the policy document. 
Claim 1
Ms S took out pet insurance in April 2019. At this point, I dont consider it likely it was a time 
limited policy based on a claim form Ive seen from February 2020 completed by the 
business which selected a different type of policy. Therefore, I dont agree the 365-day 
exclusion applies to any conditions which occurred during that time. 
From the information provided, the 365-day policy started in April 2021. At that time, 
previous problems F had experienced may have been excluded from cover if they were pre-
existing conditions, defined as follows.
Pre-existing condition - any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated 
Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing 
in any form before the Policy Start Date...
Condition - Illness or Accidental Injury or any Symptoms or Clinical Signs of an 
Illness or Accidental Injury affecting Your pet.
Illness - any disease, sickness, infection or any change to Your pet's normal healthy 
state, which is not caused by an Accidental Injury.
F was seen on 27 Dec 2019 and put under GA for a skin biopsy. The vets notes record - 
pale brown diarrhea passed when waking up from GA. Given logic for few days.
Considering the evidence, Im not satisfied its reasonable for C&G to rely on the instance of 
diarrhoea caused by F having GA as a condition related to the digestive system which 
should fairly exclude all digestive conditions as a Pre-existing condition under the terms of 
the policy. 
Further, I consider C&G to have made an unreasonable connection resulting in an 
unreasonably wide exclusion that wouldnt have been clear to Ms S when she took out her 
policy as she wouldnt have been aware of C&Gs underwriting criteria.
Fs vet has provided her professional opinion that Fs previous episode of diarrhoea is not 
related to the vomiting claim. C&G hasnt provided any medical evidence to the contrary.
In light of this, I dont consider C&G has demonstrated it has fairly and reasonably declined 
Claim 1.To put things right, C&G should pay the claim for Inappetence and Vomiting (recorded on its 
system as having been received by C&G on 3 February 2022), subject to the remaining 
terms and limits in the policy. In addition, it should pay interest at 8% simple or, if greater, an 
amount sufficient to cover the interest paid by Ms S on the credit card used to cover 
treatment for F (subject to Ms S submitting evidence of the rate she paid). This is for the 
period from one month from the date the claim was made up to the date of actual payment.
Claim 2 
Given the evidence Ive seen, I consider it likely there was a different underwriter at the time 
this claim was made. I note it was C&G who raised this as an issue in its response to this 
service. However, if Ms S wants to complain about the decline of this claim, she will need to 
raise this with the policy administrator and give it an opportunity to consider the complaint. If 
this cant be resolved to Ms Ss satisfaction, she may then return to our service to raise a 
new complaint against the underwriter from that policy year.
Claim 3 
Firstly, I think its important to be clear  the regulators ICOBS does apply to C&G.
So, even if C&G can show Ms S failed to submit her claim within 90 days, it also needs to 
show it was prejudiced by the late notification. Thats because ICOBS says an insurer 
shouldnt reject a claim for a breach of a conditions unless the circumstances of the claim 
are connected to the breach. 
I appreciate theres a dispute about when Claim 3 was received by C&G. However, even if I 
was persuaded Ms S had breached the 90-day time limit, I still dont think it would be fair for 
C&G to rely on this to decline her claim. Thats because Im not satisfied C&G was 
prejudiced by the late notification. The cost of the claim hadnt changed, and the 
documentation C&G needed to validate the claim was still available. 
To put things right, C&G should pay the claim for Ulcer in left eye (recorded on its system 
as having been received by C&G on 15 April 2022), subject to the remaining terms and limits 
in the policy. In addition, it should pay interest at 8% simple or, if greater, an amount 
sufficient to cover the interest paid by Ms S on the credit card used to cover treatment for F  
(subject to Ms S submitting evidence of the rate she paid). This is for the period from one 
month from the date the claim was made up to the date of actual payment.
compensation
I consider the compensation of £300 recommended by the Investigator for the 
emotional upset, stress and inconvenience suffered by Ms S is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I agree with the detailed rationale the Investigator set out regarding this. 
Further, I think its important to explain to C&G our awards are made on a case-by-case 
basis and so they will likely differ depending on the individual circumstances of the case.
Putting things right
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should settle Ms Ss complaint by:
1. Settling Claim 1 and Claim 3 in full, subject to any other terms and conditions of the 
policy;
2. Pay interest on any amount due to Ms S at 8% simple* or, if greater, an amount 
sufficient to cover the interest paid by Ms S on the credit card used to cover treatment for F (subject to Ms S submitting evidence of the rate she paid). This is for 
the period from one month from the date the claim was made up to the date of actual 
payment; and
3. Pay Ms S £300 compensation.
*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms S how much 
its taken off. It should also give Ms S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint against Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd. It should now put things right by following the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman