DRN-2175699
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that Fairmead Insurance Limited has handled a claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr B discovered the floor of his garage was covered in water. So he got in 
touch with Fairmead. It told him that based on what hed told it, it didnt think the damage 
sounded like it was down to something the policy covered. So it didnt agree to send out a 
surveyor. It did tell Mr B that he had trace and access cover. This meant that if the damage 
was ultimately found to be down to a leak, the costs of accessing the leak would be 
considered.
Mr B appointed his own contractor to carry out works in the garage. His contractor later 
found that the water was leaking from a toilet in the garage. So Mr B got back in touch with 
Fairmead. It appointed a surveyor to visit Mr Bs home and validate the damage. Fairmead 
settled Mr Bs claim for the costs associated with putting right the damage, including the 
costs of tracing and it accessing it.
However, Mr B was unhappy because he said hed paid out over £20,000 to his own 
contractors who he felt had carried out unnecessary works. He felt Fairmead hadnt 
explained trace and access cover to him and that it shouldve sent out a surveyor to assess 
his property when he made the claim. He explained when hed made the claim, hed been 
going through a very upsetting family situation. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She felt Fairmead had told 
Mr B upfront that he had trace and access cover, but that the initial costs of tracing and 
accessing a leak would be down to him. She explained that the policy didnt include sending 
out a surveyor to carry out trace and access work. She felt this was common to home 
insurance policies. So she didnt think Fairmead needed to do anything more.
Mr B disagreed. He said if the trace and access clause had been pointed out to him at an 
earlier stage, he wouldve sought Fairmeads help in finding a suitable builder. He said that if 
hed known the damage was down to a leaking pipe, hed have simply called out a plumber 
and avoided the cost of the policy excess. He felt it was Fairmeads job to look after its 
customers. He considered Fairmead should pay around £5000 compensation towards the 
overall costs hed been charged by his builder.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Fairmead has treated Mr B fairly. Ill explain why.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. Its for a policyholder to show that the damage theyre claiming for is 
down to an insured event and that their claim is valid.
In this case, its clear Mr B didnt know whatd caused the water in his garage when he first 
called Fairmead. He felt the water couldve been down to heavy rainfall. But it seems there 
werent storm winds accompanied by heavy rain around that time and so the claim couldnt 
be considered under the storm cover. Fairmeads records indicate that Mr B didnt think the 
water was coming from a leaking pipe or that he thought it was coming from underground. 
But the flood cover under the policy excludes loss or damage caused by underground water. 
The accidental damage cover under the policy excludes claims caused by water getting into 
a building. 
So given the information it appears Mr B told Fairmead when he made the claim, it didnt 
look like the damage was down to something the policy covered. And I think it was 
reasonable for Fairmead to reach this conclusion. This means I dont think Fairmead acted 
unreasonably by not sending out a surveyor to look into the cause of the damage at this 
point.
Fairmead says it told Mr B about trace and access cover when he first called up. Mr B 
doesnt think it did. Unfortunately, Fairmead no longer has a copy of the claims call available, 
so I havent been able to listen to it. Wheres theres a dispute about what happened, I have 
to base my decision on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most likely to have 
happened, taking into account the available evidence and the circumstances.
While I dont have a copy of the call between Fairmead and Mr B, I do have a transcript of it. 
So Ive looked closely at this evidence. It seems that after Mr B was told he wasnt covered 
and a surveyor wouldnt be sent out, he spoke to a manager. The records state the manager 
told him that if there was a leak, he had cover for trace and access, which meant Fairmead 
would cover the costs of accessing the leak, but not the leak itself.
Ive placed significant weight on this transcript, as its the only written record I have of what 
was discussed. Im also aware that Mr B and his family were going through a very difficult 
time when he made the claim and that he mightve understandably forgotten what was said. 
So considering everything, I think its most likely that Fairmead did tell Mr B about the trace 
and access cover that was available under the policy when he first made the claim. 
Once Mr Bs contractor identified that the water was down to a leaking pipe, which is 
covered by the escape of water section of the policy, Fairmead accepted that hed shown he 
had a valid claim on the policy. So it appointed a surveyor and ultimately paid the claim, 
including trace and access costs. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly that hes incurred unnecessary costs as a result of the 
work his builder did. I understand Mr B has made a legal expenses claim on his policy to 
look into this further.
Overall, I dont think Fairmead did anything wrong that it needs to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman