DRN-3308700
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus wont refund a cash machine withdrawal from the account it didnt receive.
What happened
The director of E says he tried to take out £500 from a cash machine on 31 December 2020. 
The card was returned but no money was given and when he tried again his request was 
refused. He says he thought this was because he has a £500 daily limit. The owner of the 
machine said he should report this to Cashplus.
Cashplus said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It had made a chargeback to the owner of 
the cash machine. And it says it received evidence that the money was dispensed. It no 
longer has this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the money refunded with 
eight per cent simple interest per annum. She said we would expect to see evidence to 
support that the money was correctly dispensed and there were no errors. 
Cashplus didnt agree. It said it had received a copy of the journal roll relating to this 
withdrawal and asked that we accept that this had been most likely. It was now unable to 
obtain any further information and there was no possibility of it raising a dispute and said that 
we might be able to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was fairly Cashplus responsibility to provide evidence to support this disputed transaction. 
And I note the time that has since elapsed and that it had raised the dispute by chargeback 
and not contacted the cashpoint owner directly. So, it says that this restricted the time within 
which it could ask for information and its ability to ask specific questions.
My understanding in any event is that Cashplus as part of a chargeback would have only 
received a journal roll. Typically, wed also expect to see confirmation that the machine 
balanced, there was no rejected cash and that there were no technical errors.
I note that since this dispute E has raised another one about a withdrawal at the same cash 
machine in March 2021. I will be making a decision on that separately. But Cashplus has 
highlighted it has the extract of the journal roll for that one. And I can reasonably think about 
how likely it is that there were two such errors for E at the same machine. Against that I note 
that the director had been using this machine regularly for similar withdrawals from Es 
account and that E had significant credit balances.
Ive balanced all these factors in making my decision. Im not persuaded that Cashplus has 
established that this cash was correctly dispensed. And I accept the directors account on 
behalf of E of what most likely happened. So, I will be requiring Cashplus to refund this 
money with simple interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading as Cashplus to:
1) Refund £500 together with any related fees applied to E.
2) Pay E simple interest of eight per cent per annum on the refunded amount from the 
date of withdrawal to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman