DRN-2537107
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE have acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by refusing to refund their travel insurance premium. They want matters put 
right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D booked to go on holiday to Spain in August 2020 as a last-minute trip and had 
a single travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. The insurance policy was taken out on 21 
July 2020 and cost £1250.06. 
But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the holiday was cancelled with a full refund. Mr and Mrs 
D wanted Great Lakes to refund their insurance premium in full and asked to cancel the 
policy on 6 August; they were told that theyd contacted Great Lakes too late as the 14 day 
cooling off period had ended. Great Lakes offered £732.72 in credit vouchers.
Mr and Mrs D complained as they said theyd paid £1250 for the insurance. Great Lakes 
said that the vouchers could be used over a period of three years, or there was the 
alternative to move the trip dates to a new date (within 18 months of purchase). It pointed 
out that the terms and conditions of the policy said that once the cooling off period had 
ended, no refund would be made if the policy was cancelled. Great Lakes added that before 
cancellation, Mr and Mrs D were covered by the policy in case they needed to cancel their 
holiday for a reason covered by the policy  this was a benefit.
Mr and Mrs D complained to us. Mr D said he was in his 80s and the offer wasnt suitable. 
Great Lakes confirmed that the credit voucher could be gifted to a third party and used for 
single or annual trip insurance. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He pointed out that under the regulations Mr and Mrs D had a 14 day cooling off 
period to cancel the insurance, and hadnt cancelled in time, but had received the benefit of 
cover in the meantime. The investigator said that the cancellation rights under the policy 
were more favourable but still didnt entitle Mr and Mrs D to a refund. 
The investigator thought that a pro-rata refund should be made to reflect the fact that there 
was no cover after 6 August 2020 and the lack of any risk of Great Lakes having to make a 
payment under the policy after this date. But he didnt think the payment should be in cash 
as the terms of the credit vouchers were fair and reasonable. He pointed out that even 
allowing for Mr Ds age, he could go on holiday in the UK and need cover for cancellation 
amongst other things. The investigator said that the voucher offered was a pro-rata refund 
as the period of cover was meant to be 37 days, but Great Lakes risk ended early, meaning 
about 21 days of cover paid for by Mr and Mrs D was unused.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. Mr D said the cover didnt start until the trip was due to start. The 
investigator explained that this was incorrect as shown by the Schedule of Insurance. It 
started from when it was issued and included cancellation cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to Great Lakes, Im also referring to its agents. As an insurer, Great Lakes has 
a duty to act fairly and reasonably when dealing with policy-holders.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs D held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that relates to 
the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is material 
unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate method. The sum 
should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mr and Mrs D didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if Mr and Mrs D had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be entitled 
to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of them 
cancelling the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time.
The policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy and the regulations about 
cancellation of insurance policies generally. The legal position is that a consumer has a right 
to cancel an insurance contract within 14 days of taking it out, and the premium must be 
refunded, minus fees (the position is different if a claim is to be made under the policy). The 
policy in this case offers something more favourable to the consumer as it takes into account 
exceptional circumstances  it says:
If you ask us to cancel your policy in writing or by telephone, such cancellation shall take 
effect on the date the notice is received, or on the date specified in the notice, whichever is 
later. You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim. If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to 
cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs D didnt contact Great Lakes or its agents within 14 days of taking out the policy 
to cancel it. The cooling off period was highlighted in the documents sent to them. The 
reasons why they didnt cancel in time doesnt change the position  the reasons for the 
delay werent due to Great Lakes conduct. And Mr and Mrs D did get a benefit under the 
policy as if they needed to cancel the trip for an insured reason, theyd have received 
payment. They arent entitled to a refund of the premium under the terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
I think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on both the law and the terms and 
conditions to refuse to pay a full refund. While the policy allows for an exception to be made 
for exceptional circumstances, an example given is death, which shows such circumstances 
must be serious. And exceptional means rare or unusual. Mr and Mrs Ds case doesnt in my 
view reach this threshold  the policy was taken out in the knowledge of the existence of 
Covid-19.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from 
industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds contract because of the 
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ds contract with Great Lakes to be 
performed  cover under the policy started on 21 July 2020. Mr and Mrs D werent just 
insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also covered Mr and Mrs D for 
cancellation cover from the policy start date. So, the premium Mr and Mrs D paid covered 
the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any of a number of listed events 
insured under the policy including, for example, Mr D falling ill with a declared pre-existing 
medical condition.
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr and Mrs D making a successful claim on the policy 
from the policy start date until their holiday was cancelled. Its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however 
short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Ds 
cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the 
risk it covered during that time.
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mr 
and Mrs Ds insurance policy. Great Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the 
holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer 
going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made 
while Mr and Mrs D were travelling abroad.
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs D 
with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy 
from the date the holiday was cancelled.
How the refund should be paidIn considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Mrs Ds 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Mrs Ds reasons for doing so, it was their decision to cancel the 
insurance policy. Mr and Mrs D entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium 
in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. 
Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved 
to a future date.
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Mrs D. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances.
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months and is fully transferrable, 
so it can be used by either Mr and Mrs D or by a third party. The voucher can be used to buy 
a future travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip.
I understand why Mr and Mrs D may not wish to use a voucher. They had pointed out Mr Ds 
age and have said he might not wish to travel abroad in the future. The voucher is fully 
transferable, can be used to buy any type of travel insurance, and if Mr D was well enough to 
consider travel to Spain six months or so ago, I think hes likely to be well enough to enjoy 
future holidays, including within the UK and be covered for cancellation, amongst other 
things. The vouchers can be used for three years and I dont think theyve been offered on 
an unduly restrictive basis. I think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances
The calculation of the voucher
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly or any differently to other customers in 
similar circumstances.
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr and Mrs Ds unused period of standard 
travel insurance cover. The premium Mr and Mrs D paid for this policy was for a period of 
approximately 37 days from the policy start date to the original policy end date. 
The holiday was cancelled on 6 August 2020. The value of the voucher which Great Lakes 
has offered to Mr and Mrs D equates to the premiums equivalent to 21 unused days of cover 
from the date the holiday was cancelled until the planned end date of the trip on 27 August 
2020. This reflects the fact that Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy 
from the date the holiday was cancelled.
I think the offer by Great Lakes is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 April 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman