DRN-3187175
The complaint
Mrs M complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) outsourced its security 
checks to a credit referencing agency who asked inappropriate questions to verify her 
account.
What happened
In early 2021, Mrs M was required to register for an online account following changes made 
by NS&I in how it manages premium bond prizes. In order to register, she was asked some 
security questions; one of these asked for the name of her bank in 1964 and the overdraft 
limit for that account. 
Mrs M doesnt recall having a bank account back then, and if she did, she doesnt remember 
the details. She felt this was an unfair question, and there wasnt an option to answer not 
applicable or to request an alternative question.
On contacting NS&I, Mrs M was provided with postal forms to complete instead. She raised 
her concerns about the question but was told that the security checks are outsourced to a 
credit referencing agency. NS&I said it has no control of or responsibility for the questions. 
Mrs M queried whether any detrimental information had gone onto her credit file as a result 
of being unable to answer the question, but NS&I said shed need to contact the credit 
referencing agency directly to find out. 
Mrs M was unhappy with this response. She says shes NS&Is customer and it shouldve 
done more to take responsibility for what happened and put things right. She brought her 
complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. He was satisfied NS&I had 
acted fairly and that it didnt need to do anything more to resolve the complaint. As Mrs M 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I use a knowledge based authentication (KBA) system to protect the security of its 
customers accounts. This is outsourced to a credit referencing agency, who uses data from 
multiple sources to ask questions that only the customer will know the answer to. NS&I has 
informed its customers of this in its privacy notice.
Mrs M confirms that shes not complaining about NS&Is use of this system or that its 
outsourced it to a third party. She complains that the KBA system asked her unreasonable 
questions. 
When looking at this complaint, Im concerned with whether NS&I did anything wrong or 
unfair. Im not able to look into or evaluate the operation of a third-party security system. But 
I can consider whether it was reasonable that NS&I used it.
I think it was reasonable for NS&I to rely on a third-party security system in this way. Its 
unfortunate that Mrs M didnt know or remember the answer to the question asked  and I 
can appreciate why, given the amount of time thats passed. But I accept that NS&I didnt 
have control over the questions asked and isnt responsible if an answer cant be provided. 
Im pleased to see that NS&I had alternative measures in place that allowed Mrs M to 
register for the account in another way. As such, Im not persuaded that it has done anything 
wrong or unfair.
I appreciate Mrs M is concerned about her credit file. And she wants NS&I to provide some 
reassurance that it hasnt been negatively affected as a result of whats happened. But NS&I 
wont have access to Mrs Ms credit report. And it wont know what information a third-party 
has recorded. So Im satisfied it was correct in directing Mrs M to the credit referencing 
agency. Alternatively, there are several ways in which she can access her credit file online 
for free if she remains concerned. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman