DRN-2888132
The complaint
Ms B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement with
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as Alphera Financial Services.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this complaint and Im expecting to
uphold it. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation also explains that when we are considering whether a vehicle has
been of satisfactory quality we should think about whether it has proven to be suitably
durable. I dont think a reasonable person would think a car was suitably durable if, as is the
case here, the engine failed after less than 28,000 miles. I think a reasonable person would
expect an engine to last considerably longer than that.
So, I dont think this car was of satisfactory quality.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair the fault. I think the
business had that opportunity in August 2020 when the car overheated on the motorway and
had to be recovered. A coolant pipe was replaced but only 330 miles later the car
overheated again, and the business decided the engine needed replacing.
I think, on balance, that its likely the first breakdown in August 2020 was related to the
subsequent engine failure. On both occasions the car overheated and, as the subsequent
engine replacement appears to have resolved matters, I think its clear the business first
attempt at a repair failed.
If Ms B had asked the business to replace the engine I may have been persuaded the
business actions had been reasonable. But I can see that Ms B didnt want the car to be
repaired. She asked BMWFS to allow her to reject it when it overheated for the second time.
In their final response to Ms B the business explained that, as she had been in possession of
the car for 18 months the onus was on her to demonstrate the fault was present at the point
of supply and as Ms B hadnt provided evidence of that they refused to allow her to reject it.
But they didnt consider whether the car had proven to be suitably durable and they should
have.
So, I dont think the business have been reasonable here. They should have allowed Ms B to
reject the car as it had not been durable and was not of satisfactory quality. As the car is
now out of warranty I can understand Ms Bs concerns about keeping the vehicle for the
remainder of the hire period as any subsequent failures would be likely to be repaired at her
expense.
So, I think BMWFS should take the car back and end the finance agreement.
Ive considered whether the business should refund any of the finance instalments Ms B has
paid in respect of any lack of use she may have experienced. Ive not seen any evidence
that Ms B reported issues with the car before August 2020, so I think she had reasonable
use of the car up to that point and its fair that she pays for that use through the finance
agreement she has with BMWFS. The car was with the dealership for about three weeks to
have the overheating issues resolved so Im expecting to ask the business to refund one
monthly finance instalment in respect of the lack of use Ms B has experienced. They should
add interest to that refund.
Ms B has been inconvenienced by these problems. Shes been recovered by breakdown
services on two occasions and has explained that her holiday was ruined as a result. Shes
also had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think BMWFS could have dealt with
it earlier. In the circumstances, Im expecting to ask BMWFS to pay her £400 to compensate
her for the distress and inconvenience caused, and the loss of enjoyment shes had from a
car shes not been allowed to reject.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Ms B;
refund the August 2020 finance instalment and add 8% simple interest from the date
of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Ms B £400 to compensate her for the distress, inconvenience and lack of
enjoyment shes experienced.
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Bs credit file in relation to
this issue.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B didnt respond with any further information by BMWFS did. They said they couldnt 
understand where the Consumer Rights Act 2015 had been considered and that it appeared 
Id made my decision on the balance of probabilities and not fact. They queried whether 
warranties mattered, and suggested Ms B should have ensured she was covered by one for 
the period in question. They were surprised I could suggest the consumer should be allowed 
to reject the car after such a long time.
They said the important points were that it was Ms Bs responsibility to ensure she was 
covered by a warranty; that the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied as the fault had 
occurred after over a year and that despite the initial repair failing the car had now been 
repaired.
Ive thought about what BMWFS have said.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that when we consider the quality of goods we should 
think about the following aspects:
fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually supplied
appearance and finish
lack of minor defects
safety
and durability
It is durability that is at issue in this complaint as I dont think a reasonable person would 
consider a car to be durable if its engine only lasted for 28,000 miles. So, the engine wasnt 
durable when it was supplied to Ms B but it took 28,000 miles before that fact became 
evident. 
If Ms B had a warranty on the car at the time it failed she may have been able to benefit from 
it, but that wouldnt change BMWFSs liability or their responsibility to supply Ms B with a car 
that was of satisfactory quality.
I explained in my decision that I had thought about the fact the car had now been 
successfully repaired. I said:
If Ms B had asked the business to replace the engine I may have been persuaded the
business actions had been reasonable. But I can see that Ms B didnt want the car to be
repaired. She asked BMWFS to allow her to reject it when it overheated for the second time.
In their final response to Ms B the business explained that, as she had been in possession of
the car for 18 months the onus was on her to demonstrate the fault was present at the point
of supply and as Ms B hadnt provided evidence of that they refused to allow her to reject it.
But they didnt consider whether the car had proven to be suitably durable and they should
have.
So, I dont think the business have been reasonable here. They should have allowed Ms B to
reject the car as it had not been durable and was not of satisfactory quality. As the car is
now out of warranty I can understand Ms Bs concerns about keeping the vehicle for the
remainder of the hire period as any subsequent failures would be likely to be repaired at her
expense.
So, I think BMWFS should take the car back and end the finance agreement. I dont think I need to expand on that any further. 
Putting things right
I havent found BMWFSs additional comments persuasive and I can see no reason to 
change my provisional decision on this complaint. That now becomes my final decision on 
this matter.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Ms B;
refund the August 2020 finance instalment and add 8% simple interest from the date
of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Ms B £400 to compensate her for the distress, inconvenience and lack of
enjoyment shes experienced.
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Bs credit file in relation to
this issue.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman