DRN-3556014
The complaint
Mr W complains Oxbury Bank Plc (Oxbury) sent him emails in the early hours of the morning 
disturbing his sleep and failed to adequately compensate him for that.
What happened
Mr W says in early April 2022 he was awoken in the early hours of the morning, by his 
mobile phone informing him an email had been received. Mr W says the email message was 
from Oxbury letting him know a statement was available on his account. Mr W says such 
communications shouldnt be sent at this time of day and especially given he was caring for 
his elderly parents, so had no choice but to keep his mobile phone turned off, in case of 
emergencies. 
Mr W says he complained to Oxbury who agreed to put a stop to automated emails, but a 
day later he was sent another communication in the early hours of the morning disrupting his 
sleep once more. Mr W say he wrote to the CEO of Oxbury, who apologised but only offered 
a total of £50 for the stress and upset he had been through, which Mr W doesnt feel is 
sufficient.
Oxbury says it upheld Mr Ws complaint and have apologised to him and offered £50 by way 
of apology and feel that is reasonable. Oxbury told Mr W it was implementing changes to its 
systems which would take six to eight weeks to complete.  
Mr W wasnt happy with Oxburys response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Oxbury had accepted its mistake, apologised, agreed to review its systems 
and offered to pay Mr W £50 by way of apology, which he felt was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been inconvenient and upsetting for Mr W to receive email 
messages from Oxbury in the early hours of the morning, disturbing his sleep. 
The first thing to say here is Oxbury have upheld Mr Ws complaint, apologised, agreed to 
change its systems and offered compensation  so I will focus my decision on the level of 
compensation Oxbury offered, which Mr W doesnt feel goes far enough. 
I understand the points Mr W has raised in particular that he had little choice but to leave his 
mobile phone turned on, given he was caring for his elderly parents and I can see that would 
be a worry for him.  
Following Mr Ws complaint Oxbury agreed to review its systems, but said that would take 
some time to initiate and while Mr W did receive a second message while he was lodging his 
complaint, which was unfortunate, this was only a day or so later. Although Mr W may not 
agree, Oxbury were reliant on the third party to also immediately change its systems but 
unfortunately that didnt happen, which it has recognised. 
So, without trying to minimise the frustration and inconvenience this would have undoubtedly 
caused Mr W here, my role isnt to penalise businesses when service levels fall short, but to 
ensure it recognises those problems, apologises and offers a level of redress.
With that in mind, Oxbury have taken steps to put matters right, apologised for the 
inconvenience caused and offered Mr W £50 as an apology, which I am satisfied as an 
overall resolution to Mr Ws complaint, is fair and reasonable. I will leave it with Mr W to 
contact them if he wishes to take up its offer.
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Oxbury 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman