DRN-4359610
The complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with FCE Bank 
Plc trading as Ford Credit wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement in June 2019 to acquire a new car. In June 
2022 he took his car for an MOT and service. The car failed the MOT due to issues with the 
emissions and shock absorbers. The cost of the repairs needed to resolve the emissions 
issue was covered by Mr Ss warranty, but he was required to pay for the repairs to the 
shock absorbers. Mr S says that given his car wasnt even three years old when the MOT 
took place, these issues shouldnt have arisen and so he shouldnt have had to pay for the 
repairs. He also complained about the service provided by the dealership and that it returned 
his car dirty and damaged.
Ford Credit issued a final response letter in July 2022. It said it had contacted the dealership 
that said the car was brought in for MOT with existing damage. When inspected it was found 
that the rear shock absorbers were damaged, and the Engine Management Light (EML) was 
on. The dealership confirmed whilst the vehicle was in the dealership the warranty expired 
but it was agreed the EML repair would be covered by the warranty. The repair to the shock 
absorbers wasnt covered by the warranty as this issue was caused by damage to the car. It 
noted Mr Ss comments about the state of the vehicle on return and said the dealership had 
accepted this and the car was to be valeted and the scratches repaired.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Ford Credits response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said the issues on which 
the car failed its MOT had arisen prematurely  noting the age of the car and that Mr S had 
driven it less than 5,400 miles. She recommended that the cost of the repair to the shock 
absorbers be refunded along with interest and that Mr S be paid £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he had suffered by being supplied with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
Ford Credit responded to our investigators view. It said the car had been stolen and could 
have been damaged at that time and that the dealership had confirmed the fault wasnt 
consistent with a warranty repair. It said the car was damaged when taken for the MOT and 
the dealership thought this damage affected the shock absorbers.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I have set out my findings below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances. Mr S has raised concerns about the service 
provided by the dealership while his car was in for repair and the state of the car on return. 
However, this complaint is raised against Ford Credit, and I cannot hold Ford Credit 
responsible for the service provided by the dealership, only the service it provided and its 
liability under the relevant regulations.
Mr S acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit in June 2019. 
Under the relevant regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Ford Credit can 
be held liable if the car supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. As the car in this case was 
new at supply, it is reasonable to expect it to be free from faults, including minor defects.
Mr S took the car for its first MOT in June 2022 when the car was three years old. It had 
been driven less than 5,400 miles at the time. The car failed the MOT for the following 
issues:
Exhaust Lambda reading after 2nd fast idle outside specified limits
Exhaust emissions - engine idle speed too high
Offside Rear Shock absorbers has a serious fluid leak
Based on the above it is clear there were faults with the car when the MOT took place in 
June 2022. The faults were repaired, and the car passed the MOT in July 2022. However, 
for me to say that Ford Credit has liability in regard to the repairs undertaken I would need to 
be satisfied that the issues raised were due to faults present or developing at the point of 
supply.
The first two issues were resolved under warranty. So, while it is likely these were issues 
that arose prematurely, I do not find I need to consider these further as the repair was 
undertaken without cost to Mr S.
Mr S was required to pay for the repair to the shock absorbers, so I have considered 
whether the issue with the shock absorbers was more likely than not due to a fault present 
from the point of supply. While I agree with our investigator that issues with the shock 
absorbers wouldnt generally arise on a car of Mr Ss age and mileage, I have also had to 
consider the other evidence provided in this case.
Ford Credit referred to its system notes that said that Mr Ss car was stolen in January 2022, 
and they were awaiting insurance details. However, it has since provided a copy of the HPI 
check and this confirms the car wasnt stolen so I have disregarded this comment. The 
dealership has been consistent in its comments about the car being damaged when it was 
brought in for the MOT. The notes provided by Ford Credit from its discussion with the 
dealership say that the shock absorbers werent covered by the warranty due to the 
bodywork damage to the vehicle. It further states that Mr S has cosmetic cover which can 
repair the bodywork and the forms had been submitted for this. I have requested copies of 
any job cards showing repaired damage unfortunately these havent been able to be 
provided. But, based on the evidence provided I find it reasonable to accept that the car was 
damaged when taken for its MOT and that this could have caused the issue with the shock 
absorbers. Because of this I cannot say that the issue with the shock absorbers was the 
result of a fault present or developing at supply or that they werent sufficiently durable as 
the damage could have resulted in the failure. Therefore, I do not find that I can say Ford 
Credit is liable to cover this cost.
While it is possible that the other issues raised at MOT meant the car did have a fault 
present or developing at the point of supply as the cost of the repairs required to resolve this 
was covered by the warranty, I do not find that I can say Mr S was caused any financial 
detriment because of this. I appreciate the issues have caused Mr S distress and 
inconvenience, but they appear to be linked to the service of the dealership rather than Ford 
Credit. Given this I do not find in this case I can uphold this complaint.No new evidence was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, there were faults identified with the car when it was 
taken for its MOT in June 2022. While some of the issues were repaired under warranty and 
so at no cost to Mr S, he was required to pay for the repairs to the shock absorbers. 
For me to say that Ford Credit was liable for the cost of this repair, I would need to be able to 
say it was more likely than not that the issue with the shock absorbers was due to a fault 
present or developing at the point of supply. Considering all the evidence provided in this 
case I do not find I can say that that this is the case or that the shock absorbers werent 
sufficiently durable as the damage noted when the car was taken for the MOT could have 
resulted in their failure. Therefore, I do not find that I can say Ford Credit is liable to cover 
this cost.
No new evidence was provided in response to my provisional decision and so my 
conclusions havent change. So, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman