DRN-4039279
The complaint
Mr C has complained that a series of car finance agreements taken from Black Horse 
Limited trading as Jaguar Financial Services (Black Horse) are unfair, have been 
misrepresented, and were lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr C has been represented in this complaint by a firm I will call Firm A. However, for 
simplicity, I will always refer to evidence provided, or questions asked, as coming from Mr C.
Mr C acquired his first new car through the car dealership in question in November 2016. 
This was via a finance agreement from a different finance company and doesnt form part of 
this complaint.
During 2017 and 2018, Mr C part exchanged his car four times at the dealership, each time 
acquiring a different car, paying off the existing finance agreement often including negative 
equity carried over to a new agreement. The details of the prices, payments and equity have 
been shared previously in this case and are not in dispute, I dont intend to repeat them all 
again here. These four agreements, all with Black Horse, form this complaint.
Mr C has told us that on each occasion, the new agreements were mis sold to him. He says 
on the first occasion in April 2017 he was told he could get a better deal to change to a 
brand new car and told the interest on the finance would be less than he was paying on his 
current agreement.
In September 2017 he says he revisited the dealership to have a small repair carried out and 
told them that hed recently had some health concerns three months prior to that visit. He 
has told us that he was encouraged to acquire another brand new car and felt this was a 
pressurised sale.
In May 2018, he visited the dealership again, and told us he was encouraged again to 
acquire another new car. He says at every meeting he was mis sold new cars and 
encouraged to take out finance to acquire them. He then took out another new agreement in 
December 2018, his fourth agreement with Black Horse through the same dealership.
Mr C has told us that he was led to believe that by changing his agreements and getting new 
cars, he would be able to take advantage of better interest rates which would reduce his 
overall loan repayments, and that upgrading his vehicles would reduce his negative equity, 
but in reality this wasnt the case.
He has also said he was encouraged to put down minimum deposits, which increased the 
amount he owed and increased his loan repayments.
Mr C complained to Black Horse in 2020. Included in this complaint was an allegation about 
advisors suggesting Mr C should have the car stolen, to claim on the GAP insurance policy. 
He also raised concerns about being advised he could reduce his negative equity and 
monthly payments by taking the new agreements, about the amount of money the 
agreements had cost Mr C, that he was encouraged to put down minimal deposits which 
increased his overall lending, and that he was self-employed, which wasnt made clear on 
the agreements.
They responded with their final response letter (FRL) in November 2020. They didnt uphold 
his complaint, explaining that on each occasion, sales invoices provided confirm the part 
exchange values and the amount that needed repaying still on the previous agreements, so 
they were satisfied the negative equity situation was clear to Mr C. They also highlighted that 
no GAP insurance policy had been taken so didnt understand why someone at the 
dealership might suggest having the car stolen to claim on a policy that wasnt in force.
They clarified the amount Mr C had spent wasnt the amount he had claimed because none 
of the agreements had run their term, so each agreement had its negative equity cleared in 
full when he took out a new agreement. They also highlighted that on each occasion, there 
was an application for finance, and that Mr C returned afterwards, between 9 and 20 days 
later, to sign up to the agreements. They felt this showed he had time to take the information 
away and make an informed decision as to whether he wanted to go ahead with the new 
agreements.
Alongside this, they broke down the affordability calculations/checks they had carried out on 
each occasion. They had used income disclosed by Mr C of between £60,000 and £66,000, 
and the expenses he provided, plus credit file information, to confirm that on each occasion, 
he had disposable income available to make car payments of between £1,576 to £2,788 per 
month.
They agreed that the agreements didnt note him down as self-employed but confirmed that 
this wouldnt change their decision to lend, as his income had been verified through other 
checks. They confirmed that for the first three agreements, he had been noted down as 
being a director, but for the fourth application, he had said he was a sales director. This 
seemed to tie in with checks on the Companies House database they carried out when 
investigating the complaint which showed that his company had not been a limited company 
since October 2018, two months prior to the final agreement being taken.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome and brought his complaint to our service in January 
2021. Unfortunately, due to delays in collecting evidence and our investigation process, the 
investigator didnt issue their view on the case until July 2022.
They didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt agree that Mr C had been misled about getting 
better interest rates, reduced overall loan payments, or improving the negative equity 
position. They discussed a potential misrepresentation by the dealership about the negative 
equity but didnt agree that this conversation induced Mr C to take out the agreement. They 
felt the details were clear in the paperwork.
They also said that they had found no evidence of the alleged conversation between Mr C 
and the dealership about having the car stolen and claiming on the GAP insurance, and 
even if it had happened, Mr C hadnt followed that advice as no GAP insurance policy had 
been taken out. So, they couldnt conclude anything wrong had happened.
It is worth noting at this point that in March 2021, Mr C had part exchanged his car again and 
taken another finance agreement with Black Horse. This agreement came after the 
complaint to the business had been referred to us, and as such, I dont think its fair for us to 
consider this as part of this complaint.
Weve not been provided with the details of the agreement and Black Horse havent had an 
opportunity to consider any specific concerns Mr C may have about that 2021 agreement. On this basis, I am not considering it as part of this complaint.
I am aware that the investigator said in their view in July 2022 that Mr C had asked them to 
consider this further agreement, and they said had considered it during their investigation. 
But I cant see any evidence of them gathering any particular concerns about this agreement 
from Mr C, or asking Black Horse if they wanted to answer any concerns.
I think the investigator has considered the agreement in light of the general concerns about 
negative equity, but as Ill explain below, Mr C has also come back after their view with 
specific concerns about our answers to do with the affordability of the lending and it being 
irresponsible, and referenced concerns about misrepresentation and section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
In light of this, I dont think it is fair for me to consider this 2021 agreement as part of this 
complaint, when Black Horse have had no opportunity to consider or answer it. This 
complaint already covers four agreements, and a wide range of issues, and i dont think it 
benefits Mr C or Black Horse for me to try to also answer further points about an agreement 
taken out well after Mr C referred this complaint to our service.
There might be different specific concerns about the 2021 advice, for example I am aware 
that Mr C has changed his employment and his circumstances may have been different by 
the time he took that 2021 agreement. As I dont have this information, and this issue wasnt 
investigated by Black Horse in 2020, I am not going to consider it here. I will focus my 
answer here on the complaints raised to Black Horse in 2020, and subsequent questions 
and comments from Mr C while weve investigated those issues.
As mentioned above, Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view. He said that insufficient 
weight had been given to the irresponsible lending in this case, that he had been 
encouraged to enter into a series of agreements which resulted in the negative equity 
position worsening, and highlighted that he felt the agreements had been misrepresented to 
him.
He then also highlighted that he felt that the requirements of both Section 140A of the CCA 
and banking codes hadnt been considered with regards to explaining the risks involved, 
explaining the full costs of the agreements, and the general affordability of them. He asked 
for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on the case.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2023. My provisional findings were as follows:
Before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and
my reasons for reaching them. But I have read the submissions from each side in full and 
have considered all the points made in relation to the complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with vehicles under four 
hire purchase agreements. These are regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about them.
Particularly relevant here is section 56 of the CCA (Consumer Credit Act 1974), which has 
the effect of making Black Horse liable for anything the dealership has said in the negotiations for these hire purchase agreements. Black Horse can be held responsible for 
the things that were said and done during the sales process that induced Mr C to enter the 
agreements.
Im going to focus my response here on the areas of concern which Mr C has told us he 
doesnt feel weve considered properly to this point. Alongside this, I will confirm where I 
think answers previously provided are fair, and why I have reached that conclusion. I 
appreciate that this makes this a long response, and apologise to Mr C for this, but hes 
raised several points at different times, so I want to try to cover all of his concerns.
Mr Cs ongoing concerns fall into three areas. Whether the lending was irresponsible, taking 
into account the negative equity issues and general affordability of the loans. Whether the 
agreements were misrepresented in any way to Mr C, causing him to enter into one or all of 
the agreements when he otherwise wouldnt have. And whether any misrepresentation led to 
an unfair relationship arising between Mr C and Black Horse under Section 140A of the 
CCA, and banking codes.
Ill consider the concerns about irresponsible lending first. Within this, I am also going to look 
at the affordability of the lending, which Mr C has mentioned, but not focused on when 
bringing the complaint to our service. Some of these concerns are tied in with concerns 
about misrepresentation, so Ill answer some of these here as well.
The concerns Mr C has raised about irresponsible lending have centred on the amount of 
borrowing and the negative equity which accrued each time a new agreement was taken. He 
has said he was encouraged into entering a series of agreements which worsened his 
position. Hes said that no heed was given to payments increasing, and negative equity and 
the worsening position he was put into wasnt considered. Hes also said he was encouraged 
to put down minimum deposits, meaning he borrowed more on finance, and that he was told 
hed get better interest rates to refinance. Finally, he has told us about some health concerns 
in 2017 and that his health should have meant he was treated differently by the dealership.
With regards to putting down minimum deposits, Black Horse have highlighted that their 
brokers are trained so that they know they arent allowed to advise on the amount of deposit 
a customer should put down. This would only be part of an advised sales process, which 
they are not licensed to undertake.
Unfortunately, there is very little evidence of exactly what has been said or not said as part 
of these interviews at the dealership. As such, I give more weight to the paperwork provided 
and signed at the interviews, and then form my opinion based on the balance of 
probabilities, that is to say, what is most likely to have happened or been discussed at the 
interviews.
Ive seen no written evidence of any discussions about the amount of deposit required for 
any particular agreement. I can see that each agreement has had a different figure, and with 
no corroborating evidence, Im not persuaded that any advice has been provided about the 
level of deposit Mr C should use for each agreement.
With regards to increasing payments and interest rate changes, the monthly payments went 
from around £555 per month, up to £894 per month for the second agreement, then down to 
£744 per month for the third, and £539 for the fourth agreement. Theres no pattern of 
increasing payments here, indeed the payments come down after the 2nd agreement.
Similarly, with regards to concerns about being mis-sold interest rates, I can see that the first 
agreement was at 4.9% APR, the second at 5.9% APR, the third at 3.9% APR, and the 
fourth at 3.9% APR. Again, I dont see any pattern here that matches Mr Cs concerns that hes been mis sold or misadvised regarding interest rates.
Both the payments and the rates have gone up and down during the four agreements, but 
both have ended up lower than where they started. I cant see any written evidence of Mr C 
being misinformed or misadvised here, and all these figures are clearly evident on the 
finance agreements that he was provided with and signed up to.
This leaves the issue of negative equity. As was mentioned by the investigator here who 
looked at the case first, its widely known that the value of a car will go down, and because 
these cars were all new, its also widely known that the value of a new car drops as soon as 
you drive it away from the dealership. In changing the car four times in less than two years, 
negative equity would be extremely likely, particularly as Mr C had chosen not to put down 
large deposits each time.
However, Ive considered what information was given to Mr C about this, and whether hes 
been treated fairly by Black Horse in this regard. Ive also considered the overall 
circumstances; were they reasonable and do they feel fair, based on the evidence provided.
The sales invoices provided each time a new car was acquired outlined both the cost of the 
new vehicle, as well as the finance owing at that time and the part exchange value of the 
existing car being replaced. I havent seen any evidence of any of this information being 
misrepresented to Mr C. The finance agreements provided on each occasion show the total 
amount of finance required for each agreement, and I can see that Black Horse have 
confirmed the dates the agreements were quoted and paperwork was provided, and when 
they were signed, to evidence that Mr C, on each occasion, had time to take them away and 
consider them, to ensure they met his requirements.
I also think its really important to recognise that this wasnt about just refinancing an 
agreement on unfavourable terms. Mr C wanted to change his car for a new one on each 
occasion. When hes done this, in order to acquire a new car, hes proceeded with finance 
agreements that included dealing with negative equity from the previous agreement. If at any 
point he wanted to stop this cycle, he could have continued with an agreement, until it either 
reached its conclusion, when he could choose to give the car back with nothing further to 
pay, or until the agreement reached a position of having equity in it to pay off the agreement.
 I havent seen any written evidence that Mr C was told he would be better off from an equity 
point of view to part exchange and take a new agreement, and Im not persuaded that this 
conversation would have happened. As discussed above, its well known that new cars will 
lose value as soon as they are driven away from the dealership, and I am satisfied that the 
paperwork provided on each occasion is clear about the negative equity involved to take the 
new agreement.
Ive then considered the health issues Mr C has told us he suffered. I was sorry to read 
about the health issues he had in 2017 after he had taken out the first finance agreement in 
April 2017, although weve been supplied very limited details. Mr C has told us he was given 
the all clear to drive in September 2017, hence he had gone to the dealership to get 
something checked on the car and ended up part exchanging it and getting a new car.
Without further detail, Im not persuaded that Mr Cs health should have meant he shouldnt 
acquire a new car if he chose to. He had said he was given the all clear to start driving 
again in September 2017, which would suggest he had doctors approval to drive safely at 
that point. Hes also not indicated any ongoing concerns or issues which Black Horse or the 
dealership should have taken into consideration at the time. And Mr C hasnt told us about 
any effect his health was going to have on his income or expenditure or his wellbeing in the 
future, and there doesnt appear to have been any longer term impact here.An email trail hes provided from August 2017 also starts with the salesperson saying sorry 
to hear that pal, good to hear you back well. I think its most likely that this indicates Mr C 
had told them about his health issues but explained that he was feeling better.
Alongside this, as with all four agreements, the details were given to him and he had time to 
take them away and consider whether he wanted to go ahead and acquire the new car. He 
did this, and based on the evidence provided, Im not persuaded that Black Horse or the 
dealership should have done anything different when Mr C wanted to acquire a new car in 
September 2017.
There has been mention of concerns about affordability of the loans, but firm A did indicate 
that the principle issue for Mr C is the irresponsible lending with regards to the negative 
equity as discussed above. Black Horse answered the concerns about the affordability 
initially in their FRL, and I have sense checked this response alongside the evidence 
provided by both Black Horse and Mr C during our investigation.
Some evidence isnt available, as Mr C was self-employed, and his business has ceased 
trading, meaning that some financial documents and bank statements are no longer 
available to him. But from the evidence provided, for the four agreements taken in 2017 and 
2018, I have no concerns about the affordability of the lending to Mr C.
Black Horse have said that the income of Mr C was declared by him at between £60,000 and 
£66,000 at the interviews, and that they had been able to verify that income at the time 
through a variety of checks carried out. Whilst Mr Cs bank statements show payments in at 
various points from what appears to be his business, I cant verify with any certainty the 
exact amount of his income from the bank statements supplied. Black Horse have explained 
that one of the checks they carried out verified Mr Cs income through checking turnover on 
his bank accounts at the time.
Mr C has said his earnings were much lower but hasnt provided any evidence of this and I 
have been unable to find any published business accounts online to verify it. As such, 
without further evidence, Im satisfied that his income was most likely recorded accurately by 
Black Horse.
With regards to outgoings, what I can see from Mr Cs bank statements appears to match up 
with what hes told us, and what Black Horse have told us. Black Horse, as detailed above, 
said that Mr C had disposable income of between £1,576 and £2,788 per month at the 
various application points. This was assessed through automated checks based on some 
details he provided as well as recognised averages and credit file checks. Mr C has given us 
an estimate of his outgoings as around £2,500 per month, although this was stated as being 
in 2016. It also hasnt taken into account regular payments I can see from I believe Mr Cs 
partner into his accounts.
At £2,500 per month with no further contributions from his partner, Mr C would have had 
over £1,500 per month disposable income taking nothing else into account. With the car 
payments ranging from £540 per month to £895 per month for the various agreements, Im 
satisfied that based on the evidence available, Mr C had disposable income to meet these 
car payments, so they were affordable. Im satisfied that Black Horse carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks at the time on his finances to verify the affordability of these 
agreements, so I have no concerns here.
Ive also considered the plausibility of Mr Cs testimony that he was misled about many of 
these issues, and the reality of these agreements was misrepresented to him. With the 
paperwork being clear on these issues, Im not persuaded that Mr C is likely to have been 
told something different. He was provided with the relevant paperwork at the same time that he has said that he was told different information by salespeople at the dealership. Hes also 
said that he was told things which are directly contradicted by paperwork he was given at the 
same time, or that he wasnt told things which I am satisfied are clear in the paperwork.
There is a responsibility on consumers to read the paperwork they are signing and agreeing 
to, and as well as that, Mr C appears to have been given time to take the paperwork away, 
to ensure it meets his needs and matches his understanding of the agreements and the 
costs.
Mr C has said that he was encouraged to enter into a series of agreements which worsened 
his position. I havent seen any evidence of him being encouraged to do this. Indeed, the 
email trail shared from August 2017 seems to be driven by Mr C wanting to find a specific 
new car; the emails start on 18 August 2017 with the salesperson saying Im off until 
Monday, if it can be done Ill make it happen for you mateIll look at it first thing Monday. 
On 23 August 2017 Mr C replies asking if the salesperson has any ideas, which suggests 
he is chasing up the search for a new vehicle, until the salesperson comes back with a 
suggestion for a particular car which he says is the only one in the country with a particular 
specification that matches what Mr C wants.
I am not persuaded that Mr C has been encouraged to enter an agreement here by Black 
Horse, it seems evident that the driving force was a desire from Mr C to get a particular new 
car that he wanted.
Mr C has also raised specific concerns about misrepresentation with regards to the email 
correspondence with the dealership being misleading. Mr C shared with us an email chain 
from August 2017 about the proposed agreement which went ahead in September 2017. 
This email has a section from someone at the dealership which says £2,000 deposit from 
you, £897.94 per month, with us paying off your negative equity, which is over £9,000, same 
contract as youre on now.
He's provided this as evidence of the negative equity being misrepresented to him, but Im 
not persuaded by this argument. The reality of this is that they did pay off the £9,000 
negative equity from his existing agreement, and they did this via a small dealer contribution, 
and moving the rest of it onto the new agreement. This is clear on the sales invoice for the 
car acquired in September 2017, which shows he was being offered a new finance 
agreement for £56,335, with the value of the new car being £47,365.
Im not persuaded that the email sent in August 2017 has misrepresented the agreement, 
and induced Mr C to enter into it. I dont think the emailing is providing inaccurate 
information, but even accepting that this email may have confused Mr C and not been totally 
clear, hes then been provided with clear paperwork after this outlining accurately the figures 
involved, including the negative equity. Hes been able to take this paperwork away to review 
for a number of days before agreeing to go ahead with the agreement.
And Mr C has also raised concerns about being advised to have the car stolen so he could 
claim on the GAP insurance policy to deal with the negative equity. There is no evidence of 
this conversation, and Black Horse have said that there was no GAP insurance policy taken 
out. Theres no evidence of any conversation about this, but even if it had taken place, Mr C 
didnt choose to go ahead with any GAP insurance, so Im not persuaded that anything 
untoward or unfair happened here.
The other area raised by Mr C around misrepresentation is in relation to Section 140A of the 
CCA about the misrepresentations creating an unfair relationship between Mr C and Black 
Horse.Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the creditor and debtor 
is unfair, but it is relevant law, so I have taken it into consideration.
Ive considered this, but as I dont agree that any misrepresentation occurred here, Im not 
persuaded that an unfair relationship has been created. Ive not seen any evidence to 
indicate that there were any other acts or omissions by Black Horse or the dealership that 
were unfair or misleading. I therefore think its unlikely that a court would conclude that there 
was an unfair relationship in this case.
With regards to other concerns raised about section 140A or banking codes, Mr C has said 
that he feels there is a requirement for regulated businesses to explain fully the risks 
involved in a transaction, to explain the full costs involved, and to ensure general affordability 
is met.
As Ive explained above, I am satisfied that the affordability for these four agreements in 
2017 and 2018 was assessed fairly on each occasion, and the evidence shows the 
agreements as affordable to Mr C. Im also satisfied that the hire purchase agreements 
provided on each occasion, alongside the sales invoices, detail all the costs involved fairly. 
The finance agreements show the costs were Mr C to run an agreement for its full term, and 
the sales invoices outline the negative equity, and the fact that it is being financed onto a 
new agreement, and how this is happening.
I dont agree that anything here hasnt been disclosed fairly to Mr C, and based on the 
evidence I have, I am not persuaded that any requirements of the banking codes or CCA 
legislation werent met.
The arguments being made dont include recognition of a fundamental point here; that Mr C 
was refinancing the agreements because he wanted a new car on each occasion. On each 
of the four occasions, he has decided he wants to acquire a new car and has refinanced his 
previous agreements to allow himself to achieve this goal. None of the agreements taken 
have been done without consideration to ensure they were affordable for him, so Black 
Horse have satisfied themselves that he was not taking unnecessary risks to acquire the 
cars.
On each occasion, Black Horse have supplied paperwork to show the amount of finance 
being taken, and the value of the vehicles being acquired as well as the amount of finance 
needed.
Im satisfied that Mr C was provided all the relevant information, on each occasion, to decide 
whether he wanted to part exchange his car for a new one and take out a new finance 
agreement. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that any of these agreements were 
misrepresented to him or lent irresponsibly to him. As such, I dont intend to ask Black Horse 
to do anything more here.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Black Horse responded to my provisional decision saying they accepted it and had nothing 
further to add. Mr C also responded. He said he felt that his complaint had been 
misunderstood, and that his complaint was that when he went to the dealership in 
September 2017 for some repair/service work, he was lied to and persuaded to buy a new 
car, and that they would take care of the negative equity. 
What followed was him being persuaded that the only way to resolve the situation was to 
trade out and try to reduce his payments and negative equity. He said that he had no 
intention of acquiring any more cars, but felt he had to keep trading them in to try to resolve 
the situation. 
He said that he had only acquired the vehicle in September 2017 because of fraudulent 
representation and said that two members of staff had committed fraud, and the finance 
company should be responsible for this.
Ive considered these points from Mr C, but they dont change my mind. As I have said 
above, I dont have evidence that persuades me a misrepresentation occurred when Mr C 
acquired a new car in September 2017. He references conversations that happened, but 
there is no evidence of these. 
Alongside this, I have reviewed the paperwork supplied at the time, which I am satisfied is 
clear, and explains the situation correctly. So, even if I accept that Mr C might have 
misunderstood a conversation about negative equity, hes then then been given all the 
relevant information to read and ensure the agreement matches his understanding of what 
was happening. 
Im not persuaded that having read the paperwork, someone would believe that the negative 
equity was no longer present. And I dont think its reasonable when purchasing an item like 
a new car, for someone to decide not to read the paperwork, and to rely solely on their 
interpretation of a conversation theyve had. 
Im also not persuaded that someone would think they could trade their way out of negative 
equity. As Ive previously discussed, its well known that a brand new car will lose value as 
soon as its driven off the forecourt of a dealership, so I dont agree that expecting to keep 
changing for another new car every few months might seem like a way to get out of negative 
equity. Alongside this, Ive seen no evidence of any conversation about this, which would 
lead Mr C to believe this is what would happen. 
And my final point on this, is that on each occasion, paperwork was produced, and given to 
Mr C to take away and ensure he wanted to go ahead. He has said he felt there was a 
pressurised sale, but I dont agree. These agreements followed a process which allowed him 
to take the paperwork away for several days, to read it and decide if he wanted to go ahead, 
before returning to sign up to an agreement. 
Overall, I dont believe the agreement was misrepresented to Mr C, and even if it had been, I 
am satisfied that Black Horse provided all the relevant paperwork to Mr C for him to have 
recognised if something wasnt as he expected it to be. For all four agreements, I dont 
believe any misrepresentation occurred, and have seen no evidence that persuades me 
otherwise. 
Ive also seen no evidence of any fraudulent representation, or fraud of any kind from the 
dealership or Black Horse. As such, I wont be asking Black Horse to do any more here. My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman