DRN-1930632
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Liverpool Victoria Life Company Limited (LV) wrongly sold her an Over 
50s plan, in 2010, with no limit to the amount she would have to pay to ensure a pay-out on 
her death. She says it was not clear from the information and shes only recently discovered 
that the eventual pay-out is capped irrespective of how much she pays in. She also says LV 
failed to provide her with a reasonable level of service and didnt tell her it no longer sold 
these plans.
What happened
An investigator at this service did not feel Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld.
He said she had chosen to take out the plan without any advice from LV; it was a non-
advised sale. This meant its prime responsibility was to ensure that the product information 
clearly set out the terms and conditions including the fact that there was no cap on the 
number of premiums that needed to be paid. This, he felt, was clearly spelt out including the 
key point that a customer needed to pay the monthly premium till they died in order for their 
dependents to receive the specified sum of £1,360.
He agreed that LVs customer service hadnt been good enough but felt its offer of £100 was 
fair and reasonable.
Mrs H did not agree, and said:
Most people do not understand what they are signing up for and nobody pointed out 
that she had signed up for the rest of our life, giving LV money that they will not pay 
out
It is morally wrong to take money off a pensioner, money they could ill afford and give 
Liverpool Victoria money for doing nothing
The investigator never mentioned that LV do not sell this insurance now and they 
never thought to mention this to her
The money she had paid in will that go to prop up LVs coffers
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the evidence and arguments when assessing the merits of this 
complaint and in this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. 
As such, I will not repeat the points he made beyond saying that I am satisfied that the leaflet 
did explain that monthly payments were payable till death and that there was no cap on how 
many needed to be paid.
That said, I fully understand Mrs Hs frustration and disappointment at discovering she will 
have to carry on paying indefinitely to ensure an eventual pay-out, and could eventually pay 
far more in premiums than £1,360. But this, in essence, is how all types of insurance policies work from house insurance to motor and travel policies. Some customers make a claim (or in 
this case die) long before they have paid in the amount they or their dependents receive 
while others pay far more than will be paid out in the long run. In the case of home, car and 
travel insurance they often never make a claim and so receive nothing back.
This is the only way an insurance company can run its business  some customers getting 
back more than theyve paid in, others receiving less or nothing. So I cannot say that LV was 
wrong to sell these types of Over 50s plans. The fact that its chosen to stop doing so 
doesnt indicate it did something wrong previously. 
I acknowledge that some businesses sell capped-plans but, by definition, these will be more 
expensive than uncapped ones in order to guarantee a similar level of profit to uncapped 
ones.
Finally, I agree that LVs offer of £100 for the difficulties Mrs H faced in talking to a 
representative was reasonable and dont believe this should be increased.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman