DRN-2060800
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2003. Mr 
and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI.
Mr and Mrs M bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2003. TMPP can be split 
into sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical 
illness cover. Mr and Mrs M complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI 
cover only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI policy was optional and gain their 
consent before adding the PPI to their mortgage. There isnt much paperwork available from 
the sale of the policy, but from what we know about how Halifax sold this type of policy at the 
time I think its likely Halifax would have presented the PPI as optional and gained Mr and 
Mrs Ms consent before adding it to their mortgage. So, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr 
and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them. Mr and Mrs M have told us that Mr M was entitled to sick pay when they 
took the PPI, they could have relied on family to help, and had other polices available 
through work. They also had some savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mr Ms sick pay, and for longer. It would also have paid out in circumstances that their other 
cover wouldnt have. 
In addition to this the PPI would have protected Mr and Mrs Ms savings so they could be 
used towards other expenses. And while Mr and Mrs Ms family would have wanted to help if 
they were unable to make their repayments, I dont think this offer of help could be 
guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, they werent affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman