DRN-3503359
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the support AutoMoney Limited trading as AutoMoney Motor Finance 
(AutoMoney) offered when she fell into arrears on her hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In October 2019 Ms D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
AutoMoney. The agreement was for £15,184, with a first payment of £362, followed by 46 
monthly payments of £313, and a final payment of £412.  
Ms D left her job shortly after she entered into the agreement. She said that she had agreed 
a payment plan with AutoMoney after she told them about this change in income. Shes 
unhappy as she said theyre now asking her for a larger monthly payment and threatened to 
repossess the car if she didnt make the higher payments. Ms D said that she relied on the 
car for her mobility due to her health.
Ms D said that she had been impacted by the Covid 19 pandemic and AutoMoney hadnt 
treated her fairly at this time. She said she had to change her job and home school her 
children, and it was this that made her agreement unaffordable. She said AutoMoney hadnt 
offered her a payment deferral but made her pay the amount in a payment plan. She said 
they later agreed to reassess her income and expenditure. She said this was unaffordable 
as it coincided with her having to buy school uniforms.
AutoMoney said they agreed an affordable repayment plan with Ms D in November 2019. 
They said they reviewed this every three months, and an arrangement had been in place for 
eighteen months. They said they reviewed the arrangement at this point and felt that it 
wasnt in Ms Ds interest to continue with the agreement. This was because she couldnt 
afford to meet the contractual monthly instalments and the arrears were increasing every 
month.
They said they explained the exit options to Ms D. They said they agreed a new 
arrangement that would meet the agreed contractual amount and clear the outstanding 
arrears within 12 months after Ms D told them she was now receiving a higher income. They 
said this would mean that Ms D would pay the contractual amount for the remainder of the 
agreement without being left with an outstanding balance.
They said a later review of Ms Ds Income and Expenditure showed that the monthly 
payments were no longer affordable to Ms D. They said exiting the agreement was the best 
option for Ms D as they felt that meeting the contractual payments would impact on Ms Ds 
ability to meet priority bills.
Ms D was unhappy with AutoMoneys response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that AutoMoney did have a responsibility to treat Ms D appropriately 
and this included ensuring the debt on her account didnt become too big for her to manage. 
She didnt think AutoMoney acted unreasonably in the way they assisted Ms D with
managing the arrears on the account. She also said that it wasnt unreasonable for 
AutoMoney to seek to repossess the car.
Ms D disagreed. She said her insurance company had offered AutoMoney £9,000 to settle 
the agreement. She said AutoMoney refused this and are now pursuing her for a higher 
amount. 
Because Ms D didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Ms D was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered and read everything theyve said and sent 
us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the 
crux of Ms Ds complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. That is whether or not 
AutoMoney treated Ms D fairly and reasonably when she was in arrears and had defaulted 
on her agreement.
Payment arrangements
Ms D contacted AutoMoney in November 2019 to inform them shed left her job and had no 
income. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in 
particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), say that 
regulated firms like AutoMoney should treat consumers in default or in arrears difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration. Treating consumers with forbearance would include 
a number of things including allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and accepting token 
payments for a reasonable period of time. So, based on this, Ive considered whether or not 
AutoMoney treated Ms D in line with expectations.
Ive reviewed the statement of account and see that Ms D only made one payment of the 
agreed contractual amount. All payments after then were lower than the contractual amount 
and either part of a payment plan arrangement, or a smaller payment than agreed in any 
payment arrangement that Ms D had accepted.
I can also see that AutoMoney considered Ms Ds financial circumstances on several 
occasions throughout the agreement period, and agreed payment plans based on the result 
of those affordability checks. On several occasions Ms D failed to make the payment agreed 
in the payment arrangement, even though this was substantially lower than the contractual 
amount. This led to a significant and increasing amount of arrears on the agreement.So Im satisfied that at all times AutoMoney has treated Ms D fairly, and in line with the 
expectations in the FCA Handbook.
The Covid payment deferral request
In April 2020 Ms D informed AutoMoney that her income had been impacted by the Covid 
pandemic and she requested a payment deferral.  AutoMoney declined this request and Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for them to do so. I say this because the guidance issued by the 
FCA in April 2020 was for consumers whose finances had been impacted solely by the 
pandemic. Ms D had by this time accumulated several months arrears, so the guidance 
didnt apply in her circumstances.
Ending the agreement 
Ms D says that she fully intended to make all the payments due under the agreement, but 
cant do so within the original term she agreed to.
The agreement she entered into was for a period of four years. The terms of the agreement 
say that she must pay the instalments in full and on time (clause 2), and if she doesnt 
AutoMoney may add default charges (clause 10) and end the agreement (clause 11). 
In doing so they must follow rules set by the FCA. This includes the rules in CONC 7.3.3.G 
which says that firms like AutoMoney should allow for missed payments to be made within 
the original term of the agreement. 
There are exceptions that allow AutoMoney to extend the period of repayment, but only if 
that doesnt increase the total amount payable to be unsustainable or otherwise cause 
a customer to be in financial difficulties.
Ms D was in substantial arrears by July 2021. So I think it was reasonable for AutoMoney to 
conclude, after conducting another income and expenditure review, that Ms D would be 
unable to afford sufficient payments to repay the agreement in a reasonable time, and that if 
they had, the payments would be unsustainable.
So I accept that it was reasonable for them to decide that terminating the agreement would 
mitigate the adverse consequences for Ms D.
Theyve explained their reasons why to Ms D in their letter of 27 May 2021. In this letter they 
also explained the various ways Ms D could end the agreement, including early settlement, 
voluntary surrender, and voluntary termination options. They also explained that defaulting 
on the agreement would be the costliest option for her.
I understand that Ms D didnt pursue any of the voluntary options. So I think its reasonable 
for AutoMoney to seek to treat the agreement as defaulted, and repossess the car as set out 
in the terms of the agreement. In doing so they need to treat Ms D with appropriate 
forbearance, especially in relation to any outstanding amounts owed. 
The insurance settlement offer
Ms D said that her insurer offered AutoMoney £9,000 to settle the account. I havent seen 
any evidence of this offer being made. I have seen a note from an insurer to AutoMoney that 
says they were repairing the vehicle and wouldnt be making any payment to AutoMoney. So 
I cant say that AutoMoney has refused to accept a settlement offer. Ms D has explained that she needs the car because of her health and disability. I appreciate 
how difficult this decision will be for her, but I have to consider whether or not it was 
reasonable for AutoMoney to take the action they have. I think it was reasonable for them to 
conclude that Ms D was in an agreement that she could no longer afford and that terminating 
the agreement would reduce the longer term impact on her financial circumstances.
As Ive explained above Id expect AutoMoney to consider her current financial situation and 
treat her with appropriate forbearance when considering an affordable payment plan to clear 
the arrears. I think this is fair and wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint about AutoMoney Limited trading 
as AutoMoney Motor Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman