The complaint
Mr R complains about the interest rate he was offered when he asked Lloyds Bank PLC if it 
would loan him some money. He said he banks with Lloyds, so he didnt understand why he 
was offered a much lower rate elsewhere.
What happened
Mr R banks with Lloyds, and has been a loyal customer in recent years. But he said that 
when he asked for a car loan, Lloyds would only offer a loan at 14% annual percentage rate 
of interest (APR). Mr R asked why Lloyds APR was so high, and it told him to get copies of 
his credit report. He said he did that, but it was all above par. Lloyds then said it just didnt 
know why he was being offered such high rates. Mr R asked Lloyds for a personal loan, and 
it offered him 18% APR. Mr R said hed got the loan elsewhere for a little less than 6%. 
Mr R said hed been put at a disadvantage by having to apply elsewhere for credit. He 
wanted compensation for that. And he wanted Lloyds to be transparent about why it was 
only offering him such high rates. 
Lloyds said it had offered Mr R the best interest rate it could at the time. It said it wasnt 
given a reason for the APR quoted, so it couldnt pass that on to Mr R.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said it was, essentially, 
Lloyds decision whether or not to loan Mr R money. And if it was going to loan money, then 
Lloyds could decide what rate it wanted to offer. Our investigator said our service wont 
interfere with that. And he noted that Mr R had actually taken a loan elsewhere, so he hadnt 
lost out. 
Mr R replied. He accepted Lloyds could make its own business decisions. But he said when 
he asked why the rates were so high, he was told to get credit reports from any one of three 
credit reference agencies (CRAs). He said when he went back to Lloyds with two of those 
reports, he was told to get a third. Then when he went back with the third credit report, 
Lloyds told him it was helpless as the system was still showing the same rates. He said he 
was happy to share those credit reports with us if we wanted. 
Mr R said if the branch officials knew they could do nothing about the rate he was being 
offered, then why was he asked to get these credit reports? And he asked why he wasnt 
entitled to know why Lloyds was rating him so poorly, and offering him such a high rate. 
Our investigator appreciated that Mr R felt his time had been wasted, but he didnt think that 
would warrant any compensation or a change of the assessment. And he said that, whilst its 
frustrating not to know why a business sets its interest rates, banks make a commercial 
decision about those, and they arent obliged to share it. 
DRN-1478669Mr R didnt think that should be allowed. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached the same overall conclusion 
as our investigator on this case, and for broadly the same reasons.
Lloyds said it couldnt explain to Mr R why it had offered him such high rates for loans. Whilst 
the rate for lending is Lloyds decision, its not usually worked out by a person. Its the result 
of an algorithm, which takes account of a number of factors. 
The way that algorithm works is extremely complicated, and it is commercially sensitive 
information. Banks dont have to tell customers whats involved. So I wouldnt expect Lloyds 
to set out in detail for Mr R why he was offered these rates. And, as Lloyds reply to his 
complaint suggests, many people who work at the bank wont know the details of it.
Mr R might like to know that not all of the factors that are taken into account when rates are 
decided would necessarily be to do with him. Some may well assess other factors, like the 
banks appetite for lending at the time. 
Mr R said that lloyds made things worse by wasting his time, asking him to get credit reports. 
But I dont think that lloyds staff wouldve known this would be a waste of time for Mr R. The 
one thing that banks can suggest to people if they find theyre being offered lending at a 
much higher rate than they expect, is to check their credit report. I think this is likely to be 
why Mr R was asked to check his, and why Lloyds suggested that he look at the third of the 
three major CRAs, when the other two showed favourable reports. 
Mistakes on credit reports arent common, but they do happen. If that had been the reason 
for the high interest rate, then Mr R wouldve been able to request an amendment to his 
credit report. We now know it wasnt. But I dont think this was bad advice from Lloyds, or 
that it was always going to be a waste of Mr Rs time. 
I know Mr R would like more information on the decision that was made on lending to him, 
but, as our investigator said, that is a commercial decision for the bank to make. Lloyds 
doesnt have to give Mr R the information he would like. And that means that, although I 
know that Mr R will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I hope 
though that the explanations I've provided will be of some value to Mr R.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman