DRN-3292861
The complaint
Mr S complained that Wakam unfairly settled a third party drivers claim made against his 
commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S was opening his car door when another cars wing mirror hit it. There wasnt any 
damage to his car. He said that the third party wanted Mr S to pay him compensation. Mr S 
refused as he didnt think he was to blame for the incident. 
He reported the incident to Wakam and gave them his account of events, as well as the 
third partys contact number and other information. Wakam said they would deal with it and 
update him when necessary. But when he contacted them later, he was unhappy to find 
that Wakam had treated the incident as Mr Ss fault. They had been in touch with the third 
party and had already arranged to pay to repair the third partys car. So theyd settled the 
third partys claim against his policy. 
Mr S complained to Wakam about both their decision on liability and their failure to tell him 
that decision before settling. He said that their decision that he was at fault had put his 
premiums up. He wanted Wakam to reverse their decision or compensate him for any 
adverse effect on his future premiums. But although Wakam apologised for not telling him 
their liability decision first, they felt that their decision was correct. And so they didnt offer 
him compensation. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. They thought that   
Wakam had decided liability reasonably and in line with their terms and conditions. Mr S 
didnt agree and so the case had been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we dont decide which party is liable for causing an incident as 
that is a matter for the courts. But we do consider whether a business has acted in line with 
their policy terms, and whether they reached their decision in a fair and reasonable way. In 
this case, Ive checked that Mr Ss policy does give Wakam discretion to decide liability and 
take over and deal with the defence and settlement of any claim. 
This means that Wakam can decide to settle whether Mr S likes it or not. Wakam 
acknowledged that they hadnt told Mr S first and they apologised for that. But while I think 
that it would have been good practice for Wakam to tell Mr S in advance, they had the right 
to settle it anyway, and they would have done so whether or not he agreed. 
As regards their decision on liability, its clear that Wakam did listen to Mr Ss account of 
events as well as that of the third party. There were no independent witnesses and so it was 
one persons word against another. I think that Wakam did look at the evidence as a whole. 
Mr S said he opened the car door despite having noticed in his rear-view mirror that the 
third party was approaching. He held the door open a few inches waiting for the third party 
to pass. He thought that the third party had enough room to pass, or that the third party was 
speeding. But Wakam reviewed the photograph hed sent of the location, plus online views 
of it, and they didnt think that there was enough room for him to let another car pass. They  
thought that if it went to court it was likely that Mr S would be deemed liable as he had 
opened the door onto oncoming traffic. 
I can see that Mr S is unhappy that the third party hadnt made a claim and that Wakam 
contacted the third party with information Mr S had given them. He felt that if he hadnt 
reported the incident to Wakam that he wouldnt be in this position and could have resolved 
the matter with the third party without involving Wakam. I can see that Mr S feels that his 
honesty had been used against him somehow. But its a condition of Mr Ss policy that he 
must report any incident and fully cooperate with Wakam about it, and this would include 
providing information about the third party. Thats something that all insureds must do and 
its a condition of providing the insurance. And once an insurer receives a report theyre 
responsible for dealing with it, and are entitled to do so in a way that protects their rights 
and minimises their costs. So I dont think that it was unfair for Wakam to contact the third 
party rather than wait for him to claim, and I dont think they were unreasonable. Theyve 
also explained to Mr S why they did what they did. 
Further, Wakam settled his claim on a without prejudice basis, which means that they did 
not admit liability on Mr Ss behalf and he can still take the third party to court if he wants. 
So overall I think that Wakam did sufficient investigation into the matter before settling it. I 
can see that Mrs S feels unhappy about the result but, based on the available evidence, I 
consider that Wakam did not act unfairly or unreasonably in settling the claim as they did. 
And so I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
 For the reasons above, it is my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
