DRN-2235430
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Motor Gap Limited (MGL) mis-sold him a guaranteed asset 
protection (GAP) policy.
Background
Mr P bought a four year return to invoice (RTI) GAP policy from MGL naming himself as the 
policyholder. Around two years later the car insured on the policy (the car) was in an 
accident and deemed a total loss.
The comprehensive insurer of the car paid the cars market value to the lease company 
which owned the car. Mr P claimed on his GAP policy for the difference between the 
comprehensive insurers settlement and the cars purchase price on the invoice. But the 
insurer which provided the cover for the GAP policy - which is a different business to MGL, 
and which Ill call A  told him that he wasn't eligible to claim on the policy.
Mr P complained. He said that as he wasn't eligible to claim on the policy MGL had mis-sold 
it to him. And if it had sold him a policy he was eligible for then he could have claimed on 
that and, at the very least, wouldn't have to pay off the balance owing on the finance 
agreement for the car, which was around £6,000. So he felt that MGL should step into the 
shoes of the insurer and settle his GAP claim. MGL didn't agree it had mis-sold the policy. 
Mr P brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 September 2020. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so its likely I won't uphold it. 
MGL is a broker so it sells policies and may help with their administration. But it doesn't 
provide the cover itself. As Ive said above in this case thats offered by A which is an entirely 
separate business from MGL. That means MGL has no responsibility for As actions. So, in 
this decision I'm not going to make any findings about A and focus on what MGL was 
responsible for. That said, in order to paint a picture of what happened I need to refer to the 
reasons A gave for turning down Mr Ps GAP claim.
There are several different types of GAP policy. And not all will fit each potential 
policyholders needs. The GAP policy Mr P bought was an RTI policy. And, in the event of a 
successful claim, the policy would pay the difference between the cars comprehensive 
insurers settlement and whichever is higher between:
the invoice price for the car, or
the amount outstanding on the finance to buy the car.
But RTI policies aren't suitable for all finance agreements. In particular they generally require 
the policyholder to be the person or entity that actually bought the car. And they also usually 
require them to be the cars registered keeper. So RTI policies aren't usually suitable for cars 
held on a lease basis, as generally the leaseholder doesn't actually own the car.
At the time Mr P took out the GAP policy he wasn't buying the car himself. Instead a 
company - that Mr P was a director of - which Ill call E, had entered into a lease 
contract/hire purchase agreement with a lease company for the car. That contract was 
directly between E and the lease company providing the car. So Mr P wasn't a contract 
holder himself, although he and another individual acted as guarantors for E on the contract. 
The nature of the contract was such that it paid the lease company a monthly fee for use of 
the car. And after 48 months E could buy the car outright by paying a significant balloon 
payment. But until that point the lease company would remain the registered keeper and 
owner of the car.
But, at the time the car was deemed a total loss, E was no longer a going concern and had 
been dissolved. When Mr P claimed on the GAP policy, A decided that he wasn't eligible to 
claim because the car was held by E on a lease basis. The car was sold directly to the lease 
company. So neither E nor Mr P were named on the invoice as having bought the car. And 
the lease company was the registered keeper of the car. A said that because Mr P wasn't 
the owner or registered keeper of the car he wasn't eligible to benefit from the policy. So, 
after our investigators intervention, it returned Mr Ps premium. And as Ive said above I 
don't intend to comment on the merits of As actions in this decision.
Mr P believes that because MGL sold him a policy he wasn't eligible to claim from then it 
must have been mis-sold. So I've looked at the available evidence from the policys sale. 
The call recording when Mr P bought the policy is no longer available, and I've said some 
more about that below. But as I can't now listen to it I've looked at the evidence that is still 
available to decide whether or not I think MGL acted reasonably when it initially sold Mr P 
the policy.
I understand Mr P first looked for the policy online. He then rang MGL to buy it. During that 
call its not in dispute that Mr P said he was acquiring the car on a hire purchase basis 
including paying a deposit. He also said he would be the cars registered keeper, although 
he says he told MGL he wouldn't receive the V5 (logbook) until hed finished paying for the 
car.
So in other words Mr P told MGL he was buying the car on finance. And he said hed be its 
registered keeper. But thats not accurate. Mr P wasn't buying the car at all. In fact it was the 
lease company that bought the car. And E - not Mr P - acquired the car on a contract basis. 
Although Mr P and another person acted as guarantors for that lease they weren't 
leaseholders themselves. And the registered keeper of the car remained the lease company. 
And because of that A decided that the RTI policy Mr P bought wasn't suitable for him. But I 
don't think that was MGLs fault.
MGL offered Mr P a policy based on the information he gave to it including that he was the 
cars registered keeper. Had Mr P told MGL he wouldn't be the cars owner or registered 
keeper I think its extremely unlikely it would have offered Mr P the RTI policy. Thats 
because being the registered keeper is a key criterion for being able to claim from it.
Also I think its worth noting that MGL sold the policy on what's known as a non-advised 
basis. That means it didn't make a recommendation as to which policy Mr P should buy. But 
it needed to give Mr P information that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could decide 
if the policy was suitable for him. And I think it did that.
The policy MGL offered Mr P was suitable for the situation Mr P described. That is had Mr P 
been buying the car himself on finance, where he paid a deposit and would be the registered 
keeper of the car, then the policy would have been suitable for him. But Mr P wasn't buying 
the car himself. He didn't pay a deposit and he wasn't the cars registered keeper. And I don't think MGL could have known that. So I don't think it was its fault that the policy Mr P 
bought turned out not to be suitable at the time he came to claim on it. It follows that I don't 
think it was MGLs fault that Mr P bought the policy he did.
Our investigator thought that MGL did mis-sell the policy, in part, because the policy 
documents don't have a separate eligibility section that clearly describe the policys eligibility 
criteria. But at the time MGL sold the policy in 2017, it wasn't responsible for the policy 
documents, A was. So I don't think its fair to hold it responsible for any omissions in the 
policy documents. It follows that I don't think it did mis-sell the policy.
That said I understand Mr P believed that a call recording of the sale of the policy would 
show that it was mis-sold. MGLs told us that its system automatically deletes call recordings 
after two years. So, as Mr P bought the policy in September 2017, then its system deleted 
the call recording in September 2019. But MGL first looked into Mr Ps concerns in 
August 2019, a month before the recording was wiped, and it listened to the call recording 
then. So I think it should have known at that point that the call recording might be needed in 
order to deal with Mr P's queries. So it should have taken action to make sure that it was still 
available until the matter was cleared up. But it didn't do that. And as a result Mr P thinks 
hes lost the chance to prove his case. But I don't think he has.
As I've said above MGL listened to the sale call recording when responding to Mr Ps initial 
concerns. And I've heard another call recording where it discussed the content of the sale 
call with Mr P. And in that conversation Mr P acknowledged that hed said he was buying the 
car, that he was paying a deposit for it and that he would be its registered keeper although 
he said he wouldn't receive the V5 until he'd made the final payment for the car. He doesn't 
dispute that he didn't tell MGL that the contract was between E and a lease company, or that 
the lease company would remain the cars registered keeper and owner. So the key points of 
the sale call aren't disputed. And as I've said above, it was on the basis of the information 
Mr P gave MGL that it offered Mr P the RTI policy. And had that information been accurate 
the policy would have covered him. But it wasn't and I don't think I need to listen to the sale 
call to reach that conclusion fairly.
MGL accepted my provisional decision, Mr P didn't. He said that he asked for the correct 
insurance in the original sale call but MGL claimed to have lost/disposed of that 
conversation.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr P said he gave MGL the correct information in the initial sale call. But I note he hasn't 
disputed telling MGL that he was buying the car himself, that he was paying a deposit for it 
and that he would be its registered owner and keeper in that call. But those things aren't 
accurate. And, as I said in my provisional decision, I think if Mr P hadn't given that inaccurate 
information and instead told MGL that the car was being acquired by E on a leasehold 
contract then it wouldn't have sold him the RTI policy. So Mr Ps comments don't persuade 
me that MGL mis-sold the policy.
Also, for completeness Ill add that its not unusual for businesses to delete some 
information, like phone recordings, after a set period of time. And as this is done 
automatically it doesn't require an individuals input. I commented in my provisional decision 
that given Mr Ps complaint MGL should have taken action to prevent the call being deleted. But I don't think the fact the call was deleted means it would be fair to conclude MGL 
mis-sold the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman