DRN-2189574
The complaint
Mr G has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) didnt repair a leak at his
property in a timely manner and that this caused further damage. He also complains that BG
didnt respond to correspondence in a timely manner.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case. Both BG and Mr G provided further 
information. Having taken this into consideration, Im persuaded that my provisional decision 
continues to be the fair and reasonable outcome in this case.
What happened
Mr G has a rental property. In December 2018, there was a leak in the main bathroom. This
was fixed by BG. After this leak, Mr G took out a Homecare policy with BG to provide him
with cover in the future against such incidents.
Mr G called BG again in July 2019 to report a leak from a toilet in the en-suite bathroom at
the same property. An engineers appointment was arranged for 22 July 2019. This
appointment didnt take place because the engineer couldnt park near Mr Gs property. Mr
G says theres a loading bay outside his property, pay and display parking nearby, and a
public car park about a minutes walk away. He said hed asked his tenants to stay
at home to give BGs engineer access.
Mr G says that when he was contacted by BG to be told about his cancelled appointment, he 
wasnt offered another appointment, but was simply told to contact BG to complain about the 
failed appointment because of the lack of parking. Mr G emailed BG the next day to 
complain. 
BG responded to Mr G by email on 23 July telling him that it would get back to him within
three working days.
By 2 August Mr G still hadnt received any reply from BG to his initial complaint. He emailed
again to say that if he didnt hear back from BG hed need to arrange for an independent
plumber to come and deal with the issue.
By 7 August, Mr G still hadnt received any response from BG so he emailed it again. He
again informed it that in order to prevent further damage hed have to employ an
independent plumber to come and fix the leak. He expressed his disappointment that hed
taken out insurance with BG to cover such matters but he hadnt had any response from BG.
On 13 August, after he still hadnt received any response from BG, he phoned it. He says he
explained the parking situation in full to BGs customer services agent who told him that this
wouldnt be a problem, and an appointment was made for an engineer to call on 16 August.
The same engineer who cancelled the appointment on 22 July because of the parking issue
attended.
Mr G says that the leak caused further damage to his property from 22 July, when BGs
engineer failed to attend, until 16 August. Mr G says that BG should compensate him for the
cost of repairing this damage.
He says that that hes suffered financially as a consequence. He says it cost him a total of
£847 to replace carpet and for other repairs to leak damage, and hes provided copies of
receipts for these payments. In addition to the cost of repairing the damage, he says his
tenants moved out because of the delay in having the leak fixed, and he had to pay an
agency charge of £240 for new tenants. He also says he incurred further expenses in
travelling, parking, and phone calls, and also suffered stress and inconvenience.
Hes seeking compensation of £1,117 for his financial loss plus an additional £200 tor the
time, stress, and inconvenience he says BGs service has caused him.
BG has declined to pay Mr G any compensation other than £50 for the inconvenience of the
failed appointment on 22 July.
In response to my provisional decision, BG has repeated its view that any damage was from 
before the fault was reported and it wouldnt have got any worse if the toilet wasnt used. Mr 
G has said the damage did get worse even though the toilet wasnt used becasue his 
tenants werent there. In any event there was another toilet in the property that couldve 
been used rather than continuing to use one that was clearly leaking and causing damage to 
the carpet, floor and walls. Mr G has provided a texted confirmation from his tenants 
confirming that they were abroad for most of the time.
Mr G isnt happy about how BG has handled his complaint. Despite his policy stating that BG 
has eight weeks to reply to a complaint, BG said in its email on 23 July that it would respond 
to his complaint within three working days. Hed therefore assumed that his complaint had 
been acknowledged by BG and that it would address his concerns about having a repair 
done in a timely manner. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered that it wasnt unreasonable for BGs engineer to abandon the
visit because he wasnt able to park at the property, and that the £50 compensation was
reasonable. He accepted BGs explanation as to the cause of the leak and therefore
considered that BG wasnt responsible for the damage. He also considered that Mr G had a
responsibility to book another appointment after 22 July and that he hadnt done so, but BG
shouldve responded to him within the three days it said it would. He recommended that BG
pay Mr G a further £50 compensation.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view and asked that his complaint be considered by 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account what both BG and Mr G have said in response to my provisional 
decision.
I consider that the first issue is the parking limitations at Mr Gs property which led to BGs
engineer not attending on 22 July.
Ive noted that BG has relied on a term in Mr Gs policy relating to access, which states:
Getting into your property
Our engineers will only work on your property if theres someone 18 years old or olderthere at all times during the visit. Its your responsibility to give us access to your property.
If we cant get access we wont be able to complete the work and its then up to you to
arrange another appointment
I dont consider that this assists BG. I consider its aimed at getting into a property rather
than being able to park very close. Mr G says his tenants stayed in to let the engineer in.
I dont think it was reasonable for BG not to attend on 22 July. BGs records show its
engineer arrived at Mr Gs property and left two minutes later. There were parking options
nearby. The BG engineer whod attended in December 2018 had used one of these options,
as did the engineer who cancelled the appointment on 22 July when he attended again on
16 August to fix the leak.
There must be numerous properties belonging to BG customers where there is no access to
private parking or guaranteed on-street parking nearby. If any repair by BG is dependent on
being able to park outside, then this should be mentioned in the policy document, and a
warning given to potential customers that they wont receive a service if their engineer cant
park outside. Mr G says theres no question relating to availability of parking on BGs
website. If there genuinely had been no parking available nearby when the engineer visited
on 22 July, then another appointment couldve been attempted for later that day or as
soon as possible afterwards.
The second issue is what happened after 22 July.
If BG couldnt keep Mr Gs appointment, I consider it reasonable that it attempt to schedule
another one rather than wait for Mr G to contact it again. Mr G has said that when he spoke 
to BG about the cancelled visit he wasnt offered another appointment. He says he was 
simply told to make a complaint about the failure of BGs engineer to attend because of the 
parking limitations. Mr G emailed BG the next day. 
Whilst he may not have used the most appropriate email address, Mr G received a response 
from BG saying that it would respond within three working days, which it didnt do. Nor did it 
respond to further emails on 2 and 7 August.
BG only responded after Mr G phoned it on 13 August. A new appointment was arranged,
and Mr G was told that parking wasnt an issue. BGs notes show a comment for the
engineer that day  the same engineer who didnt attend on 22 July - call xxxxx - phone to
get directions for parking  pay parking in nearby car park.
BGs records show that the job description on 22 July was The cistern leaks (but only when
you flush it). This must be how Mr G initially described the problem to BG. BG couldnt
have put that in its records from its own investigation as its engineer didnt attend on that
date. Ive also no reason to disbelieve the evidence from Mr Gs tenants that they used
another toilet within the property and werent actually there for most of the time as they were
abroad.
Im persuaded that between 22 July and 16 August, the leak was continuing and was 
causing further damage to Mr Gs property. BGs own records refer to the leak as 
continuous and uncontrollable.  From the photographs Ive seen I think it unlikely they 
show the extent of damage as at 16 August.
It follows that the longer the leak went unrepaired, the greater the damage it would
cause. Even though Mr G contacted BG the next day, BG didnt respond within three days,
or to two further emails. Had it done so, in my view the damage is likely to have been much 
less.My conclusion is therefore that damage continued to be sustained to Mr Gs property from a
continuous leak between 22 July until 16 August and that BG is partly responsible for this by
failing to attend on 22 July or very shortly thereafter in response to Mr Gs email of 23 July. I 
dont consider that BG is in any position to say that the damage didnt get worse between 22 
July and 16 August when it never saw the condition of the property on 22 July. 
But I consider that Mr G also has some responsibility for the extent of the damage as well. I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for him to have telephoned BG rather than to rely on 
emails. As BG didnt respond to his email of 23 July within three days, I think he shouldve 
made further attempts promptly to contact BG rather than wait a further seven days before 
doing so, and then a further five days before his next email, and then a further six days 
before phoning. BG had been informed that the leak was only intermittent, when the toilet 
was flushed, so it wouldnt have appreciated the urgency of a repair. Mr G, on the other 
hand, was in a better position to know the increasing urgency of a repair.
I think the fair and reasonable decision is for me to require BG to make a contribution to the
costs that Mr G had to incur to repair the damage caused by the leak. He says he hasnt
claimed on his buildings insurance to recoup his financial loss, and I dont consider hes
obliged to do so. As I consider that Mr G couldve taken steps to accelerate the repair, I
consider his responsibility is the greater.
Im therefore proposing to require BG to pay Mr G £350 towards his financial loss in addition
to the £50 its already paid him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above ,Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £350 towards his financial loss in 
addition to the £50 its already paid him.
I also require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay interest on the sum payable at the simple 
rate of 8% a year from the date Mr G made his claim to the date payment is made to him.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman