DRN-2942755
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the way AWP P&C SA handled a claim she made on her home 
emergency insurance policy  
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs Os boiler broke down, leaving her without any heating or hot water. 
She made a claim on her home emergency insurance policy. An engineer attended Mrs Os 
home and told Mrs O shed need a new gas valve. He managed to get the boiler turned back 
on. However, that night, the boiler turned itself off again and couldnt be turned back on.
Mrs O says she made a number of calls to AWP, as she was once again without heating or 
hot water. But around four days later, as the boiler was still broken, Mrs O arranged her own 
engineer. They diagnosed that the boiler needed a new thermocouple and a new 
programmer. These parts were replaced, meaning that Mrs Os heating and hot water were 
restored. Mrs O asked AWP to reimburse her costs of £351.27.
AWP refused to refund Mrs Os costs. It said the policy terms specifically excluded any costs 
which it hadnt pre-authorised. Mrs O was unhappy with AWPs decision and she asked us to 
look into her complaint.
Ultimately, AWP offered to reimburse Mrs Os costs of £351.27, together with compensation 
of £100 to recognise her trouble and upset. Mrs O accepted this offer, which our investigator 
thought was fair and reasonable.
However, despite Mrs O accepting AWPs offer on 4 May 2021, the settlement hasnt been 
paid and AWP hasnt been in contact with her. So the complaints been passed to me to 
make a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mrs Os complaint and direct AWP to settle Mrs Os costs of 
£351.27 and pay her compensation of £100 because:
While AWP sent an engineer to Mrs O promptly, it appears that the fix he carried out 
failed very shortly afterwards. This left Mrs O without hot water or heating during the 
coldest part of the year.
Mrs O says she tried to get in touch with AWP to arrange a new engineer to visit her 
home, without success. It appears she tried to comply with the policy terms, but AWP 
was unable to confirm when an engineer could attend. This meant she remained 
without heating for around four additional days, before she organised an independent 
engineer to visit. I think, given Mrs O is elderly and given the time of year, it was 
more than reasonable for her to engage her own engineer to carry out the repairs. 
The independent engineer was able to promptly diagnose the actual fault and carry 
out the necessary part replacements, restoring Mrs Os heating and hot water. So it 
seemed AWPs engineer misdiagnosed the fault at the outset, leading to 
unnecessary further delays in the fix being carried out.
AWP agreed to settle Mrs Os costs and pay her £100 compensation. Mrs O 
accepted this offer. It seems to me then that AWP and Mrs O entered into a legally-
binding contract for these costs to be met by AWP. But it hasnt yet met these costs 
and hasnt got in touch with Mrs O to arrange payment. Im satisfied it now needs to 
fulfil the terms of this contract. If Mrs O is unhappy with the further delays shes 
experienced, its open to her to raise this with AWP. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to:
- Reimburse Mrs Os costs of £351.27
- Pay Mrs O £100 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman