DRN-2853976
The complaint
Miss M complains Western Circle Limited (trading as Cashfloat) lent to her irresponsibly. 
Miss M also says Cashfloat gave her loan after loan but repaying them with interest caused 
her problems and led her to have to borrow more money.
What happened
Miss M took two loans from Cashfloat, and the table below contains some of the information 
I have been provided about the lending from Cashfloat; 
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
repaymentslargest repayment
1 £500.00 20/04/2019 01/05/2019 4 £214.45
2 £600.00 04/08/2019 outstanding 4 £236.92
Cashfloat says Miss M told it she was having some problems and it so agreed a repayment 
plan with her in October 2019. 
An adjudicator who assessed the complaint didnt think it was wrong to have granted these 
loans. He thought that the checks completed by Cashfloat were proportionate and from what 
he could see the loans appeared affordable for Miss M. The adjudicator also didnt think it 
had yet reached the stage where the loans wouldve appeared unsustainable for her. 
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess Miss Ms application for borrowing to check if she could afford to 
pay back the amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments and Miss Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Miss M. These factors include: 
Miss M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Miss M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss M.
At the time the loan was lent, Cashfloat was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable 
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender 
realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Miss Ms complaint. Having looked at everything, Im not 
upholding the complaint because I think the checks Cashfloat did were proportionate and 
showed it that Miss M was able to afford the repayments she was committed to making. 
Loan 1 was due to be repaid over four months with a largest repayment of £214.45. Loan 2 
was also due to be repaid over four months with equal payments of £236.92. Cashfloat 
needed to do proportionate checks to establish whether Miss M would be in a position to 
repay these loans. 
At the time of application Miss M declared she had an income of £2,130 per month for loan 1 
and £2,160 for loan 2. In terms of expenditure Miss M declared that her outgoings were 
£1,160 for loan 1 and £1,090 for loan 2. So, it did seem, based on what Miss M declared, 
and what she was committed to repaying towards these two loans that shed be in a position 
to afford the repayments. 
Even though loan 2 was for a larger sum, there wasnt anything in the way that Miss M 
repaid loan 1 which wouldve meant Cashfloat needed to carry out more detailed checks 
when she returned for loan 2. And I think it was fair, given the circumstances for Cashfloat to 
have relied on the information that Miss M had provided for both loans.
There was also a three-month gap between Miss M repaying loan 1 and taking loan 2, which 
wouldve been further evidence to suggest that Miss M wasnt reliant on this form of lending. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss M was struggling financially and repaying the final loan has 
proved difficult. And I accept that her full financial circumstances may not have been 
reflected in either the information she provided, or the other information Cashfloat obtained. 
But at this early stage of the lending relationship, I dont think Cashfloats checks needed to 
go further than it did and there was nothing in the information that it obtained to suggest that 
Miss M was having wider financial difficulties. I also dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship, or based on 
the information Cashfloat knew about Miss M that meant it needed to verify the information 
Miss M was telling it  so I dont think that it wouldve discovered that Miss M may have been 
having financial difficulties at the time.
It is possible that had Miss M continued to borrow from Cashfloat, that its likely it wouldve 
needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved asking 
for evidence of her financial position. But considering Miss M only took two loans and these 
appeared affordable, I dont think Cashfloat was wrong to have approved them.
So overall, for these loans I think the checks that Cashfloat did were proportionate and these 
checks showed it that Miss M would be able to afford the loan repayments she was 
committed to making. Which leads me to conclude that it wasnt wrong of Cashfloat to have 
provided these loans. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint about her loans. I appreciate this 
will be disappointing for Miss M. But I hope that shell understand why Ive reached the 
findings that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman