DRN-4187494
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money did not cancel a direct 
debit.
What happened
Mr W says he cancelled a direct debit but Virgin Money didnt do this. He says they tried to 
pay the direct debit without his permission. Mr W made a complaint to Virgin Money who did 
not uphold Mr Ws complaint. They said there was no evidence that he asked them to cancel 
the direct debit prior to 19 April 2023, or that he attempted to do it himself via internet 
banking or via the mobile application (app). Mr W brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said on 13/14/18 April 2023 letters 
were sent to Mr W to say the direct debit payments had been declined due to insufficient 
funds in the account. She said Virgin Money doesnt have any record of the cancellation of 
the direct debit until after these dates, and their internal records show the direct debit was 
last presented on 21 April 2023, and no funds debited his account.
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He provided evidence of an email 
from the direct debit provider on 15 February 2023 which says We appreciate you taking the 
time to get in touch, and I am sorry to hear that you would like to cancel. I can confirm that 
your Monthly Contribution has been cancelled with effect from your last billing date on the 
22nd of January 2023. No further payment will be taken. Mr W says Virgin Money sent him 
letters about the failed direct debit collection and leaflets which caused him upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr W that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what letters 
or leaflets they should send to a customer if they have been unable to process a direct debit 
payment. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct Virgin Money to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. 
I can sympathise with the position that Mr W found himself in here. I say this because he has 
provided evidence from the direct debit provider that they told him that they cancelled the 
direct debit on 15 February 2023. The wording of this email states I can confirm that your 
Monthly Contribution has been cancelled with effect from your last billing date on the 22nd of 
January 2023. No further payment will be taken. So Mr W would expect no more direct debit 
payment attempts. 
Ive looked online at the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account to see if this says anything 
about cancelling direct debits. Section 3.4.6 of the terms covers this. It says If you wish to 
amend or cancel either a standing order or Direct Debit you must provide us (and the payee 
in the case of Direct Debit) with your authority at least one working day before the 
transaction is due to take place. But the evidence Virgin Money have provided us is that Mr 
W cancelled this direct debit on 20 April 2023, and although he contacted the direct debit 
company before this, it doesnt appear that he contacted Virgin Money about this before the 
third party company tried to take the direct debit payment. 
Ive looked at the chats which Mr W had with Virgin Money, and the last chat I could see is 
on 11 February 2023. But this is regarding a statement request, and not about cancelling his 
direct debit. Virgin Money have said that Mr W didnt contact them prior to 20 April 2023 to 
cancel his direct debit, so Im persuaded that they were unaware that he wanted the direct 
debit to be cancelled even though the third party direct debit provider told him they would 
take no further payments. 
Its likely that Mr W thought that the confirmation from the direct debit provider was enough 
that they wouldnt try to take a payment again. And I can understand if he felt this way, after 
all, they told him they wouldnt be taking any further payment. But the evidence suggests the 
company didnt contact Virgin Money about this, or cancel it on their side like they set out on 
the email to Mr W. I say this because unlike a standing order where Virgin Money would be 
responsible for paying the funds to the recipient, with a direct debit, the company requests 
payment from Virgin Money. So if the third party company had cancelled the direct debit on 
their end, then there would be no reason for them to keep asking Virgin Money for the 
payment.
So although Mr W believes that Virgin Money are in the wrong for what happened here, Ive 
not seen any evidence to suggest they were aware Mr W wanted to cancel the direct debit 
prior to when he informed them he wanted this cancelled on 20 April 2023. As a result, I 
cant say that Virgin Money made an error. So it follows I dont require Virgin Money to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman