DRN-3878037
The complaint
Mrs T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc defaulted her loan after agreeing a payment 
pause.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 5 December 2022. This is what I said:
What happened
Mrs T had a loan with HSBC and, in 2020, her new business was severely impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs T found herself in a difficult financial situation without income or 
government financial support.  
As she couldnt make her loan repayments, Mrs T contacted HSBC in March 2020. HSBC 
agreed a short payment holiday and asked Mrs T to contact them when this concluded. 
However, because of her increasingly difficult situation, Mrs T didnt feel able to call HSBC or 
make any payments. 
HSBC sent Mrs T statements and arrears letters; however, Mrs T didnt respond or pay. On 
31 December 2020, HSBC sent Mrs T a default notice letter advising her that her loan was 
overdue by £1,877.04 and this needed to be repaid by 20 January 2021.
Mrs T called HSBC on 15 January 2021, to discuss her difficult financial situation and the 
arrears that had built up. Mrs T was very concerned about her credit file and gained the 
impression that HSBC were helping her by pausing her loan. However, accepting they 
couldve been clearer, HSBC say they agreed a 6-month Long-Term No Affordability Plan 
(LTNA) which didnt change the collections process and still meant a Default Notice/Final 
Demand would be issued if the arrears werent paid. HSBC subsequently sent demand 
letters in March 2021 and defaulted Mrs Ts account at the end of May 2021.
As Mrs T thought a pause was in place, she was shocked at HSBCs action and thought they 
had reneged on the plan. Mrs T complained to HSBC, however they said they hadnt agreed 
a pause and had followed the correct procedure to repay the outstanding amounts owed.
Mrs T complained to our service as she felt it was clear from the 15 January 2021 call 
recording that HSBC had agreed to pause her loan. Our investigator thought HSBC could 
have been clearer but didnt uphold the complaint. This is because she thought HSBCs 
default action was reasonable considering the arrears.  
As Mrs T remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, for the following reasons, 
I have come to a different view to the investigator and I intend to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
As Mrs T was severely impacted by Covid-19, I first considered the support offered by HSBC 
together with business guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The FCA said that customers could have payment holidays for a period of up to three 
months and the business could agree to this twice. Therefore, had Mrs T contacted HSBC 
after the short breathing space they gave her in March 2020, she wouldve received further 
support for the period April to August 2020. 
Furthermore, a third set of guidance issued by the FCA explained that consumers who had 
had two lots of three month payment holidays but whom might still be experiencing financial 
difficulty because of the impact of Covid-19, should continue to be given ongoing financial 
assistance by credit providers, such as HSBC, following the end of the second three month 
payment holiday. 
So, had Mrs T contacted HSBC prior to 30 December 2020, it is likely she wouldve been in 
a different position and, rather than being in arrears by 9 months, she wouldve been on a 
payment plan and not discussing a default. 
As Mrs Ts vulnerability contributed to her not contacting HSBC, I considered whether HSBC 
shouldve changed its position when Mrs T made contact on 15 January 2021. Also, if it was 
reasonable for Mrs T to request a payment plan.
Although by her own admission Mrs T shouldve made contact with HSBC, considering both 
the FCA guidance and Mrs T vulnerability, I think HSBC should have given consideration to 
both the arrears and default and looked at a new plan with significantly reduced arrears. In 
addition, the 30 December 2020 letter stated we may: demand immediate repayment which 
suggests flexibility.
So, on this basis I think it was reasonable for Mrs T to ask for a plan and, once aware of her 
circumstances and vulnerability, I wouldve expected HSBC to have reduced some of the 
arrears and looked at a way of preventing a default.  
When speaking to HSBC on 15 January 2021, Mrs T was apologetic and she became 
emotional when describing her vulnerable position. When Mrs T asked for a plan, I found 
that the HSBC representative reacted in a sensitive, helpful, and supportive way. This 
included when Mrs T spoke about her anxiety over a default and how she couldnt allow this 
to happen. Although Mrs T said she didnt have the money to pay the arrears, she 
mentioned that as a last resort, parental support was available. Also, when a conversation 
ensued about a plan, Mrs T said she could afford £100 or more per month and wanted to 
start paying her debt. 
The HSBC representative offered a LTNA plan. However, critically, she spoke about a pause 
and when offering this, didnt explain that by not addressing the arrears this plan would result 
in a default. In addition, the representative said it could potentially effect Mrs Ts credit 
score. 
So, although HSBC didnt say the default would be lifted, Mrs T was given the impression 
that she was being given a 6-month pause on her loan which would avoid a default. 
Furthermore, as Mrs T believed the representative had saved her from a default, Mrs T 
expressed such relief and gratitude that the call concluded with an emotional exchange. In 
this exchange, Mrs T praised the representative who seemed to acknowledge the help she 
had given. So, I found it difficult to understand why the representative didnt at this stage 
reset Mrs Ts expectations.Considering the representatives reaction, comments and on call referral, another possibility, 
which I think more likely, is that the representative made an error and thought she was 
preventing default action. Although it is not possible to know the representatives thinking, I 
have to conclude that she ultimately failed to clarify matters. Had Mrs T been fully informed 
about what she was agreeing to  Im satisfied its more likely than not that she would have 
taken steps to avoid the default being registered here.
I can understand why HSBC thought it was unlikely that Mrs T could avoid a default on the 
loan and offered an LTNA plan. However, because of Mrs Ts above-mentioned comments 
about avoiding a default and possible family support Im not persuaded that this was a 
certainty. Also, Mrs T said she was getting some income and by June 2021 she was back in 
full time employment.
Furthermore, I think HSBC shouldve taken note of Mrs Ts circumstances and the FCA 
guidance mentioned above, to look at a different plan, especially as Mrs T made such a 
proposal and only had a brief payment pause.
Finally, I looked at the HSBC letters of 18 and 20 January 2021, to see if these clarified 
matters. However, I cant see that they did. This is because they would have arrived only a 
few days after she believed a 6-month pause was in place, the wording suggested she didnt 
need to speak to HSBC until after 6 months and neither letter was explicit about the LTNA. 
So, although the letter 20 January 2021 did refer to default action, I can understand why Mrs 
T didnt think it applied in the individual circumstances here.
So, considering the above, although it wasnt HSBCs fault that Mrs T had not contacted 
them to let them know of her circumstances, once they found out on 15 January 2021, I dont 
think it was fair or reasonable for HSBC to continue with the same arrears and default plan. 
Also, HSBC misled her when offering an LTNA plan.
I think HSBC shouldve followed FCA guidance, addressed some of her arrears and offered 
an alternative payment plan that would have enabled her to make either reduced or full 
payments from January 2021. Im persuaded that had they done so Mrs T wouldve avoided 
a default.
So, HSBC should remove any adverse information recorded between January and May 
2021 including the default, and if the loan hasnt been paid in full agree a way forward with 
Mrs T in terms of payments. 
In addition, to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused during a period of 
vulnerability HSBC should pay Mrs T £250 compensation. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint. 
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
 remove any adverse information recorded between January and May 2021 including 
the default;
 if the loan hasnt been paid in full, agree a way forward with Mrs T in terms of 
payments, and;
 pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenienceIll look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 2 January 2023. 
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the 
deadline.
Mrs T responded to say she was in agreement with the above provisional decision. Mrs T 
said that she has never disputed the amount she owes HSBC, merely the fact that I was put 
in default when I genuinely was led to believe I was on a payment break. Mrs T added that 
HSBCs actions had caused her two years of extreme anxiety.
HSBC said, While we accept that the lack of clarity in our call warrants compensation, we 
cant agree that removing the Default is correct. And, to support this statement, HSBC 
submitted further information and consideration points, which I address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC disagree with my provisional decision to lift the default, I first considered the 
following points which they raise:
 HSBC said Whilst all customers were guaranteed to receive the initial 3-month 
payment holiday, there was no guarantee they would receive an extension. This was very 
much dependant on their circumstances. In all cases they had to apply for an additional 
extension. 
Im satisfied that Mrs T had characteristics of vulnerability according to the FCA guidance on 
this topic. And, Im persuaded Mrs Ts vulnerability during an unprecedented global 
pandemic led to her not contacting HSBC. So, although I accept there was no guarantee Mrs 
T wouldve received a payment holiday or extensions, when considering her particular 
circumstances, I still think it wouldve been unlikely for any bank to have not followed the 
FCA guidance here. Also, I considered available information on Mrs Ts payment record prior 
to the pandemic.
 HSBC said Even if our representative was unclear on the call, receipt of this letter 
corrects that position. If she felt the information in our letter was contradictory, she couldve 
immediately contacted us to check.
I listened to the call again and, rather than a lack of clarity, I still think it likely that the HSBC 
representative made an error and thought she was preventing default action. 
I looked again at the HSBC letters of 18 and 20 January 2021, to see if these clarified 
matters. However, I cant see that they did. This is because they would have arrived only a 
few days after she believed a 6-month pause was in place, the wording suggested she didnt 
need to speak to HSBC until after 6 months and neither letter was explicit about the LTNA. 
Mrs T has said she was under the impression there was a 6-month payment holiday and she 
didnt need to take any further action until July 2022. Also, that she thought the letters pre-
dated her call. So, although the letter 20 January 2021 did refer to default action, I can 
understand why Mrs T didnt think it applied in the individual circumstances here.
 HSBC pointed out that no payments had been received since June 2021 and questioned the mention of family support. Also, current affordability to pay the loan 
considering Mrs T is close to the limit of her overdraft facility. In addition, HSBC say the debt 
owed at default was £6,465.36 whereas the debt passed to debt collection was £5,349.09. 
Regarding the lack of payment since the default, in Mrs Ts submission she says there has 
been a lack of contact from HSBC and, because of her complaint to our service, a debt 
department stated her account would be on hold. I cant see any information on file which 
contradicts this and Im persuaded from reviewing the file and listening to calls that Mrs T 
has always intended to repay her debt and, to avoid a default, would have requested family 
support.
Regarding current affordability, as stated in my provisional decision, Mrs T has been back in 
employment since June 2021. Also, Mrs T has submitted information on her regular salary 
payments, more stable financial position and management of her finances including use of a 
flexible pre-agreed overdraft facility. So, Mrs T is confident she can make the HSBC loan 
repayments and avoid falling back into arrears and has consistently stated she is committed 
to paying what she owes to avoid a detrimental default.   
So, thinking about everything again and considering the above responses, I still dont think 
HSBC have treated Mrs T fairly here.
As stated in my provisional decision, I think it likely that the HSBC representative made an 
error and either thought she was preventing default action or failed to clarify matters. And, 
this had serious consequences, as it resulted in Mrs T being misled and unable to take steps 
to avoid the default being registered. Also, whilst I recognise the arrears and communication 
gap, I dont think HSBC took into account Mrs Ts vulnerability together with the FCA 
guidance to consider an alternative payment plan. This wouldve enabled her to make either 
reduced or full payments from January 2021 which wouldve also avoided a default.
Putting things right
Finally, I further considered the award for distress and inconvenience together with Mrs Ts 
desire to bring this complaint to a conclusion. And, I think the compensation amount stated 
in the provisional decision to be fair and reasonable. 
So, HSBC should remove any adverse information recorded between January and May 
2021, including the default, and agree a way forward with Mrs T in terms of payments. 
In addition, to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused during a period of 
vulnerability HSBC should pay Mrs T £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
 remove any adverse information recorded between January and May 2021 including 
the default;
 agree a way forward with Mrs T in terms of payments, and;
 pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenienceUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman