DRN-3272193
The complaint
Mrs Ks complained that Markel International Insurance Company Limited (Markel) unfairly 
declined her claim when jewellery disappeared from her security box.
What happened
Mrs K owned a number of valuable items of jewellery.  She was concerned about storing 
them at home.  So she arranged to rent a security box at a local secure storage facility.  
Because of the value of the jewellery, Mrs K also bought an insurance policy from Markel.
Just under a year later, Mrs K visited the facility to collect something from her security box.  
When she opened the box, she found her jewellery was missing.  She reported this to the 
facilitys manager and the police.  And she made a claim under her insurance policy.
Markel investigated Mrs Ks claim but declined it.  Their investigations didnt establish how 
the jewellery had been taken from the box.  So Markel categorised the loss as unexplained.  
And they said that mysterious disappearance and unexplained loss werent covered under 
the policy.
Mrs K wasnt happy with Markels decision and complained.  She instructed solicitors, who 
said the loss wasnt unexplained, but was due to the negligence of the secure facility.  
Markel responded, saying theyd made their position clear.  And theyd continued to 
investigate to see if they could identify how the jewellery had disappeared.  But theyd not 
found any evidence to say the loss was anything other than mysterious/unexplained.
Mrs K wasnt satisfied with Markels response and her representative brought her complaint 
to us.  Our investigator considered it and didnt think Markel needed to do anything more to 
resolve it.  She explained we cant decide whos liable for Mrs Ks loss.  Rather, our role is to 
decide whether Markels decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable  which she 
concluded it was.
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand why Mrs Ks upset.  Shes lost a substantial amount of jewellery, even after she 
took steps to keep it safe.  And I can see why shed find it hard to understand how the items 
have disappeared.
But, as our investigator explained, I cant decide what happened  or who was responsible.  
So I cant say  as Mrs Ks representative has  that the storage facility must be liable for the 
loss.
My role is to decide whether Markels decision to decline her claim was fair and reasonable.  
Ive started by looking at the policy wording.
The policy sets out what is  and isnt  covered.  The relevant clause says:
We will not cover any damage caused by:
Mysterious Disappearance and Unexplained Loss.
I dont think that phrase needs any clarification.  
But that doesnt mean Markel shouldnt investigate the circumstances of the disappearance.  
So Ive looked at what they did to try and find out what had happened.
I can see both Markel and Mrs K instructed locksmiths to examine the security boxes.  The 
locksmiths agreed there was no evidence the box had been forced open or otherwise 
tampered with.  And Markel instructed a claims adjuster, who contacted the police officers to 
whom the disappearance had been reported, interviewed Mrs K and the manager of the 
facility and reviewed the facilitys records and CCTV footage.  The claims adjuster 
concluded:
there is no evidence to support that the loss may be attributable to theft either by 
deception or violent and forcible means but must be considered as an Unexplained Loss or 
Mysterious Disappearance.
Im satisfied from this report that Markel did take reasonable steps to investigate before 
concluding the jewellerys disappearance fell within the exclusion.  So they dont need to do 
any more to resolve this part of Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs Ks representative has suggested Markel should pay Mrs Ks claim and try to recover 
the cost from the storage facility, which he says is responsible for the loss.  Ive thought 
about this.  But I dont think its fair to say Markel should do that.
As our investigator said, the policy doesnt provide any cover for legal costs.  Neither does it 
provide for Markel to take over and conduct any claim Mrs K might have against the storage 
facility.  
Im satisfied Markel applied the policy terms fairly and reasonably to Mrs Ks claim.  It 
wouldnt be fair for me to say they should do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint about Markel 
International Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman