DRN-3020646
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that JAJA Finance Ltd (JAJA) applied interest to his credit card balance 
transfer when he had been offered 0% for 18 months on a balance transfer. He incurred 
several months of interest and inconvenience sorting it out.   
 
What happened
Mr H rang JAJA regarding a balance transfer in October 2020. During that call he was 
offered a 0% introductory rate for 18 months on a balance transfer. He accepted this offer 
and proceeded to transfer his credit card balance to JAJA. 
When he received his November statement, Mr H saw that an interest rate of 18.3% had 
been applied to the balance transfer and so he rang up to complain. He was advised that 
JAJA would review the call and the mistake would be rectified. He heard nothing further and 
so he rang again on 23 November and 18 December 2020.  After receiving another 
statement with interest added on 21 December 2021 Mr H logged a formal complaint.  He 
was told that his complaint would be escalated. 
Mr H rang again on 5 January 2021 having heard nothing. Mr H also raised his complaint 
with us. 
On 12 January 2021 JAJA issued their first final response. They upheld the complaint and 
issued a refund of interest of £40.14 for November and December. They also advised they 
had referred the account to the promotions department to review the account and make 
adjustments. 
Mr H rang again on 25 January 2021 as his January statement again showed interest and 
logged a further complaint on 20 February 2021. 
In April 2021 JAJA sent a further response to Mr H upholding his second complaint. They 
refunded further interest that had been charged for January and February and applied the 
interest free period for the balance transfer as originally offered as a gesture of goodwill.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. He thought that although JAJA had 
now refunded the interest and had put the interest free period in place, they had significantly 
inconvenienced Mr H for several months, and they should pay him £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
JAJA disagreed with our investigators view. They thought that having refunded the interest 
and provided the 0% facility for the remaining 15 months was sufficient. The case has 
therefore come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I have viewed all of the correspondence, and also Mr Hs testimony. 
JAJA have said that Mr H was misadvised on the telephone in his initial call, as there were 
no promotional offers at 0% on balance transfers at the time. 
Having acknowledged that this advice was wrong, JAJA consider that offering the facility that 
was originally offered and refunding all interest accrued is sufficient.
I accept that these steps taken by JAJA are sufficient to put Mr H back in the position he 
would have been in if the incorrect advice had not been given. However, this offer doesnt 
compensate Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused by the incorrect advice and the 
time and trouble caused by several months of trying to sort it out. It is notable that even after 
the initial final response was issued to Mr H, further interest continued to be charged, and Mr 
H had to make a further complaint. 
I therefore agree with the investigator that JAJA should pay Mr H an additional £150 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused by the mistake.
Putting things right
 JAJA should pay £150 to Mr H for the trouble and upset he experienced. 
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct JAJA Finance Ltd to make the 
payment to Mr H detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman