DRN-3267205
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc allowed unauthorised payments on his debit card 
and didnt progress his chargeback claim. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events. 
Mr R says that he made one initial payment on his debit card in July 2019 to a merchant Ill 
refer to as T. Mr R says T are a fraudulent company who operate a scam. He says that 
significant further unauthorised payments were taken over the following few weeks. These 
totalled around £100,000 and Mr R said he only noticed these when he later checked his 
account. 
Mr R reported this to Barclays who raised a chargeback and issued temporary credits to his 
account. The chargeback was defended and ultimately Barclays took back the temporary 
credits. Barclays didnt agree the payments were unauthorised. Mr R complained. Barclays 
accepted there had been some service failings and offered £200 compensation but 
maintained their position in relation to the disputed transactions. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. He thought Barclays had acted fairly in the circumstances. Mr R disagrees 
and has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for similar reasons. Ill explain why. 
I dont find Mr Rs testimony to be credible, the conflicting evidence is compelling. Im 
satisfied the payments were authorised for the following reasons:
Barclays stopped one of the payments and received a text message response from 
Mr Rs phone confirming the payment to be genuine. 
T have provided online chats between themselves and Mr R where he discusses his 
losing trades.
Mr Rs statements show incoming payments of significant amounts without which 
there wouldnt have been available funds for the subsequent debit card payments. 
Mr R had logged in to his online banking around the time the disputed transactions 
took place, but he didnt report them to Barclays until much later. 
Im also not persuaded that T are operating a scam as Mr R alleges. My reasons for this are:
T were and are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Im aware there 
have been occasions where T have been impersonated, but Im satisfied Mr R was 
dealing with the genuine T because the chargeback defence came from them.
T made two payments back into Mr Rs account, around £17,000 on 19 August 2019 
and around £14,000 on 23 August 2019. If T werent a genuine firm, its unlikely they 
would have returned such significant amounts. 
So as Im satisfied there was no scam here, I dont need to further consider whether 
Barclays ought to have intervened in any of the payments. Banks have obligations to be alert 
to fraud, but they have no obligations to prevent bad bargains or to provide investment 
advice. 
When Mr R disputed the payments, Barclays raised a chargeback. This was defended by T 
who provided compelling evidence to support their position. This included copies of Mr Rs 
identification and numerous online chats within the relevant time period between their staff 
and Mr R. It made clear the types of trading services they offer and where theyd highlighted 
the risks to Mr R. The contact details such as address and email address match those that 
Mr R has provided to our service. Based on this evidence, I think Barclays concluding that 
there wasnt a reasonable prospect of a chargeback succeeding was fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate there were some service issues surrounding the receipt of an email and 
promises for phone calls. For completeness, I find the £200 compensation that Barclays 
offered to be fair in these circumstances. I dont think there is any reasonable basis upon 
which I could tell Barclays they need to reimburse Mr R for any of the disputed payments or 
to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman