DRN-3040292
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MBFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law says we should consider whether a car has been durable 
when we consider whether it has been of satisfactory quality and it says the quality of goods 
is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
MBFS say that as the first problem was referred to them after more than a year the faults 
that have developed subsequently arent likely to have been present when the car was 
supplied: the point at which they were responsible for the quality of the car.
But, as Ive explained, the relevant legislation asks us to consider durability when we think 
about whether goods are of satisfactory quality. I dont think this car has been durable. I say 
that because I dont think a reasonable person would consider a brand-new car to be 
durable if, as is the case here, it had been referred back to the dealership so frequently.     
Mr D has provided evidence the car was returned on several occasions for problems with the 
retractable roof mechanism; a rattling from the door and a broken seat frame. The roof 
mechanism issue clearly remained unresolved for over a year.
So, I think this car hasnt been of satisfactory quality and MBFS should therefore have 
allowed Mr D to reject it.
Putting things right
Mr D decided to voluntarily terminate his agreement with MBFS so theres no longer an 
agreement to end or a car to return.
But in order to terminate his agreement Mr D was required to pay end of contract fees of 
£1,180 that he wouldnt have needed to pay had MBFS allowed him to reject the car. So, I 
think MBFS should refund that money and theyll need to add interest to the refund as Mr D 
has been deprived of it.
Theyll also need to refund any deposit that Mr D has paid. I dont accept that the deposit 
should be refunded in part, as this services usual approach in hire purchase agreements is 
to ask the business to refund the whole deposit. Interest will also need to be added to this 
refund as Mr D has been deprived of the money.
Mr D has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to take his car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and Im persuaded that issues he did report were often not 
satisfactorily resolved. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved earlier and it must have been distressing to be stranded when the 
car roof failed to fully retract. MBFS have already offered to pay Mr D £150 because they 
didnt keep him mobile on a couple of occasions. Taking all of the circumstances into 
account I think they should pay a further £150 compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience their actions have caused.
Mr D experienced a loss of use of the car as it was regularly taken back to the dealership. In 
respect of that loss of use I would agree with the investigator that MBFS should refund a 
monthly instalment of £700 and they should also refund Mr Ds January and February 
payments of 2021 as hed asked to reject the car and had stopped using it due to the 
persistent problems hed experienced. Interest will also need to be added to these refunds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
show the agreement as ended on Mr Ds credit file and remove any adverse reports 
that may have been made to his credit file in relation to these issues;
refund any deposit Mr D may have paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund the £1,180 end of contract fees and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund £700 in respect of the loss of use Mr D has experienced and add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;refund the January and February 2021 finance instalments, also in respect of loss of 
use, and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
pay an additional £150 compensation on top of the £150 theyve already paid in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience Mr D has experienced.
HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from interest payments. 
MBFS must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman