DRN-3963445
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds valuation of their car following a 
claim they made on their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their policy with UKI when their car was involved in an 
accident. UKI deemed the car a total loss and valued it at £1,000. Mr and Mrs W didnt 
accept its offer and after some discussion, UKI increased its valuation to £2,000. 
Mr and Mrs W still didnt think its offer was fair and brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She reviewed the adverts 
provided by both parties and said generally final sales prices will be lower than the 
advertised prices. Our investigator said based on the adverts provided and in the absence of 
guidance from the motor valuation guides, she thought UKIs offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept our investigators view, they said the adverts UKI relied on were 
for an older model. They thought the advert UKI excluded for £3,495 was the only one of the 
same model as their car. 
In response, UKIs engineer said there was corrosion on the wheel arch of Mr and Mrs Ws 
car, which they did not make a deduction for. They thought the car advert for £3,495 was an 
outlier and said the car advertised had about half the mileage of Mr and Mrs Ws car. 
Our investigator still thought its offer was fair, and as an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons, 
Ill explain why. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual car is. We look at 
whether the insurer has applied the terms of the policy correctly and taken reasonable steps 
to ensure a fair valuation was reached. Under the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy, UKI must 
pay them the market value of the car at the time of the loss.
The market value is defined in the policy as: 
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model, and of a similar 
age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Mr and Mrs W dont think UKIs offer is sufficient to replace their car or to get it fixed  and 
back on the road. The valuation of a used car isnt an exact science, and its standard 
practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a 
car. And its not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuations the guides give are based on 
national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale 
at the time of loss. We usually find the valuation guides more reliable than individual adverts 
which can vary vastly in price.
That said, adverts have their place, as occasionally we find the guides arent able to provide 
a valuation for a car, but this is usually when the car is rare or a limited edition, and there are 
few examples available on the market, as is the case here. UKI said it consulted valuation 
guides but due to the age of Mr and Mrs s car and the fact its an import, it couldnt obtain a 
valuation from the guides. Our investigator also carried out her own research using the 
guides and found they couldnt calculate a value for the car. When that happens, I think its 
reasonable for an insurer to consider adverts for similar cars available on the market. 
UKI provided evidence of the adverts it relied on in its calculations. These were priced at 
£1,995, £2,000, and £3,495. It thought the advert for £3,495 was out of line with the other 
adverts it found, so it excluded this from its calculations. It said the car for £1,995 was newer 
and had a significantly lower mileage than Mr and Mrs Ws car did. It also said the advert for 
£2,000 while a year older, had around 60,000 miles less on the engine than Mr and Mrs Ws 
car. And it thinks the lower mileage offset the fact the car was a year older. Ive looked at the 
adverts it provided, and I dont think what its said is unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs W said their car was the injection model and replaced the older carburettor 
model. They said the advert UKI relied on were for the older model, so they dont think they 
are a fair comparison. But, when a car is as rare as Mr and Mrs Ws car was, I dont think its 
unreasonable for UKI to consider adverts for close alternatives as its done here. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W dont think its fair to exclude the advert for £3,495 from 
calculations, because they say its the only advert UKI had for a car of the same model as 
theirs. UKI said this car had around half the number of miles on its odometer compared to Mr 
and Mrs Ws and had no damage to it. UKI says it identified rust on the wheel arch of Mr and 
Mrs Ws car, which it didnt make a deduction for. So, even if it were to include this advert in 
its calculations, I dont think Mr and Mrs W could reasonably expect to sell their car at a 
similar price. This is because, while I accept Mr and Mrs Ws car had a full service history 
and had passed its MOT test just prior to the incident. I think the condition of the body and 
the 168,000 miles it had on the engine, are likely to be things a potential buyer would 
consider when comparing it with a similar car with a lower mileage and in better condition. 
Mr and Mrs W also provided examples of similar cars for sale. These were priced at £2,800, 
£14,950, £1,250. However, I find the car advertised for £14,950 significantly out of line with 
the other adverts Ive seen, so I think its reasonable to exclude this from calculations. Ive 
also considered the car priced at £1,250, but as Mr and Mrs W said, I find this car was of a 
lesser condition than theirs, so I think its fair to also discount this from calculations. That 
leaves the advert for £2,800. However, I note this was also a year newer and had around 
half the number of miles on its engine as Mr and Mrs Ws car did.  
I think its also important to consider that often advertised prices allow room for negotiations, 
and cars may sell for less than advertised. All things considered, Im satisfied UKI carried out 
a fair valuation of Mr and Mrs Ws car. Taking into consideration its age, mileage, and 
condition, I find UKIs valuation of £2,000 was fair and reasonable. So, I dont think it needs 
to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned, Ive decided I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman