DRN-2052071
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Ltds agent handled a claim under her motor 
breakdown insurance. She says the agent took too long to establish her breakdown location 
which meant she was forced to use a recovery company provided by the Police instead 
which cost her £150. Mrs P would like the £150 refunded to her.
What happened
On 22 August 2019 Mrs Ps car broke down on an entry slip to a main road.
According to the agents notes Mrs P contacted them at 18:05 to tell them what had
happened. The call out was agreed at around 18:18 and the agent spent the next few
minutes sourcing a recovery operator to help Mrs P.
At 18:27 the job was accepted by one of the agents recovery operators as a priority and the
notes say that a 60-minute estimated time of arrival was texted to Mrs P around 18:29.
Mrs Ps invoice for the Police recovery showed that the recovery company used by the
Police logged the job on 22 August 2019 at 18:28.
The agents notes recorded at 18:31 explain there was some confusion about whether Mrs P
was in a live lane or on the hard shoulder. And Ageass agent has told us that it was
around 18:48 they established the location.
Ageass agent has told us that at 19:02 Mrs P called to cancel the recovery. Notes at 19:18
say the agent called Mrs P to see if she needed the assistance, but Mrs P had said shed got
the car going.
Our investigators conclusions were that Mrs Ps complaint should not be upheld because
they thought Ageass agent had made reasonable attempts to recover the car and it was
unlikely the recovery operator would have arrived any more quickly had the confusion with
the location not happened. They also said it was unlikely they would have arrived before the
Police and that the Police had said the location of the breakdown was too dangerous for Mrs
P to remain there.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigator. She maintained the delay had cost her financially and 
suggested the Police had also tried to describe the location (to Ageas or its agents) without 
success. 
The case was passed to me to decide and I issued my provisional findings to explain why I 
didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. Ive summarised my findings below. 
Provisional findings 
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
I noted Mrs Ps cover included an exclusions section which did not cover: The 
charges of any other company (including Police recovery) other than the recovery 
operator, a car hire agency or accommodation charges which have been authorised 
by us.  
I said it was therefore fair to say Police recovery costs were not automatically 
included with Mrs Ps cover. And there was nothing in the submissions from either 
Mrs P or Ageas about their exchanges on 22 August 2020 to show there was any 
agreement the Police recovery costs would be paid for by Ageas. Mrs P said the 
Police told her Ageas would cover the costs. But I explained this wasnt a decision for 
the Police to make as Mrs Ps contract of insurance was with Ageas. And there was 
no record of any discussion with Ageas about covering the Police costs, which I 
would have expected to see if there had been any such discussion. 
I thought it was fair to say Ageas had struggled to find Mrs Ps location. And that the 
time taken to work out where Mrs P was between 18:27 (when the recovery operator 
was appointed) and 18:48 (when Ageas say they were able to confirm Mrs Ps 
location with her). So establishing Mrs Ps whereabouts took around 21 minutes. 
However, I didnt think this delay made any difference in these circumstances 
because:
oI thought the Police were already on the scene before any real discussion 
was had about Mrs Ps location. This was because the recovery company 
used by the Police logged the job at 18:28  a minute after Ageass agent 
arranged a recovery operator. 
oThe Police considered the location of Mrs Ps breakdown to be dangerous  
evidenced as the Police arrived there within a relatively short space of time. 
And Mrs P was with a young child, so I thought it fair to say it wasnt safe for 
Mrs P to remain where she was for longer than necessary  particularly as I 
was mindful this was also weekday commuting-time. 
oAgeass agent prioritised the call out straightaway, and in-line with their 
priority times, had until 19:27 to reach Mrs P. But Mrs P cancelled the call out 
before the time had expired. Ageass submissions are the call out was 
cancelled at 19:04. And by this time Mrs P had already spent around an hour 
in what was being considered as a dangerous location. 
I concluded it was now difficult to know how long it wouldve taken Ageass agent to 
reach Mrs P  there could have been delays due to traffic for example. Or whether 
the delay in locating Mrs P really made the difference Mrs P said it did, as its also 
arguable the recovery operator was on route in Mrs Ps general direction while they 
worked out exactly where she was. 
And overall, I said it was clear Mrs Ps car was in a dangerous spot and the Police 
were keen to move her on for the safety of everyone. I noted Ageass difficulty in 
establishing Mrs Ps location undoubtedly caused her upset at an already stressful 
time (which Ageas recognised by offering Mrs P £25). But I thought Ageass agent 
followed their process and prioritised Mrs Ps case. And the policy sets out Police 
recovery costs are excluded under the cover.   I said, if not already paid, it was up to Mrs P if she wished to approach Ageas directly 
to see if they would still be prepared to offer her the £25. But I made no direction that 
Ageas must pay this. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Ageas didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs P replied to say there should be further investigation. She said she pays for the 
breakdown cover, but they didnt come and so she had to waste money as the Police said 
the car had to be moved. Mrs P said she couldnt afford to spend money like this. 
Mrs P didnt provide any further evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Ps additional comments and I do understand her frustration with whats 
happened as I appreciate Mrs P had an expectation when she took out this breakdown cover 
that she would be protected in this situation. 
However, as Ive explained above, the insurance excludes Police recovery costs, and 
Ageass agent had arranged for a recovery operator to attend her - so the cover was working 
as it should have done under the terms of the insurance. Its unfortunate that the place Mrs P 
broke down was deemed to be unsafe by the Police so it was important to move Mrs P on. 
Ageas had already prioritised the call, so I think they had done as much as they could have 
done in the circumstances. And as Ive explained already, I dont think the delay in locating 
Mrs P impacted what happened in the way Mrs P has suggested.
As I said, I know this wont be easy for Mrs P, but as there is no new evidence or 
submissions for me to consider, I dont see any reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mrs Ps complaint is not upheld. And I make 
no award against Ageas Insurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman