DRN-2906763
The complaint
Miss K complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund her a transaction she disputes to 
having made. 
What happened
In October 2020, a payment of £5 was debited from Miss Ks Monzo account. This 
transaction was made to a charity organisation. Later, that same day, Miss K contacted 
Monzo using its chat service to say she hadnt made this payment. 
Miss K told Monzo she hadnt left her house the entire day, and she was in possession of 
her debit card. Miss K explained she had made a payment to the charity two days ago when 
she was in London. Miss K doesnt live in London but often travels there.  
Monzo said it wouldnt refund the transaction based on the timeline of events and the 
evidence it has available. Monzo added it could not understand how somebody other than 
Miss K made this transaction.  
Unhappy with what Monzo said, Miss K complained. In its final response, Monzo said it was 
unable to overturn the original outcome. It had reason to believe the transaction wasnt 
fraudulent and so it didnt have to refund it. Monzo reiterated that based on the timeline, and 
evidence available, it wasnt possible for anybody other than Miss K to have authorised the 
transaction.  
Miss K then referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the 
matter. In summary they found: 
Monzo had shown the transaction was authorised as the card was physically 
presented for a contactless payment 
Theres no objective evidence to show the transaction was fraudulent and carried out 
by somebody else
 
If someone else had taken the card without Miss Ks permission, then our 
investigator would have expected more attempts to spend money. As there were no 
further attempts to use the card, this isnt usual fraudulent behaviour
There was no accounting for why, or how, someone would take and then return the 
card to Miss K without her realising
Amongst other things, Miss K and her partner were dissatisfied with not having seen the 
evidence our investigator relied on. They maintained they were not in London on the day of 
the disputed transaction, and they didnt leave their home. 
It follows I must now decide this matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Miss K, so Ill explain why. 
Generally, Monzo can hold Miss K liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not, she made or authorised it herself.  
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence Miss Ks genuine card was used to make the 
disputed transaction. I say that because Monzo has given me records which show the card 
number used, that it was a contactless transaction, and a chip was present. 
Monzo have also given me a screenshot of its internal systems which is headed 
Authorization Request. Against where its says Auth Decision Type it says 
purchase.contactless_mchip. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Monzo 
to hold Miss K liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not Miss K consented to the £5 contactless payment being made.
Miss K says she never left her house on the day the disputed transaction was debited from 
her account - so she could not have carried it out. Miss K made a £10 donation to the same 
charity cause two days prior. She says she did so in her local town. I note Miss K uses her 
Monzo account quite a bit, and relatively speaking £5 is a nominal amount. Miss K adds that 
this complaint isnt about the money  but the principle of Monzo safeguarding her money 
and making payments only with her authorisation. 
Where matters arent clear or there isnt conclusive evidence, I can make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Ive already said that Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen the genuine card was used. 
Ive also seen a screenshot of Monzos system which shows the time and date the 
transaction was presented to Monzo for authorisation. They were on the same day as when 
the payment was debited from Miss Ks account. 
So, for this transaction to have taken place without Miss Ks knowledge someone would 
have taken the card without her realising, carried out the transaction, and then returned it to 
Miss K within a few minutes. I say that because Monzos records show the payment was 
presented to it at 16:45 for authorisation and its chat records with Miss K, when she reported 
the issue, starts at 16:49. 
If someone was attempting to defraud Miss K, then its most likely they would have 
maximised any spending opportunity and not just pay a charity and then return the card. So I 
think its most likely either Miss K carried out the transaction, or someone she authorised did. 
I note Miss K argues this payment was carried out in London  and she wasnt in London 
that day, so it could not have been her. But I dont think I can place much weight on that as 
the payment two days earlier which Miss K says she did make to the same charity cause 
also shows as London on the statement. But Miss K says she carried that out in her local 
town. 
I think both payments likely show on the statement, and on Monzos records, to a charity 
based in London because thats the main registered address for it - regardless of what town 
the payment was made in physically. Its possible, given the nominal amount and it showing us having taken place in London, 
caused some confusion. But from all the information, which Ive carefully reviewed, I think its 
more likely than not Miss K, or someone she authorised, carried out the transaction.  
In reaching this conclusion, and against the backdrop of her banking activity, I have found it 
difficult to understand why Miss K would dispute such a relatively small payment and do so 
within a few minutes of it being debited. So I have very little reason to question Miss Ks 
version of events. But I must place appropriate weight on all the evidence that is available to 
me. 
Having done that, the evidence shows the genuine card was present and its chip read. And 
as the payment could equally have taken place more locally, I find Monzo have acted fairly 
and reasonably by holding Miss K liable for it.
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, Ive considered whether this payment may have 
been made a few days before it was presented, and then debited, Miss Ks account. That 
can sometimes happen based on any inherent delays in the banking systems and 
processes. Monzo say nothing like this happened. 
But even if there was a delay of this type, that would still mean the card was present given 
what Monzos internal records show. It could mean though that Miss K may have authorised 
a second payment on top of the £10 she says she did pay the charity. 
Monzo suggested Miss K speak to the charitable organisation and ask them what could have 
happened. Miss K didnt choose to do this, and that of course is her choice. But if theres 
been some error or misunderstanding on that organisations part, they would be best placed 
to resolve it for her.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman