DRN-3875791
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc submitted a chargeback claim when he asked for 
the chargeback to be cancelled. This resulted in a visa application for his wife being revoked, 
which meant they were unable to go on holiday.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr L completed online ESTA visa applications for himself and his wife in 
preparation for a holiday to the USA.
Whilst completing the online applications, Mr L thought his wifes application hadnt gone 
through properly, so he completed it again. Mr L then realised that his wifes first application 
had gone through successfully and that he had, as a result, made the second application 
unnecessarily including paying a second fee. The [payments for Mr Ls visa application and 
both of his wifes applications were taken from Mr KLs credit card on 31 January 2022.
On 3 February 2022 Mr L contacted HSBC to raise a chargeback dispute for the payment 
arising from the second (unnecessary) visa application for his wife. HSBC applied a 
temporary credit to Mr Ls account. 
Mr L contacted HSBC again on 3 February and asked the call handler to put the chargeback 
dispute on hold. The call handler recorded the instructions in the wrong place on the system 
and the chargeback claim progressed and was ultimately successful, with Mr L being 
permanently credited and the claim marked as completed on 13 March 2022.
In May 2022 Mr L received an email from ESTA stating that there was an issue with his 
wifes visa application and that it had been revoked. He says he was told that this was 
because of a chargeback having been applied. Mr L tried to obtain another visa for his wife 
but was unable to do this in time. As a result, Mr L and his wife couldnt go on their holiday.
Mr L complained to HSBC. He said he wanted compensation for the cost of the holiday.
In response, HSBC acknowledged that Mr L had asked for the chargeback to be put on hold. 
It said the call handler had recorded this instruction incorrectly. HSBC offered compensation 
of £25 for this error but said it wouldnt cover the cost of the holiday because ESTA had 
received payment for two visas, and it was only the third visa which has been the subject of 
the chargeback.
Mr L wasnt happy with HSBCs response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that had HSBC not processed the 
chargeback, there was a good chance that the visa application wouldve been accepted, and 
that Mr and Mrs L would have been able to travel. The investigator noted, however, that two 
visa applications and two payments had been submitted to ESTA and that despite the 
chargeback in relation to the third application, there remained a valid application and 
payment for Mrs Ls visa. The investigator thought there may have been an error by ESTA 
when it revoked Mrs Ls visa. The investigator said there was no evidence to show that the 
chargeback was the sole reason for the visa being revoked, and that she couldnt be sure 
that HSBCs error was the only reason why Mr and Mrs L were unable to travel. The 
investigator said it wouldnt be fair to ask HSBC to pay for all of Mr Ls losses, but that HSBC 
should pay further compensation of £250 to Mr L for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr L didnt agree. He felt that HSBC should pay more because ESTA had told him that the 
reason the visa was revoked was because of the chargeback.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that HSBC made an error when the call handler recorded Mr Ls 
instruction to put the chargeback on hold in the wrong place. This meant the chargeback 
went ahead and Mr L was refunded the cost of one visa application.
The real issue here is whether HSBC should be held responsible for Mrs Ls visa being 
revoked and the losses suffered as a result.
I can see from the information provided that HSBC applied the chargeback to one of the two 
payments made in connection with Mrs Ls visa application. So there remained a valid 
application and payment for Mrs Ls visa.
It therefore seems likely that the revocation of Mrs Ls visa was not for reason of non 
payment.
Mr L has said that his wifes visa was revoked because of the chargeback. Ive looked at the 
ESTA guidance. This says that an applicant wont be given a reason for a cancelled 
application. Ive also looked at the email Mr L provided. This states that the reason for denial 
of the visa was because a request was received for a refund of the visa fee.
I dont think the email from ESTA is conclusive evidence that the visa was cancelled 
because of the chargeback. As Ive already said, Mr L made two applications and two 
payments for his wifes visa, so the fact that a request was received by ESTA for the refund 
of one of the visa fees wouldnt have affected the other application. If it was the case that 
ESTA cancelled all of Mrs Ls applications because a refund had been requested in respect 
of one application, then this is an error by ESTA and not something I can fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for.
Ive taken into account whether there were alternative options available to Mr L to obtain a 
visa after the ESTA was revoked. The email from ESTA states that an application can be 
made for a non immigrant visa. I appreciate that Mr L tried to do this but couldnt arrange an 
appointment in time. I appreciate that there may have been delays with visa appointments, 
but this isnt something I can hold HSBC responsible for.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that HSBC made an error when it recorded Mr 
Ls instruction to put the chargeback on hold in the incorrect place. But Im not persuaded 
that there is enough evidence to show that the chargeback in relation to one of the visa 
applications was the sole reason for Mrs Ls ESTA being revoked. So, I cant fairly hold 
HSBC responsible for Mr Ls losses here.
However, I do think HSBC should increase the offer of compensation it has made to Mr L for 
the inconvenience caused by the error.Putting things right
To put things right, HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay further compensation of £250 to Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. HSBC must take the steps Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman