DRN-3273474
The complaint
Mrs M complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible 
for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from mid-September 2020, Mrs M had her car insured on a policy under which 
UKI was responsible for dealing with any claims.
One day in early July 2021, Mrs M was driving her car with two teenage children as 
passengers. Unfortunately, a third party (TP1) in a hatchback car hit the rear of Mrs Ms 
car. TP1s car then hit a second third party (TP2). Police attended the scene.
TP1 and TP2 held Mrs M responsible for causing the accident. Later a further third party 
(TP3) made a claim against Mrs M.
By a letter dated on or after 12 July 2021, Mrs M complained to UKI about its handling of the 
third parties claims. By a final response dated late July 2021, UKI apologised for the way a 
call on 9 July had made Mrs M feel. But otherwise it turned down the complaint. Mrs M 
replied the next day.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us in mid-August 2021. She added a complaint about the 
provision of a hire car.
Our investigator said he couldnt deal with the complaint about a hire car. Otherwise, he  
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that UKI had been 
negligent in the handling of the claim.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that: 
UKI didnt investigate properly.
The accident wasnt her fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hire Car
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). The effect of one of those rules is that  before we can investigate 
a complaint -  the consumer must first have made the complaint to the financial firm and 
waited up to eight weeks for a final response.
Mrs M didnt complain to UKI about a hire car in her letters to UKI before or after the final 
response. She didnt make any such complaint until she brought her complaint to us. So  
under DISP-  I cant deal with a hire car complaint in this final decision.
Third parties claims
Where an insurer has made an outlay in settlement of a claim, it will usually record that claim 
as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers its outlay in full, typically 
from a third party.
UKIs policy terms included the following:
We are entitled to:
otake over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in
your name
otake proceedings in your namefor your, or our own benefit.
You must give us any information and help we need 
The effect of that term was that  on a question of liability to a third party  UKIs view would 
prevail over Mrs Ms.
I will consider whether UKI applied that term fairly. Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence 
from each party and decide the extent to which any of them were responsible for causing 
injury or damage.
Mrs M reported that shed turned right off a main road and was around two car lengths down 
a side road when TP1 hit her from behind. 
Each of the third parties made a claim to UKI that Mrs M had turned right in front of TP1, 
who hit the rear of Mrs Ms car before TP1 also hit TP2 head- on on the main road, pushing 
TP2 back into TP3.
From the available call recordings, I dont consider that UKI said anything inappropriate in 
making the point that the third parties had contradicted Mrs Ms report. I accept that UKI 
asked Mrs M questions including how TP1 had hit Mrs Ms car in the side road and then TP2 
on the main road. I consider that UKI had to ask such challenging questions as part of its 
investigation.
I dont accept that UKI dismissed Mrs Ms photographs. Im satisfied that UKI took them into 
account on about 12 July 2021.
Im satisfied that UKI took into account the nature and location of the damage to each 
vehicle.
Mrs M has told us that a UKI engineer expressed the opinion that TP1 mightve been 
intending to turn left onto the same side road as Mrs M. She invited us to contact the 
engineer. Our investigator declined to do so. In my view, even if the engineer had repeated that opinion to us, this wouldnt have contradicted UKIs view that - as she had been turning 
right - the onus was on Mrs M to keep clear of other vehicles. 
UKIs final response to Mrs M included the following:
you emerged from a side road on to the major road, of which the third party 
vehicle had right of way
I dont think any of the third parties was saying Mrs M had turned right onto the main road. 
And I dont condone such a mistake by a complaints-handler in a final response letter. 
Nevertheless  Im satisfied that UKI had done a reasonable and proportionate investigation.
UKI had weighed up the differing reports of the accident. I consider that it was reasonable for 
UKI to conclude that the nature of the damage to each vehicle was more consistent with the 
reports form the third parties than with the report from Mrs M.
UKI decided that  rather than incur the risk and cost of a court case  it would settle the 
third parties claims.
I accept that the accident and the claims have adversely affected Mrs M and will affect her  
motor insurance premiums for some years.
However, keeping in mind the policy term quoted above, I dont find that UKI treated Mrs M 
unfairly or unreasonably. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to change the way it 
has recorded the claim against Mrs M. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman