DRN-2705690
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt give her a 
breakdown of the charges on her current account and credit card.
What happened
Mrs M had a current account and credit card from Halifax. She was in financial difficulty. 
Halifax agreed a payment plan on the current account in May 2018. The debts were passed 
to debt collection agencies (DCA) in March 2019.
Mrs M wanted to know what the charges had been  she thought the debts transferred to the 
DCA were too high. Halifax hadnt provided this information. During the course of our 
investigation, Mrs M raised a new complaint about the fairness of the charges  this is a 
separate complaint.
Halifax apologised for not responding to Mrs Ms complaint, and paid compensation of £150. 
And they refunded fees of £188.69 paid on Mrs Ms current account, and interest of £208.59 
on her credit card - from May 2018 up to when the debts were sent to the DCA. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax had acted reasonably. 
Theyd sent letters to Mrs M about the debts  so she shouldve been aware of them. Shed 
looked at the statements for Mrs Ms current account and credit card and the balances 
looked OK. The refunds made by Halifax were accurate. There had been a delay in dealing 
with Mrs Ms complaint  but theyd paid compensation of £150 for that. 
Mrs M asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M was struggling with her debts and was in financial difficulty. In May 2018, she 
contacted Halifax. She completed an income and expenditure form. And a payment plan was 
agreed on her overdraft with the balance at £3697.29 debit. Payments of £35 per month 
were agreed for six months. Fees on the account were stopped. When the payment plan 
came to an end, Halifax tried to get in touch with Mrs M to find out what was happening  but 
no contact was possible. She fell into arrears, and formal demand for repayment was made 
in December 2018. Balances of £3747.69 debit (current account) and £1493.41 debit (credit 
card) were transferred to the DCA in March 2019.
I dont think the Halifax can reasonably be expected to provide a detailed breakdown of Mrs 
Ms charges  she wouldve received her statements over the period to do this. But Ive 
looked at the statements for Mrs Ms current account and credit card. The activity and 
spending on them looks appropriate. There is nothing to suggest the balances are wrong in 
any way. So  the debts were correct. Our investigator sent to Mrs M copies of her 
statements for her to review.
Halifax stopped charging fees on the current account between May 2018 and October 2018 
 after Mrs M told them she was in financial difficulty, and after Halifax agreed the payment 
plan  this is what we wouldve expected them to do. And they then refunded fees of 
£188.69 for the period from October 2018 to when the debt was sent to the DCA. They also 
refunded interest of £208.59 on the credit card  for the period from May 2018 to when the 
debt was sent to the DCA. So  they acted fairly. Mrs M didnt pay any interest or charges on 
her accounts from May 2018 to March 2019.
This was a difficult time for Mrs M. She wants to get her life back on track. But  my decision 
is that Halifax acted fairly and I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman