DRN-2983077
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
  
What happened
On 11 February 2020, Mr and Mrs B took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
through a broker. The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Cover under the policy ran 
from 1 May 2020 and was due to expire on 30 April 2021. On 6 March 2020, Mr and Mrs B 
added an optional Travel Disruption Extension (TDE) to their policy. In total, the policy cost 
Mr and Mrs B £281.93, which included a discount of £172.11. The premium also included 
cover for Mr and Mrs Bs medical conditions. 
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs B got in touch with the broker on 4 June 
2020 to ask whether the policy could be cancelled and what their options were.
Great Lakes didnt offer Mr and Mrs B a cash refund. Ultimately, it offered them the following 
options:
A pro-rata credit towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price of 12 
months, at current market rates;
A pro-rata credit towards buying a deferred annual policy. This was a 12 month policy 
at current market rates. A policyholder could choose to start the policy at any time 
within 12 months of buying it; or
A pro-rata credit towards a UK-only annual multi-trip policy, with a potential to 
upgrade the destination at a later date.
Great Lakes calculated the total credit voucher refund amount to be £199.75. This 
calculation didnt include the additional premium Mr and Mrs B had paid for the TDE.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.   
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. He also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. And he explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
the policy started on 1 May 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr and Mrs B a credit voucher, which took into account the 
unused cover remaining on the policy, including a pro-rata refund for the TDE. He also 
asked Great Lakes to recalculate the offer by using the actual price Mr and Mrs B had paid 
for the policy, divided by the total length of the policy and multiplied by the days that werent 
used. He didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive. So he didnt think 
Great Lakes needed to pay Mr and Mrs B a cash refund of their premium.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendations. It recalculated the refund amount 
and told us that the credit voucher available to Mr and Mrs B was now worth £255.67. It also 
let us know that it was no longer offering the 15 months of cover for the price of 12 months 
or the deferred annual policy options. Instead, it let us know that Mr and Mrs Bs voucher 
would be valid for 36 months; was transferrable and could be put towards either a single or 
annual trip policy.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with Great Lakes offer. In summary, they said the broker 
hadnt told them that the 14-day cooling off period would begin from 11 February 2020, given 
cover didnt start until May 2020 and if this had been made clear to them; they wouldnt have 
renewed at that point. They felt the investigators recommendations had been weighted in 
favour of Great Lakes. When theyd tried to make use of the 15 months cover for the price of 
12 offer, the price theyd been quoted was substantially more than the original policy price. 
They felt that if they accepted the offer, theyd be paying another high cost with restrictions.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I think Great Lakes current offer 
is fair. Ill explain why. 
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer 
Mr and Mrs B a refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Bs cooling-off period ended on 25 February 2020. But the 
policy wasnt cancelled until 4 June 2020. So the cancellation was significantly 
outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional 
circumstances. I think this policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are 
individual to the policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. 
This means then that I dont think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs 
contract with Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of premiums.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint (as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great 
Lakes offer of a credit voucher for the unused portion of Mr and Mrs Bs policy is fair 
and reasonable. And given the policy wasnt cancelled until 4 June 2020, I think its 
fair that the date of the cancellation of the policy is used to calculate the refund on 
the facts of this case 
 
Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for both the core policy and the TDE for a 365-
day period if the policy hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, 
unused 331 days of cover, after the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no 
longer carrying any risk of Mr and Mrs B making a claim after that point. 
Great Lakes has now agreed to recalculate the refund by dividing the actual price Mr 
and Mrs B paid for their policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days 
not on risk. Im satisfied that this now leads to a fair outcome.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I say that because the voucher is now valid for a 36-month period. It can 
be put towards either a single trip or annual policy. And Great Lakes has told us that 
the voucher can be transferred. So while I appreciate travel plans may currently 
remain uncertain, I think its likely that the credit voucher can be used within the 26-
month time period. This means I dont think that the terms of the voucher are overly 
restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums and Im 
satisfied its current offer is fair. If Mr and Mrs B do choose to make use of the voucher, it will 
be for Great Lakes to offer a policy at a price which reflects its view of risk at that particular 
point in time. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B say that if theyd known the cooling-off period 
would run from February 2020, they wouldnt have taken the policy at that time. If they feel 
they werent given the relevant information they needed about the policy at the time of sale, 
this would be the responsibility of their broker. Thats because Great Lakes didnt sell the 
policy. So Mr and Mrs B would need to make a separate complaint about the sale of the 
policy to the broker if theyd like this issue to be investigated.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer of settlement is 
fair and reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to calculate the pro-rata credit voucher refund due to Mr 
and Mrs B by dividing the actual price they paid for the policy by the total cover length (in 
days) multiplied by days not on risk. This refund must also include a pro-rata refund for the 
TDE.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman