DRN-3642926
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt provide her with a 
refund after she reported being victim to a fraud.
What happened
Miss B held an account with NatWest. In November 2021, Miss B instructed NatWest to 
make a payment of £561.13 to a third-party business. This was for the purchase and 
installation of a security camera.
Miss B received the device shed purchased, but said shed been overcharged and wasnt 
happy with the functioning of the product once it had been installed. So, she contacted 
NatWest and raised a fraud claim.
NatWest declined Miss Bs claim. It said that as the device had been received and installed, 
but she was unhappy with it, the matter was a civil dispute rather than a fraud. It also 
highlighted that it couldnt raise a chargeback request as the payment was made by transfer 
rather than a card payment.
Miss B disagreed, so she referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator considered 
the evidence provided by both parties but found no error on NatWests part. Broadly, they 
concluded that the matter was a civil dispute rather than a fraud. They also agreed that there 
were no other avenues NatWest could have pursued to dispute the transaction.
Miss B disagreed as she remained of the opinion that the third-party business had 
committed fraud against her. And as such, she should have been afforded the added level of 
protection available for these types of payments.
As Miss B disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by both parties here that the payment in question was authorised by Miss B. 
So, when taking into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of Miss Bs account, she is presumed liable for the payment in the first instance. 
But as Miss B has highlighted to our service, NatWest is a signatory of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which is a voluntary code that provides victims of 
authorised push payment frauds an added level of protection in getting their money back. 
In order for a transaction to be considered under the CRM code, certain conditions must be 
met. The code specifically excludes:
DS2(2b)  private civil disputes, such as where a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some 
way, or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. 
Basic online research of the third-party company Miss B used suggests that it is a legitimate 
registered business with generally good reviews from previous customers. I have been 
presented with no evidence to suggest it was likely set-up for the purpose of fraud. 
Furthermore, Miss B has informed our service that she received the product she paid for and 
that a representative of the business attended her property, on more than one occasion, to 
install the product and carry out follow-up visits after shed raised concerns. 
Miss B has also informed us of communication between her and a representative of the 
business post installation where they have assisted her with the operation of the product and 
recommended that she contact the manufacturer if a fault has occurred since installation: as 
it held a warranty. Miss B has informed our service that she has not contacted the 
manufacturer regarding this warranty.
When considering the above facts, Im persuaded that Miss B is unlikely to have been a 
victim of fraud in these circumstances. There is clearly a dispute between her and the 
business; as Miss B is unhappy with both the pricing and operation of the product. But this 
doesnt persuade me that shes been the victim of a fraud. And as Ive highlighted above, 
these circumstances are excluded from the CRM Code for reimbursement.
NatWest also has a general obligation to be on the lookout for out of character and unusual 
payments on accounts to, among other things, protect its customers from fraud and financial 
harm. But again, as I dont find Miss B has likely been the victim of a fraud here, I dont 
consider these obligations to be relevant.
Miss B has told our service that she has been advised by the Citizens Advice Bureau that in 
these circumstances she should be due a refund. And while that may be the case when 
considering her dispute with the third-party business, Im only considering here if NatWest 
holds any liability for the dispute.
Disputes can be raised in circumstances such as thiswhere a customer is unhappy with 
goods or services receivedbut only where payments are made via a card payment. These 
disputes, commonly referred to as a chargeback, are facilitated by the rules of that card 
scheme. But Miss B didnt make a card payment here, she made an account to account 
transfer. Therefore, NatWest wouldnt have been able to utilise this process.
While I realise this may come as a disappointment to Miss B, for the reasons Ive given 
above, I find NatWest has acted fairly in the way it has dealt with Miss Bs claim. So, I wont 
be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman