DRN-3652043
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs O have complained about how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a 
claim under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs O contacted IPA because they found a leak at their home. IPA sent a 
contractor, who carried out a temporary repair to the roof. The contractor identified issues 
with the roof that he said required a permanent repair. Mr C and Mrs O agreed to the roofer 
carrying out the repairs and paid for him to carry out this work privately.
Mr C and Mrs O contacted IPA again as they said the repairs carried out by the roofer had 
failed and there was internal damage within their home. IPA initially closed the complaint 
because it decided the complaint was about private work carried out by the contractor, for 
which it wasnt responsible. Mr C and Mrs O asked IPA what was happening with their 
complaint, at which point IPA re-opened it and considered the temporary repair.
When IPA replied to the complaint, it said it had closed the first complaint because it wasnt 
responsible for work carried out privately. However, it later opened a new complaint when Mr 
C and Mrs O said they wanted to complain about the temporary repairs. It said that as Mr C 
and Mrs O had to arrange for their own engineer to complete a temporary repair, it agreed 
that the repair hadnt been carried out to the required standard. IPA asked to be provided 
with an invoice/ engineer report for the temporary repair and it would look to reimburse it.
Mr C and Mrs O complained to this service. Our investigator said it was fair that only a 
temporary repair was carried out under the terms of the policy, as this was all that the policy 
covered. There wasnt evidence to show the temporary repair hadnt worked and the 
evidence showed it was the permanent repair that was the issue. However, IPA didnt 
appoint the contractor to carry out the permanent repair and didnt recommend the 
contractor. There also wasnt evidence to show the damage was caused by the temporary 
repair. However, it was reasonable that IPA said it would cover the cost of a further 
temporary repair if Mr C and Mrs O provided evidence of this.
Mrs O didnt agree with our investigators findings. She said neither IPA or the investigator 
had addressed that the first complaint was closed without any discussion with her. When the 
complaint was then later investigated, again, she wasnt spoken to and IPA simply decided 
to believe the contractor. This remained the case when they provided evidence to show the 
further work that needed to be carried out. 
Mr C also replied and said he thought the investigators view was technically correct, but he 
found it bewildering that IPA wouldnt deal with the permanent repair but would seemingly be 
willing to send out engineers to carry out a temporary repair on a regular basis. He also said 
he didnt want to claim on his home insurance because it would lead to increased premiums 
and it was to deal with substandard work by a contractor he had expected to be competent. 
He said he understood that IPA hadnt recommended the contractor and that he had chosen 
to use them. He asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr C and Mrs O have said the first complaint they made hadnt been properly addressed. In 
terms of how IPA handled the complaint, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so it 
doesnt come within the remit of this service. The subject of that complaint was about the 
private work carried out by the contractor, for which IPA wasnt responsible. So, in my view, 
that first complaint isnt one I can comment on both in terms of the subject of it or the way 
the complaint was handled. 
However, I can consider the second complaint in relation to how the temporary repair was 
carried out. Ive looked at whether IPA did what it said it would under the terms of the policy. 
It described emergency repairs as:
Work undertaken by an authorised contractor to resolve the emergency by completing a 
temporary repair
A temporary repair was described as:
A repair that will resolve the emergency but may need to be replaced by a permanent 
repair.
A contractor visited and carried out a temporary repair. He explained a permanent repair 
would be needed. Mr C and Mrs O asked the contractor to carry out the permanent repair 
and paid him for that work. Its my understanding that the additional work was carried out 
shortly after. A couple of months later Mr C and Mrs O contacted IPA to say the permanent 
repair had failed, which had resulted in some internal damage. But, IPA wasnt responsible 
for the permanent work. 
Mr C and Mrs O also said the contractor used incorrect sealant for the temporary repair. The 
contractor told IPA the sealant he had used, which was an all-weather sealant. I havent 
seen evidence that shows that inappropriate materials were used, that the temporary repair 
failed or that any internal damage was the result of this work.
Mr C and Mrs O have also said they used the contractor IPA had sent for the permanent 
repair as they took this to be a recommendation. Mr C now seems to accept this wasnt a 
recommendation. IPA sent an authorised contractor, which the policy described as:
A tradesperson authorised by us to assess your claim, and carry out repairs in your home 
under this policy and under our delegated authority.
So, I think the policy was clear about what the contractor was authorised to do. This was 
under delegated authority, which meant IPA remained responsible for the quality of those 
works. However, it wasnt responsible for Mr C and Mrs O choosing to appoint the same 
contractor to carry out other works or the quality of those works.
Mr C and Mrs O have also said IPA based its findings on what the contractor had said and 
didnt take into account anything from them. Looking at the complaint records, I can see that 
Mrs O sent a number of emails to IPA explaining her concerns. IPA also received evidence 
from the contractor. When IPA replied to the complaint, it said it would expect a temporary 
repair to last for a number of weeks and agreed, based on Mrs Os thoughts on the repair and that she had to arrange her own engineer to complete a temporary repair, that the repair 
hadnt been undertaken to the required standard. IPA asked for evidence related to the 
temporary repair so it could look to reimburse the costs. So, from what Ive seen, IPA did 
take into account Mr C and Mrs Os views and offered to cover the cost of a temporary repair 
if they provided appropriate evidence. I think that was reasonable.
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr C and 
Mrs O to decide if they want to provide IPA with evidence related to the temporary repair.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman