DRN-3500218
The complaint
Mr O complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked and closed his account without telling 
him why, which caused him hardship. And that it gave him poor customer service when he 
tried to find out what was happening.
What happened
On 11 November 2020, Metro blocked Mr Os accounts, while it carried out a review. The 
next day, it issued Mr O with a notice that his accounts would be permanently closed in 60 
days time. The funds in Mr Os accounts were released to him on 16 November 2020 and 
his account remained blocked until it was closed at the end of the notice period.
Mr O complained. He said the block had meant he had to go without eating food for days, 
that Metro wouldnt tell him why it had blocked his accounts, and that he received poor 
customer service when he called Metro and visited his local branch. He also found it 
offensive that Metro had told him to go to a foodbank which was at a church.
Metro didnt uphold Mr Os complaint, so Mr O came to our service. Our investigator thought 
about what Mr O had said, but didnt think Metro had treated him unfairly. She said it was 
entitled to block and close his accounts, that it had acted in a reasonable time to release his 
funds. She said Metro meant no offence by suggesting Mr O goes to a church, and that it 
was just trying to help him.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators findings, so the case has come to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their  
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr O, I 
would need to be satisfied that Metro acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. 
Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied Metro acted in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it blocked Mr Os accounts. And that it was entitled to do so under the 
account terms and conditions that governed the relationship between Metro and Mr O.
I appreciate Mr O is frustrated that Metro hasnt explained its reasons in full, and that he 
feels strongly about his complaint. But, under the terms and conditions of the account, Metro 
doesnt have to give a reason for blocking an account. So, I cant say it did anything wrong 
by not giving Mr O this information when he complained. And, having investigated Metros 
rationale myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the accounts and complete the 
investigation in the manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it treated Mr O 
unfairly.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, Ive looked at the steps Metro took to see if it 
acted fairly.
The terms of Mr Os accounts say that Metro can close the same as long as it gives at least 
60 days notice. And I can see Metro gave Mr O 60 days notice in its letter advising him of 
the closures, so it complied with its contractual obligations.
Further, theres no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, for Metro to disclose the 
reasons behind its decision to close Mr Os accounts. That being the case, I see no basis 
upon which I can reasonably make an award in Mr Os favour.
Mr O says he didnt get 60 days notice, because the account remained blocked throughout 
the notice period. But Im satisfied Metro was entitled to block the account in the first place, 
and keep it blocked during the notice period, so I wont ask it to compensate Mr O for any 
distress or inconvenience he experienced as a result of the block continuing.
Customer service
Mr O complained that Metro didnt take his calls, didnt call him back and didnt give him 
accurate information when he spoke to staff on the phone or in branch. And that he was 
offended that Metro suggested he go to a church.
I recognise the frustration Mr O experienced when he called Metro to discuss his account. 
But he was asking for information Metro wasnt obliged to tell him, so I cant say Metro 
treated him unfairly by not telling him what he wanted to know. There were times when 
Metros communications could have been better, but even if it had been clearer with Mr O, it 
still wouldnt have been able to give Mr O the information he wanted to know, so Im not 
persuaded he suffered any additional frustration as a result.
And while I understand Mr Os complaint about being told to go to a church, I dont think 
Metro was unreasonable in making that suggestion. I havent heard the call in question, but 
Mr O has told our service he told Metro he had starved for 3 days. That being the case, Im 
satisfied Metros suggestion was born out of concern for Mr Os health. And I cant 
reasonably say it treated him unfairly by referring him to a food bank, regardless of its 
location.
Finally, Im not persuaded Metro delayed unreasonably in returning Mr Os account funds to 
him. The funds were released 4 days after Metro completed its review. And, having looked at 
the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied Metro acted promptly. There were 
numerous accounts to review, and Im satisfied 4 days was not an unreasonable delay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman