DRN-3897491
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Society of Lloyds (SOL) has declined a claim they made under 
their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr H has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so for ease I will refer to him only.
Reference to SOL includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr H got in touch with SOL in 2020 to make a claim. Earlier that year, in the process 
of selling the house, a subsidence problem was discovered to the kitchen extension.
SOL appointed a loss adjuster and carried out ground investigations. It said they 
showed the depth of the extension foundation was 0.98m. SOL thought they ought to 
have been deeper, noting the standards of a builder of new homes, N, suggested a 
minimum of 2.3m in the circumstances.
SOL said this meant the claim was declined as the policy didnt cover subsidence 
damage caused as a result of faulty design.
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He arranged for his own investigation, which showed 
the foundation was much deeper  2.2m based on the current ground level and 2.3m 
based on the ground level at the time of construction. He also provided information, 
including planning and approval documents relating to the extension.
SOL maintained the claim should be declined. It said the planning documents 
required a foundation depth of 2.5m and this hadnt been met.
Our investigator didnt think SOL had acted fairly. She wasnt satisfied SOL had 
shown the damage had occurred as a result of faulty design. She recommended SOL 
reconsider the claim and pay the cost of the report Mr H provided.
Mr H accepted what our investigator said. SOL didnt. It provided a significant amount 
of further information, so Ill summarise the most relevant points:
oBuilding Regulations require a building to be constructed to resist subsidence 
movement. Documentation from 2004 required a minimum depth in clay soils 
of 0.75m but noted this depth would commonly need to be increased.
oThe 2013 version of the documents gave similar information. SOL says it 
incorporated Ns standards, so it was reasonable to rely on them.
oA number of technical reference documents are available, including Ns 
standards, Building Regulations, guidance from the Building Research 
Establishment and British Standards, amongst others. All of this guidance can 
be applied to an extension.
oAlthough most people think a Building Control certificate means a building 
has been constructed well, this is wrong. Some Building Control inspectors 
may not understand the guidance well. And some builders may obscure 
aspects of construction so theyre not inspected  or change things after the 
inspection.
oWhilst Ns standards dont apply to a builder not working for N, theyre 
generally good guidance for how to comply with Regulations.
oOverall, the foundation should have been 2.5m deep  but it wasnt. And 
whilst it was built deeper than the lowest area of roots at 2m, it was still 
susceptible to the influence of roots at 2.3m deep.
Mr H responded to what SOL had said. In summary:
oSOLs loss adjuster had visited once and relied on ground investigations that 
have subsequently been accepted to be incorrect. No other visits have taken 
place from SOL or its agents. So its knowledge of the site is limited.
oWhether the foundation needed to meet Ns standards or not, it did. The 
drawings didnt require it to be 2.5m deep.
oGiven the specifics of the site, it may have been practical to vary the depth of 
the foundation. But where both ground investigations have been carried out, a 
depth of 2.3m is in line with Ns standards.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, but not when it arises from faulty 
design, specification, workmanship or materials.
SOL accepts the kitchen extension suffered subsidence damage. Its declined the 
claim, saying the foundation wasnt deep enough. I understand that to mean it thinks 
the design or workmanship was faulty. The onus is on SOL to show why it would be 
fair to rely on the policy term for faulty design to decline the claim.
Whilst SOL initially relied on the findings of its own ground investigation to say the 
foundation was 0.98m deep, it later accepted the findings of Mr Hs investigation 
which noted it was at least 2.2m deep based on the current ground level and up to 
2.3m deep at the time of construction.
SOL initially declined the claim because it said the foundation depth wasnt in line 
with Ns standards. After Mr Hs investigation, it accepted the depth met Ns standards. But it then declined the claim because it said the foundation depth wasnt 
in line with the planning drawings which showed a depth of 2.5m.
Mr H said the drawings didnt specify a depth of 2.5m. This figure was in reference to 
a typical foundation design. And the drawings were accompanied by a range of 
depths. He also noted the extension had received a Building Control certificate.
In SOLs response to our investigator, it noted there was a wide variety of guidance 
available for constructing a building, including an extension. I agree there are 
numerous resources a designer and/or builder could turn to for guidance. But its for 
SOL to show why it thinks the foundation design was faulty, including highlighting 
relevant parts of regulations or guidance that applied at the time of construction.
In this case, SOL has pointed to two main things  Ns standards and the information 
in the design drawings. So thats what Ill focus on.
The policy doesnt set out the standard by which to judge whether the design or 
workmanship is faulty. In my view, it would be fair to consider anything the design 
was required to take into account to meet Regulations. And whether the foundation 
was built in accordance with the design.
At the time of the design and build, Regulations required a minimum foundation 
depth of 0.75m in clay, noting this will commonly need to be increased. The 
Regulations dont set out by how much they should be increased and dont require 
adherence to Ns standards. How much deeper than the minimum is a judgement for 
the designer to make based on the specific circumstances of the site. 
SOL has referred to Regulation from 2013, but the extension had been built by then, 
so I dont think any changes at that time are relevant here.
Whilst the relevant Regulation doesnt refer to Ns standards, the design seems to 
have taken them into account nonetheless. The design shows various recommended 
foundation depths based on the proximity of the nearest tree  up to 2.5m if the tree 
is 10m away. Depths of 2.2-2.3m were given for a tree distance of 12-13m. These 
recommendations are consistent with Ns standards. So I agree with Mr H that 
whether those standards were required or not, the design is based on them.
The drawings show a typical foundation design with a 2.5m depth. As Mr H has 
pointed out, this doesnt appear to be a specific instruction to build to this depth. The 
purpose appears to be to set out the broad foundation design. The recommendations 
dont specify that a depth of 2.5m must be achieved. It only notes that if the closest 
tree were 10m away, 2.5m would be an appropriate depth. SOL has said the tree 
was 12m away, so I dont think 2.5m was required.
Theres disagreement about the exact distance of the tree. But even by SOLs 
estimate of 12m, a depth of 2.3m was recommended by the design and is in line with 
Ns standards  and thats the depth that was achieved when the extension was built.
Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded SOL has shown the design and/or 
workmanship was faulty. So Im not satisfied its shown the policy term applies.
Even if my interpretation of the drawings and recommendations isnt correct, the local 
Building Control office provided a certificate of completion to confirm the extension 
met the requirements of Building Regulations. Its clear SOL has concerns about the certification process. But my role is not to judge that process. And I keep in mind that 
it wouldnt be reasonable to expect a policyholder to judge that process either.
SOL accepts that most policyholders would consider a certificate to show a building 
had been well constructed. So I think it would be reasonable for Mr H to understand 
that the certificate meant the extension, including its foundation, had likely been built 
to an appropriate standard and had passed relevant checks. I dont think there are 
other practical steps he could reasonably have been expected to take to ensure the 
extension was constructed to a suitable standard when he bought the house.
In these circumstances, even if the design and/or workmanship were shown by SOL 
to be faulty, Im not satisfied it would be fair and reasonable to decline the claim.
That means SOL acted unfairly when it declined the claim. To put things right, it 
should now accept the claim. The remaining terms and conditions of the policy apply.
Mr H took advice from a company, who Ill call A, prior to making the claim with SOL. 
I dont think As report has had a bearing on the claim. In these circumstances, I 
wouldnt usually ask SOL to pay for the report and I see no reason to do otherwise 
here. So I wont be asking SOL to pay for As report.
But Mr H did arrange for ground investigations which showed SOLs investigations 
were considerably inaccurate. This had a significant impact on the claim, so I will be 
asking SOL to make a payment. Mr H paid £1,427.80, so Ill be asking SOL to refund 
him this amount.
Its common practice when considering a subsidence claim for an insurer to carry out 
ground investigations. But they should be accurate and they usually take place within 
a matter of weeks of the claim being made. Had that happened, and the claim been 
accepted soon after as should have happened, the position Mr H is in now would 
likely have been reached around two years earlier.
Because that didnt happen, there has been a significant delay. As a result, plans to 
sell the house have been postponed, the damage hasnt been dealt with, and Mr H 
has had to spend a lot of time dealing with the claim. Im satisfied this has caused 
avoidable distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs H. To put that right, SOL should 
pay compensation. I consider £750 to be reasonable and proportionate.
The policy had been due to renew in January 2021 but I understand the underwriter 
at SOL didnt offer renewal. As a result, Mr H found a policy elsewhere without 
subsidence cover. That renewed in 2022 and is due to do so again in 2023.
When an insurer accepts a subsidence claim, its best practice for it to offer a renewal 
to its policyholder, including ongoing subsidence cover. And to extend that offer to a 
potential purchaser of the house when the time comes. That avoids policyholders 
and/or potential buyers finding themselves unable to secure subsidence cover at a 
reasonable cost on the open market. As the claim will now be accepted, SOL should 
ensure the underwriter offers ongoing subsidence cover to Mr H and to a potential 
purchaser in the future, in line with best practice.
I think its unlikely that can be organised prior to the next renewal in January 2023. If 
that means Mr H has to pay a cancellation fee on his current policy when moving to a 
SOL policy with subsidence cover, SOL should reimburse that cost to ensure he 
doesnt lose out financially as a result of the way the renewal was dealt with.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H accepted my provisional findings and proposed award, but asked for clarification on 
two points:
He paid £1,427.80 for the ground investigation and reinstatement of the area, 
including removing decking and landscaping. He asked me to confirm that all these 
costs would be paid by SOL to avoid any potential disagreement later.
He also asked me to provide more information about what it meant for the 
underwriter to provide ongoing subsidence in line with best practice, including what 
impact that might have on the premium charged.
SOL accepted some of my provisional findings and proposed award, but disagreed with 
other parts. In summary:
It agreed to accept the claim, pay compensation and pay for the ground investigation.
It said the underwriter, A, didnt write this class of business any longer and the 
arrangement under which it had previously offered the policy had lapsed. So it wasnt 
possible for A to provide ongoing subsidence cover.
I got in touch with SOL to set out the key points of the Association of British Insurers (ABI) 
guidance on continuation of cover following a subsidence claim. I also said I saw no reason 
why A couldnt offer continued cover to Mr H if it chose to. But an alternative was for SOL to 
approach other underwriters in its marketplace to treat Mr H in the same way I thought A 
should. In my view, that would also put Mr H in a fair position.
SOL made a number of further comments, which Ill summarise:
SOL is a marketplace, rather than an insurer, so it cant provide the cover itself. Nor 
is it an intermediary who can arrange a policy for a consumer.
Even if the claim had been accepted, its likely A would have removed subsidence 
cover at renewal anyway, so Mr H may not have been any better off.
Neither SOL nor A had subscribed to the ABI Domestic Subsidence Agreement. And 
neither were ABI members.
The ABI guidance notes that in certain circumstances, ongoing cover isnt possible. 
SOL said this was one such circumstance because A no longer wrote this business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree the claim should be accepted and compensation of £750 should 
be paid. So I wont comment further on these points. Ill focus on the two outstanding 
points.
SOL has agreed to pay £1,427.80 for the ground investigation, so I think an 
agreement has been reached on this point too. But for the avoid of doubt, this amount includes the associated work to facilitate the investigation, as well as the 
investigation itself.
The main point outstanding is about continued cover. Ill explain more about the best 
practice I referred to in my provisional decision and consider the objections raised by 
SOL about my proposed award on this point.
Once a property has suffered subsidence, its usually significantly more difficult to 
insure on normal terms. Generally, consumers are likely to find insurers dont offer 
cover at all. Or, if they do, only at a considerably increased premium and/or excess. 
As a result, it can be very difficult for consumers in these circumstances to find home 
insurance which provides subsidence cover at an affordable price.
Thats why the ABI provides guidance to insurers within the home insurance industry 
about this. In summary, if an insurer deals with a subsidence claim for a policyholder, 
the guidance says its good practice for the insurer to offer continuous home 
insurance, including subsidence cover, on reasonable terms.
Im aware of ABI agreements which insurers can chose to opt into or out of, such as 
the one mentioned by SOL. But I dont think thats the case with the guidance Im 
referring to as it isnt an agreement as such, its guidance on best practice across 
the home insurance industry. Even if SOL and A could and had opted out of it, I 
would still find it fair and reasonable for the guidance to be followed by these 
businesses. Thats because the guidance represents long-established good industry 
practice. And Mr H would be put to significant detriment if the guidance werent 
followed. Similarly, I dont think its relevant whether SOL or A are members of ABI  
the guidance represents best practice across the industry, so Im satisfied it would be 
fair and reasonable for it to be taken into account in this case.
Had A accepted the claim and then chosen to exclude subsidence cover at the next 
renewal, that wouldnt have followed the guidance and it wouldnt have treated Mr H 
fairly. The guidance means A would have been obliged to offer subsidence cover on 
reasonable terms indefinitely. My proposal was for SOL to effectively put Mr H in this 
position  whether with A or another underwriter from its marketplace.
The guidance notes insurers cant guarantee to maintain cover in all circumstances, 
although it doesnt give any specific examples. However, it says even in problem 
cases, cover should be provided wherever possible. In my view, this means insurers 
should offer cover unless they can present a compelling reason not to. Generally, I 
think a compelling reason is one that would place the risk significantly outside of the 
insurers usual underwriting criteria  but not in relation to subsidence, as thats what 
the industry guidance is seeking to remedy.
The guidance doesnt comment on what should happen if an insurer chooses not to 
operate in the home insurance market any longer. But it does say that where block 
transfers of business occur, the transfer agreement should specify how to handle 
cases where continuous subsidence cover is being provided. Whilst this isnt the 
situation A is in, I think it shows the spirit of the guidance is for an insurer who 
chooses to stop providing cover to policyholders to make arrangements to ensure 
impacted policyholders arent disadvantaged. So Im satisfied theres an onus on A to 
either continue providing the cover or to ensure another insurer does.
I bear in mind that the spirit of the industry guidance is to seek to maintain cover 
where possible. If A isnt operating in the home insurance market any longer, I can understand why it would prefer not to provide continuous cover to Mr H. But Im not 
satisfied its unable to do that. And whilst Ive been clear that I would find it fair for 
another underwriter to step into the shoes of A, SOL hasnt presented any reason 
why that cant be arranged. So Im not persuaded this is a situation where its not 
possible for continuous cover to be provided by an underwriter.
I recognise that SOL isnt an insurer or intermediary. Thats why I proposed to require 
it to approach an insurer to provide the cover. In practice SOL need not be actively 
involved in arranging or setting up the policy with Mr H  it only needs to organise for 
A (or another underwriter to effectively step into As shoes) to offer continuous 
subsidence cover in line with the guidance. The underwriter or an intermediary can 
contact Mr H directly to take the usual steps when setting up an insurance policy.
To put things right, SOL should arrange for an underwriter to offer continued cover to 
Mr H, including subsidence cover, on reasonable terms. When doing so, it must 
ensure Mr H is treated fairly by calculating the premium and other terms according to 
general underwriting guidelines and offering reasonable terms in line with good 
industry practice. The premium and other policy terms shouldnt be set in a way that 
effectively prevents Mr H from accessing continued subsidence cover. To do so 
wouldnt fulfil the purpose or the spirit of the guidance.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to:
Accept the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay £1,427.80 for the ground investigation.
Pay £750 compensation.
Arrange for an underwriter to provide ongoing subsidence cover as set out in my 
findings above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman