DRN-2425284
The complaint
Mrs P doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which she was discharged when 
her protected trust deed came to an end.
What happened
RBS sold Mrs P PPI with three loans. Recently, Mrs P contacted RBS to complain that the 
policies were mis-sold. On 23 March 2020 and 7 April 2020, RBS wrote to Mrs P  it sent her a 
separate letter for each policy  to say all three policies were mis-sold. It offered to refund the 
money shed paid for PPI with simple interest at 8% per year. It included a form with each letter 
for Mrs P to sign and return if she wanted to accept the offer. Mrs P signed and returned all three 
forms.
Below, Ive explained how much compensation was payable for each policy (after tax):
Loan ending 2347: £911.43
Loan ending 7226: £312.04
Loan ending 6934: £3,916.93
In total, Mrs P was owed £5,140.40 (after tax).
However, Mrs P granted a trust deed  which became protected  for her creditors in 
September 2008.
A protected trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and her creditors, which is 
administered by a trustee. The consumer transfers her property to the trustee, who has the 
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate among creditors according to their 
respective rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy is, as an 
asset, usually vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the creditors. A trust 
deed will invariably include provisions relating to the discharge of the consumer from her debts, 
the restoration to her of any surplus and the discharge of the trustee.
Mrs P owed RBS £24,727.88 when she granted her trust deed, and it received payments from 
her trustee totalling £2,571.70. So Mrs P still owed RBS £22,156.18 when she was discharged 
from her trust deed in March 2013. 
RBS has kept Mrs Ps PPI compensation to reduce this debt.
Mrs P doesnt think this is fair.
For reasons that are unimportant here, weve set up two separate complaints for Mrs P: one for 
the PPI policy sold with loan ending 2347 and one for the policies sold with loans ending 7226 
and 6934. However, the crux of each complaint is the same, so Ive decided to issue one 
decision instead of two  and Ill attach it to both files.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take 
into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
In a case very similar to this complaint, the Inner House of the Court of Session held that a 
business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from she was 
discharged when her trust deed came to an end. The case is called Donnelly v Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56. And the Supreme Court refused permission to appeal.
However, when the business learned it had lost its appeal, it asked the Outer House of the Court 
of Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to set aside or undo the 
consumers discharge. This would re-open the trust proceedings and allow it to assert its right of 
set-off.
The court held that the trustees failure to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the consumers 
creditors was clearly a mistake. As such, the court said it could and usually would set aside the 
consumers discharge  unless there were exceptional circumstances which would make it 
inconvenient and unjust. In that case, the court concluded that there were exceptional 
circumstances and refused to reverse the consumers discharge. It took into account a number of 
factors, including: the time that had passed since the consumers discharge; the duration of, and 
misery caused by, the protracted litigation; the fact that the outstanding sum was paltry from the 
businesss perspective (and in proportion to the legal fees likely to have been incurred) but not 
an insignificant sum for the consumer; and, that there would be adverse consequences for the 
consumer and no obvious means to alleviate them.
What does this mean for Mrs P?
Simply put, on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the same 
as those in this case, RBS couldnt plead set-off in court unless the court first set aside Mrs Ps 
discharge. And, of course, the court may decide not to do this.
That said, I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of this case.
And I think its fair for RBS to use Mrs Ps PPI compensation to reduce the money owed and left 
unpaid when her trust deed came to an end.
When two people  or a person and a business  owe each other money, it seems only fair that 
they each pay what they owe.Fortunately, I dont need to worry about the practical and procedural difficulties of reversing Mrs 
Ps discharge. She was discharged from her trust deed in March 2013. Nothing I say will change 
that.
Mrs P says shes received PPI compensation from a different creditor  and she thinks RBS is in 
the same position. She says RBS accepted the terms of the trust deed, which is a legally binding 
agreement, and she strictly adhered to the terms of her trust deed. Mrs P says she made her PPI 
complaint more than six years after her discharge  and she doesnt think its fair for RBS to keep 
her PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which shes been discharged. And shes 
emphasised the point that RBS mis-sold her PPI.
I dont know why a different creditor chose to pay Mrs P PPI compensation. We look at each 
case on its own merits and, in this case, I dont think it would be fair for me to tell RBS to do the 
same.
Mrs P has chosen to revisit something that happened before she granted her trust deed  the 
sale of PPI policies in 2001 and 2003. I think its only fair that I take into account whats 
happened since. Mrs P owed RBS more than £22,000 when her trust deed came to an end. Her 
discharge relieved her of liability but it didnt extinguish the underlying debt. I simply dont see 
how it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mrs P just over £5,000 when she owed and didnt repay 
more than £22,000.
Whats more, if the trust had been administered without error  if Mrs Ps trustee hadnt made the 
mistake of discharging her without first pursuing the PPI claims  RBS would have been able to 
assert its right of set-off and keep her PPI compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mrs Ps 
PPI compensation to reduce the money owed and left unpaid when her trust deed came to an 
end.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman