DRN-3599945
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of her
claim and the standard of repair work following an escape of water.
Mrs C is represented by Mr M in this complaint.
What happened
In September 2018 Mrs Cs property suffered damage due to an escape of water. She made
a claim to RSA and it appointed a loss adjustor to inspect the damage and progress the
claim. Some time was allowed for the property to dry out. RSA subsequently produced a
scope of works for the repairs. Mr M, who was appointed by Mrs C to handle her claim, also
arranged for a scope of works to be produced in February 2019. There were some
differences between the two.
It was agreed that RSA would appoint its contractors to carry out the repairs, as Mrs Cs
chosen contractors couldnt complete the works for the settlement payment offered.
The scope of works changed as issues were identified once the repairs began in April 2019.
Mr M says Mrs Cs chosen contractors couldve been employed had this been known earlier.
In May 2019 Mrs C had a fall. She says this is because of poor workmanship of the repairs
to the floor. After this Mrs C didnt want RSAs contractors to return to finish the repairs and
she complained to the business.
RSA sent a final response to the complaint in December 2019. Correspondence continued
with Mr M and a further final response was sent in June 2020. This says that RSA had
visited the site shortly after work ceased. It says the work was of a satisfactory standard and
the materials used in the repairs were selected by Mrs C. RSA had offered a settlement
payment for Mrs C to arrange completion of the works. It maintained this was correct and in
line with the terms of her policy.
Mr M arranged for a contractor to visit Mrs Cs home and provide a report. This set out a
number of issues with the work. The contractor concluded the kitchen and floor needed to be
removed and re-done. RSA didnt agree, so Mrs C referred her complaint to our service. She
says she has been living with an incomplete kitchen and the amount offered by RSA doesnt
cover the cost for it to be completed. She wants the work to be completed by contractors she
trusts and for an apology to be provided.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Cs complaint. She says she couldnt consider the points
addressed in RSAs original complaint response from December 2019. She refers to the
FCA regulations under DISP 2.8.2R(1) that allows six months to refer a complaint to our
service from the date of the businesss response.
Our investigator considered the points included in RSAs later complaint response from
2020. She thought the contractors report Mr M provided was strong evidence the repair work
wasnt carried out to a good standard. She didnt think RSA had supplied evidence to
contradict this and thought it fair for the business to cover the cost Mr M had shown for
stripping out and reinstating the kitchen.
RSA disagreed with this outcome and sent further comments and photographs of the
kitchen. It refers to the site visit its technical expert attended in July 2020 and says the
issues raised were discounted as illegitimate. It says the reinstatement was carried out like-
for-like with the previous kitchen configuration.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mrs 
Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to not uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C,
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Mrs C first complained to RSA in 2019 and received a final response letter in December
2019. The time limits that apply to the Financial Ombudsman Service are contained in the
DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook (available online).
DISP 2.8.2R(1) provides that, if a business doesnt consent, Im not allowed to consider a
complaint which is referred to us more than six months after the date the final response letter
is sent. Mrs C didnt contact us about her complaint until November 2020. This was outside
of the six-month time limit from December 2019. However, a further final response letter was
sent by RSA in June 2020 following discussions with Mr M.
Mrs C referred her complaint to our service within six months of the date of the later letter.
So, I can consider the issues RSA responded to at this time, which include the standard of
repairs, the materials used, and the final settlement payment it offered.
Standard of repairs and material used
Mrs C raised a number of concerns with the repairs carried out by RSAs contractor. This
includes issues with the construction of the floor, the size and arrangement of the kitchen
units as well as the overall standard of the work.
Mrs C suffered a fall in 2019. At this time, she asked for work to stop and didnt want RSAs
contractors to return. A site visit took place in May 2019 at Mrs Cs home where the issues
with the work were discussed. Following this a report was provided by RSAs technical
expert responding to the concerns raised.
I have copied the relevant excerpts from this report below:
The floor tiles are level and from a visual inspection of the finished work there are no
concerns regarding the workmanship. During laying the tiler discovered that there was a
significant slope on the underlying insulation and plywood overlay with the slope towards the
rear elevation. The insulation is of uniform thickness and will follow the profile of the
underlying slab; as will the plywood overlay, hence the slope reflects the substrate. To
ensure that tiles were laid level, the tiler has used fixed [sic] another layer of tiles below the
finished floor and made up levels as necessary to ensure that the finished floor is level.Ideally the structural slab should have been levelled using a screed, however, the pre-
existing slope was not noted until the tiling commenced and it was then not possible to make
up the levels with screed. The tiler has therefore made up the levels in the way that he has
and Mr and Mrs [C] are insistent that the floor be taken up and replaced with Mrs C claiming
that she was horrified by the workmanship that she observed even though she chose to
say nothing at the time.
Mr and Mrs [C] also claimed the floor level was now higher and pointed to the threshold into
the rear reception room. On the contrary when the threshold was removed it was clear that
the tiles were in the same place as the originals as evidence by the historic paint tide mark.
There are also suggestions that the floor tiles are inadequately adhered to the substrate with
an implement being inserted to a limited depth between the tile and the plywood when the
door threshold to the right rear reception room was removed. This simply reflects the
combed nature of tile adhesive and is in no way a defect.
And:
whilst the method of levelling the floor is unorthodox, it appears to have been effective
with no indications that it is in any way inadequateRSA are satisfied that the finished floor
is fit for purposethey are protected by12 month workmanship guarantee and their
statutory rights under Contract (6 years) and up to potentially 15 years under the Latent
Defects Act.
In relation to the kitchen units RSAs technical expert says:
Allegations have been made that the replacement units are not like for like and, as with the
floor, [Mr and Mrs C] are insistent that it be removed and replaced with another of their
choosing. It was accepted that they had approved the type of kitchen but they were now
unhappy with it for reasons that were not stated;(over and above the depth of wall unit).
They simply advised that the samples provided were not adequate to make an informed
decision on the kitchen choice (colour, materials etc). Of specific concern is the fact that the
wall units carcase depths are only 265mm deep rather than the standard 275mm (depth of
door extra for both with nominal depth typically circa 300mm).
The base units were measured at 560mm deep against a standard 570mm (again door
depth is extra). The replacement kitchen has been assessed against the measurements
taken by the kitchen specialist and have been found to be like for like, this despite the fact
that the insured now advises they cannot fit a dinner plate in the wall units. I am advised that
the non-standard sizing of the kitchen was flagged with [RSA] because a bespoke
manufacture would be required at additional cost. The paper trail evidence in the form of the
kitchen manufacturers site measurements indicates that the kitchen has been replaced like
for like in terms of dimensions and it is not in dispute that [Mrs C] chose the kitchen style
installed. On this basis I am unable to support [Mrs Cs] request that the kitchen be disposed
of and replaced again. Having said that, as a gesture of good will, [RSAs contractor] have
advised that they are happy to replace the wall carcase units with ones of a greater depth at
no cost to either RSA or [Mrs C].
RSAs technical expert says the contractor is prepared to complete the outstanding work. He
notes Mrs C doesnt want this, but he says he cant see a reason to provide an alternative
contractor, and that this would be counterproductive. RSA says if Mrs C doesnt want the
contractor to finish the work the claim will have to be settled with a cash payment.
Subsequent to RSAs report Mr M arranged for an inspection of Mrs Cs kitchen by a
contractor he appointed. A report was then provided. This highlighted issues with the floor
and other aspects of the kitchen, along with a quote to strip out and replace the floor and
kitchen. I have copied the report in full below:Floating floor has been incorrectly installed to [sic] high and not level
Tiled floor also uneven with ridges at ground joints
Kitchen units wall - these are the incorrect size and are not in square also some units are
held in place with L brackets this is totally incorrect
Base units - these base units are also incorrect as you would always start the kitchen run off
with a corner unit - here are no Base corner units in place only standard units this would
make it very tight to open the doors if fitted and also makes the kitchen finish short of where
it should fit
End decor panel is screwed to the new tiled floor this should never be carried out
The 2 new larder cupboards are the incorrect size
The kitchen sink side - no units fixed however if these where to be fixed at the existing height
the appliances would not fit due to the floor being incorrect
In our opinion this kitchen and floor needs to be taken out and started again to be installed
correctly.
RSA asked its technical expert to provide further comment following Mr Ms contractors
report. In his response he stated:
The job that [RSAs contractor] and I inspected was not finished but all of the issues that Mr
[M] raised were discounted as illegitimate with the reinstatement configuration being like for
like in accordance with the contractors historic contemporaneous notes.
I asked RSA for further comment on the specific points raised by Mr Ms contractor, but it
didnt provide a response. I also asked if Mrs C or Mr M could provide evidence to support
the points raised in their contractors report. Mr M supplied photos of the floor and kitchen in
response to my request, which I have considered.
Mr Ms contractor says the floor was installed too high and isnt level. RSAs technical expert
disagrees. He goes into some detail explaining the slope identified with the existing kitchen
floor and the method used by the tiler to ensure a level floor was installed. No concerns were
identified with the level of the floor preventing the kitchen from being fitted as a result of how
it had been laid.
I have considered Mr Ms report, his comments, and the photos supplied. But I dont think
this shows that the floor wasnt fit for purpose or that the remaining parts of the kitchen
couldnt be fitted as a result of this.
Mr Ms contractor refers to wall units that are the incorrect size and incorrectly fitted. The
report also says the base units are incorrect, with no base corner units only standard ones. If
fitted, it says this would, make it very tight to open the doors and also makes the kitchen
finish short of where it should fit. The contractor also raised issues with the end decor panel,
the larder cupboards and where units are to be fitted on the side with the kitchen sink.
RSAs technical expert says the kitchen reinstatement was like-for-like with the original
configuration. He found no issues with the standard of the work and refers to the issues Mr
M raised as having been discounted as illegitimate.
I have thought about the opposing opinions provided by Mr M and his contractor and the
technical expert from RSA. The report RSA provided is more detailed, explaining why the
floor was laid as it was. The expert is satisfied that the kitchen, if fitted, would match the
original configuration and he didnt identify problems with the standard of work  either with
the floor or with the kitchen units. Mr Ms contractor doesnt agree and thinks the floor and
kitchen should be removed and the work started again from scratch.Where there are conflicting views, as in this case between Mr Ms contractor and RSAs
technical expert, I must consider which view I think is more persuasive. The work has yet to
be completed. I acknowledge Mr Ms contractor thinks there will be issues with the install.
But I dont think this can reasonably be concluded based on the information I have seen.
RSA maintains that, following its experts site inspection, there were no concerns with its
contractors workmanship. Its contractors were prepared to finish the work, and this was to
follow the kitchens original configuration. As the work has yet to be completed, and having
considered the expert reports, I dont think its been shown that the kitchen wouldnt be
completed to an acceptable standard if Mrs C allowed RSAs contractors to finish the work.
Mrs C isnt happy with the quality of materials used by RSAs contractor. I have considered
this point. However, I can see that she was given the opportunity to select the materials that
were used in the reinstatement of the kitchen. Im sorry Mrs C is unhappy, but I dont think
its reasonably been shown that the materials used are substandard or that Mrs C wasnt
appropriately consulted and involved in the selection process.
Settlement payment
Mrs C suffered a fall in 2019. It was at this time she gave instructions that RSAs contractor
wasnt to continue with the reinstatement of the kitchen. Im sorry to hear Mrs C was injured.
I hope she has now made a full recovery.
I have thought about RSAs decision to provide a cash settlement, after Mrs Cs fall, to allow
her to arrange for the repairs to be completed. I understand Mr Ms concerns that this is
insufficient to cover the cost of the work required. I have read Mrs Cs policy terms to
understand what is expected here. The terms say:
We take pride in the claims service we offer to our customers. Our philosophy is to repair or
replace lost or damaged property, where we consider it appropriate, and we have developed
a network of contractors, repairers and product suppliers dedicated to providing claim
solutions.
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to pay
our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount we
would have paid our preferred supplier.
I can see that RSA offered a cash payment of £1,966.66. This was equivalent to the
remaining cost it would incur for its contractor to finish the work. Based on the policy terms, I
think RSA behaved reasonably in offering this amount as Mrs C didnt want its contractors to
complete the work.
RSA says its contractor is prepared to provide replacement wall unit carcases with ones of a
greater depth, given the dissatisfaction raised. This will be arranged at its own cost.
In the circumstances described, I think its reasonable that RSA is prepared to arrange for its
contractor to complete the work. Or alternatively, it will provide the cash settlement payment
and arrange for replacement wall unit carcases to be supplied. But I dont think its been
shown that it should cover the cost of stripping out and replacing the floor and kitchen in full.
Im sorry Mrs C has been without a fully completed kitchen for some time. But having
considered the evidence I dont think its been shown that RSA behaved unfairly when
carrying out the reinstatement work, or when providing a cash settlement in line with its
policy terms. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more to resolve this complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA responded to say that it agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr M responded to say that it was disappointing that RSA had taken some time to respond 
to the information requests made by our service. He says the business hasnt treated Mrs C 
fairly in this respect. 
Mr M asks that confirmation be provided that RSA is prepared to arrange for its contractor to 
complete the work. He says this will be more acceptable to Mrs C than having to accept a 
settlement sum that wouldnt allow her to complete the outstanding repairs.
In addition, Mr M says he would like to record officially that the eventual cost of the works far 
exceeds that which he originally costed for the reinstatement works. He says RSAs 
contractors quoted woefully low rates in order to gain the work and submitted variations for 
additional works that were not approved by us as per the letter of authority. Mr M says this 
lack of transparency removed the right of the policyholder to select contractors of their 
choice to undertake the work.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ms disappointment with some delays in RSA providing information to this 
service. We aim to provide a swift decision wherever possible, but this must be balanced 
against the need to consider relevant evidence and testimony. In order to be as informed as 
possible when making my decision this did mean allowing some time for RSA to provide 
information. Im sorry my provisional decision wasnt provided sooner. But Im satisfied this 
approach was appropriate here.  
In my provisional decision I said I thought it was fair that RSAs contractor was prepared to 
provide replacement wall unit carcasses, with ones of greater depth without charge. Also, 
that it was fair that RSA was prepared to arrange for its contractor to complete the work. 
Alternatively, it will provide a cash settlement payment, along with the replacement 
carcasses. Mrs C could then arrange completion of the work.
I note Mr Ms comments that he wants confirmation that RSA is prepared to complete the 
works. However, this has already been confirmed by the business as detailed in my 
provisional decision. RSA is prepared to arrange completion of the works by its contractor or 
provide a cash settlement payment. Im satisfied that this has been made clear.
I acknowledge Mr Ms reference to scope of works he arranged at the outset being less than 
the eventual cost of the work carried out by RSAs contractors. And his view that RSAs 
contractors quoted at a low rate in order to gain the work. 
In my provisional decision I referred to the policy terms that say RSA will repair or replace 
damaged property, and it has a network of contractors, repairers, and product suppliers to 
do this. RSA will benefit from preferential rates due to the volume of work it arranges through 
its network. This is likely to mean that it can arrange for repairs to be carried out at a lower 
cost than can otherwise be arranged. I acknowledge Mr M is unhappy that the cost of the 
work increased during the repairs. As I discussed in my provisional decision its apparent 
some issues came to light as the work was ongoing. This meant the overall cost of the work increased. But I dont think its been shown that these costs shouldve been identified at the 
outset. 
Mrs Cs policy terms state that RSA will arrange for repairs or replacement. This is what it 
did, and it is prepared to arrange completion of the work. I dont think its been shown that 
the work completed so far is inadequate or that the completed kitchen wont be of a good 
standard. In these circumstances I dont think RSA treated Mrs C unfairly. 
For the reasons I have discussed here I havent found cause to change my provisional 
decision. This will now become my final decision.       
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman