DRN-3081384
The complaint
Mr L complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) lent to him irresponsibly and 
didnt carry out sufficient checks when they opened his credit card account and increased his 
credit limit. 
What happened
Mr L was accepted for a credit card by Capital One in January 2016 with a credit limit of 
£1,000. Capital One then increased the credit limit to £1,250 in October. Mr L experienced 
financial difficulties and missed payments on his account. Mr L complained to Capital One as 
they reported the missed payments to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). Mr L also 
felt Capital One lent irresponsibly and didnt carry out proper checks. Mr L also said the late 
markers appearing on his credit file were affecting his ability to get a mortgage.  
Capital One responded and explained the late markers added between 2017 to 2019 were 
done so correctly so theyre unable to remove them. Capital One said they had written to   
Mr L regarding the status of his account and how they could support him, but he didnt call 
them to discuss his available options. Capital One said the current balance on Mr Ls 
account is £1,230.48 and he can call their collections team to discuss what options are 
available to support him. 
Capital One also said, Mr Ls application for the credit card said he was earning £80,000 per 
year. And, when opening Mr Ls account, they checked his credit file and while it showed 
hed defaulted on three debts before, they werent recent to his application. They said Mr Ls 
two active agreements were both in good order with no late markers recorded in the 12 
months leading up to his application. They said, based on their creditworthiness and 
affordability assessments, they opened a credit card account for Mr L. 
Capital One said between the opening of the account to when they offered a credit limit 
increase in October, all Mr Ls statement balances were settled in full and paid on time. They 
said this demonstrated his ability to repay his agreement and the efforts being made to 
enhance his credit profile.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L. He thought Capital One had made a fair lending 
decision in relation to the account opening and the credit limit increase. Mr L disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr L will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr L could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Capital One carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Capital One needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the 
sources of information Capital One may have wanted to consider as part of making a 
proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers 
to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional 
information from the customer and any other sources of information to use.    
   
The account opening 
Capital One is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see that Capital 
One, when opening the account, considered information provided by Mr L on his application 
form and information from CRAs which includes Mr Ls external debt and how he was 
managing his account with other lenders. On the application form, Mr L has stated his gross 
annual income as £80,000. So, the credit limit of £1,000 represents 1.25% of Mr Ls gross 
annual salary. The information from the CRAs show Mr L had six other accounts of which 
three were defaulted. With regard to the defaulted accounts, one was a credit card account, 
one was a payday loan and one was a communications contract. The credit card account 
had a balance of £3,982 when it defaulted but had been reduced down to £2,814 at the time 
of the application. And, the payday loan had a balance of £1,062 when it was defaulted, and 
this had been reduced down to £862 at the time of the application. While both these defaults 
were registered a few years before Mr Ls application  and were both decreasing - I think 
there is an issue here which shouldve led Capital One to carry out further checks. 
Firstly, the balances hadnt been paid off for several years, and while they were decreasing, 
it was at a very slow pace with no payment being made for some time. And, the balance for 
the other defaulted account, the communications contract, was £133 but I cant see this had 
reduced since the default date. In these circumstances, and taking into account what the 
information showed, I think this shouldve prompted Capital One to find out more about      
Mr Ls financial position. Capital One had information about Mr Ls income, but I cant see 
they carried out any checks on his monthly expenses. I think that wouldve been reasonable 
and proportionate here given that Capital One were aware Mr L had defaults for several 
years which hadnt yet been paid off. I think that shouldve led Capital One to look into what 
Mr Ls expenditure was to determine whether Mr L would be able to afford, at the very least, 
the minimum monthly payment.      
So, I cant say the checks carried out by Capital One were reasonable and proportionate.  
Given that I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed in this case, 
the next point Ive considered is, if reasonable and proportionate checks had been 
completed, would they more likely than not have shown that Mr L was more likely than not 
unable to sustainably repay what he was being lent. 
To help decide this, Ive looked at Mr Ls expenses. I can see our investigator asked Mr L to 
complete an income and expenditure form for the period leading up to the account opening. This shows Mr Ls income as £3,926.73 and his expenditure as £5,363.99. Mr L says the 
expenditure amount was the total outgoings for that month and includes his gambling 
expenses. Ive thought carefully about this, but I believe, had Capital One asked about       
Mr Ls monthly expenditure, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that     
Mr L wouldnt have disclosed his gambling expenses  which he says were around £2,000 a 
month. This information wouldve likely increased the risk of Mr Ls application being 
declined  and its clear Mr L was looking for credit at the time. So, looking at the financial 
information provided by Mr L it appears his monthly expenditure was around £3,177. 
Therefore, after deducting his expenses from his income, Mr L wouldve been left with a 
disposable income of around £750 per month. 
Under Mr Ls credit card agreement with Capital One, his monthly payments are made up of 
1% of the outstanding balance on his account, interest, and all default sums incurred that 
month. So, looking at Mr L utilising his credit limit of £1,000, this would mean his monthly 
payment would be around £40. Taking into account Mr Ls disposable income, I cant say 
Capital Ones decision to lend was unfair. I think the information they shouldve considered 
would reasonably have led them to make a decision that Mr L could make repayments 
without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to 
borrow further. 
Credit limit increase 
In relation to the credit limit increase, this was increased by £250, which is a 25% increase 
from the previous limit and was applied nine months after the account opening. Information 
provided by Capital One shows they took into account Mr Ls income, information from the 
CRAs and how Mr L was performing against his Capital One account. I think the checks 
carried out by Capital One are reasonable and proportionate as they take into account a 
number of factors. And, the checks carried out are the type I would reasonably expect 
because they would help Capital One to not only build a picture of Mr Ls financial situation, 
but also to assist in determining whether he could repay the credit in a sustainable way.   
The next point Ive considered is whether Capital One made a fair lending decision bearing 
in mind the information gathered and what they knew about Mr Ls circumstances. Mr Ls 
income was still showing as £80,000. So, the credit limit increase to £1,250 represents 1.5% 
of Mr Ls gross annual salary. While its a 25% increase from the previous credit limit, its a 
small increase against Mr Ls salary. Ive also looked at how Mr L was performing against his 
Capital One credit card account as this is information Capital One had to hand and 
something they say their checks took into account. Mr Ls credit card statements show that, 
from the period between the opening of the account to the month prior to the credit limit 
increase being applied, Mr L paid all his statement balances in full and on time. And, I cant 
see Mr L incurred any over limit charges. I think this demonstrates Mr L was managing his 
account well.     
 
The information received from the CRAs shows that Mr L still had external defaults of 
£4,000, so this would suggest there hadnt been much movement on repayment of the 
defaulted accounts since the account opening. 
But, at the point the credit limit is increased, Capital One have the benefit of seeing nine 
months of Mr Ls performance against the Capital One account. And, on occasions, I can 
see Mr L has made significant payments towards his balance  the average across the nine 
months being £945. Taking this all into account, I havent seen any information here which I 
believe shouldve led Capital One to identify that Mr L wouldnt be able to make repayments 
without undue difficulty and wouldnt be able to meet other commitments without having to 
borrow further. So, I think their decision to increase Mr Ls credit limit was fair.   Mr L says Capital One didnt ask to see copies of his bank statements  and he feels this 
was necessary to enable them to get a complete picture of his financial circumstances. But 
nothing Ive seen suggests Capital One needed to make any checks beyond those they 
carried out  and those I think they shouldve carried out. The checks carried out by a lender 
need to be reasonable and proportionate. And, what constitutes reasonable and 
proportionate in one case might not necessarily satisfy the test in another case. So, in some 
cases, if there is evidence to suggest a lender shouldve had wider concerns, then we might 
say they needed to carry out further checks and perhaps have looked at a customers bank 
statements. In this case, I havent seen any information which I think shouldve led Capital 
One to look at Mr Ls bank statements or even request any further information beyond the 
checks they carried out and the information about Mr Ls expenditure. I think this was 
reasonable and proportionate to show Mr L would be able to repay any credit in a 
sustainable manner.  
Mr L says there were a lot of gambling transactions so Capital One lent to him irresponsibly. 
Mr Ls bank statements do show payments being made to a gambling company in the 
months leading up to the account opening. I have considered this point, but I cant see any 
information which shows that Mr L made Capital One aware of any gambling problems. And, 
given that Ive said I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Capital One to ask for     
Mr Ls bank statements, they wouldve been unaware of this. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr L as I understand hes concerned the adverse information on his 
credit file relating to his Capital One account might impact his ability to get a mortgage in the 
future. But, I can only ask Capital One to take steps to remove any adverse information if I 
think their decision to lend was unfair. In summary, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint in this 
matter as I feel Capital One made a fair decision to lend in respect of the account opening 
and the credit limit increase. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman