DRN-3539751
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the price AXA PPP Healthcare Limited charged them for a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs W are represented by Ms W.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a personal private medical insurance policy with AXA in December 
2017, which renewed each year. At the policy renewal in 2019, Mr W was unhappy with the 
price hed been quoted and so AXA agreed to give Mr and Mrs W two months of free cover.
In November 2020, AXA sent Mr and Mrs W renewal paperwork for the 2020-21 policy year. 
Their annual premium had increased from around £7602 to £10,190.40. Mr and Mrs W were 
unhappy with the premium rise and they complained to AXA.
AXA said the price was right. It said that the premium had increased due to age and medical 
inflation. And it also said that Mr Ws no claims discount level (NCD) had dropped because 
hed made claims during the 2019-20 policy year.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy with the way AXA had administered their policy and so 
they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
were not able to tell AXA how it should assess risk or what price it should charge to cover 
that risk. He didnt think the evidence indicated that AXA had singled Mr and Mrs W out in 
any way and he thought it had calculated the price fairly.
Ms W disagreed with the investigators findings and so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. Its important I make clear that this decision will only consider whether AXA treated 
Mr and Mrs W fairly at the 2020-21 policy renewal. Im aware that Mr and Mrs Ws 2021-22 
premium quotation showed a further increase in price. But it isnt clear that Mr and Mrs W 
have complained to AXA about their 2021 renewal price and so Im not able to look into that 
specific issue here. Its open to Mr and Mrs W to make a new complaint about their 2021 
renewal price to AXA should they wish to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I think AXA has treated them 
fairly and Ill explain why.
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr and Mrs Ws. We dont 
generally tell insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover 
that risk. AXAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a 
particular risk (in this case, claims relating to Mr and Mrs Ws health). And if it does, what 
price it needs to charge for that. So AXA will have assessed the risk of Mr and Mrs W 
needing to make a claim when they took out the policy and then at each yearly renewal 
afterwards. If it thinks the risk has gone up (for example, because the risk-profile has 
increased or because health care costs have gone up), then it may need to put up the 
premium. 
So in complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to calculate 
the premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that Mr and Mrs 
W have been treated in the same way as any other AXA customer in similar circumstances 
and havent been singled out in any way. 
It seems that Mr and Mrs Ws renewal premiums have increased since they took out the 
policy. So I can understand why theyre worried that AXA hasnt treated them reasonably. 
AXA has provided me with information to show how the renewal premium in 2020 was 
calculated. I hope it reassures Mr and Mrs W to know that I have considered this information 
carefully. 
AXA and the investigator explained the main reasons for the price increases to Mr and Mrs 
W. As AXA set out on page 36 of its policy document (which forms the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ws contract with AXA), the most common reasons for increases are down to age and 
advances in medical treatment, which can lead to increased treatment costs. Increases in 
Insurance Premium Tax can also cause the price to rise.
The main reasons for the price rises in 2020 though were two-fold. Firstly, as Mr W had 
made claims during the 2019-20 policy year, his NCD level dropped from 74% to 67%. Page 
35 of the policy terms explains the way the NCD works. Briefly, the policy says that if AXA 
pays any claim, irrespective of its value, the NCD will drop by three levels. Thats what 
happened here. So whilst I appreciate Mr Ws claims were low-value, I think AXA calculated 
the resulting drop in his NCD at renewal in line with the policy terms. Id add too that it 
seems AXA did offer Mr W the chance to buy back his claims and reinstate his 2019-20 
NCD. This is likely to have reduced the policy price accordingly had he chosen to do so.
And its common ground that Mr and Mrs W also benefitted from two months of free cover 
during the 2019-20 policy year. This means that the increase in monthly premium they saw 
at renewal in 2020 wouldve looked greater as a result. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied AXAs treated Mr and Mrs W in the same way it would 
any other policyholder who held the same type of policy and in similar circumstances to their 
own. So I cant reasonably say its treated them unfairly. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W feel that 
as Mr Ws claims were low in value, theyve wrongly been overcharged. But considering the 
available evidence, Im satisfied AXA fairly calculated Mr and Mrs Ws premium. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman