DRN-3327294
The complaint
Miss E complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill settled a claim made
against her car insurance policy without notifying her.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case because it was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to our investigator. Before I issued my final decision on the matter, I 
wanted to give both parties the chance to respond.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
In December 2020, Miss E was involved in a collision which took place in a car park. Miss E
contacted Churchill after the collision to let it know. During the call, Miss E says that she
asked Churchill to let her know if the third-party made a claim.
Later, Miss E was shopping around for a new car insurance policy, and it came to her
attention that a claim had been made against her policy for around £2,000. Miss E contacted
Churchill about this, and it was explained to her that the third-party (TP) made a claim on the
policy, and that it had settled this as a fault claim against Miss E.
Miss E was unhappy about this. She said she wasnt given the opportunity to provide her
version of events or provide evidence that might have supported her version of events that
the collision wasnt her fault. Miss E says that as a result of the fault claim against her, her
insurance premiums have increased by around £250, which she doesnt think is fair.
Churchill responded to Miss Es complaint and agreed to pay her £150 for not letting her
know that a claim had been made against her. However, it thought its decision to hold her
liable for the collision was fair based on the information it had. Churchill explained that it had
listened to the call Miss E had with its representative from when she first reported the
incident. During the call, Miss E confirmed that she was reversing at the time of the collision.
Churchill also say that Miss E said that she didnt have any additional evidence to support
what shed said, like CCTV footage, dash cam footage or an independent witness. Churchill
say it let Miss E know during the call that if the TP made a claim, it would likely hold her at
fault. This is because Miss E was reversing at the time and so would have a higher duty of
care to ensure that the road was clear before making the manoeuvre.
Our investigator also looked into things for Miss E. They thought that Churchill had acted
fairly when investigating the claim, but they thought that Churchill should increase its offer of
compensation to £300.
Miss E didnt think that the investigators view to increase compensation to £300 was
enough. She added that Churchill had gone behind her back in communicating with the TP
when dealing with the claim  and it didnt get in touch with her. Miss E doesnt believe that
the damage caused to the TP vehicle would have cost £2000 to repair. And shes reiterated
that shed need to disclose the claim made against her when taking out future policies, and
this would likely increase the amount shed need to pay in premiums.
Churchill also responded to the investigator to say that it thought the increase in
compensation to £300 was unfair and not in line with previous investigations it has received.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, it is my current intention not to uphold Miss Es complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
It isnt my role to determine who was at fault for the collision; that would be a matter for a
court of law. What Im deciding is whether Churchill has acted in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that Churchill can take over the settlement of the
claim. So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it - or it can decide whether it is
prepared to defend Miss E if the matter went to court. Court proceedings can be expensive
and the outcome cant be guaranteed, so insurers will consider the costs involved and the
likelihood of success in making these decisions. That might mean Churchill makes a
decision Miss E disagrees with, as has happened here.
I can understand Miss Es frustration with being held liable for a collision she says wasnt her
fault. While I cant make a decision as to who was liable for the collision, I have looked to
see if Churchill have acted fairly in deciding how to settle matters and Ive checked it has
made a reasonable assessment of the claim.
Ive listened to the call from the 24 December 2020, when Miss E first contacted Churchill to
let it know about the incident. During the call, Miss E explained that she was calling to report
the incident, bit not to make a claim. In the call, Miss E said that the incident occurred when
the third-party car came across a junction and hit the back of her while in a carpark. She said
she was reversing at the time and not stationary. She explained that both cars were moving.
And that she was reversing in the road at the carpark and not in a parking space.
Miss E was asked by the representative if there was any evidence of the incident, for
example CCTV or witnesses, but Miss E confirmed there wasnt. Miss E confirmed that the
plastic grill on the front of the other vehicle had been damaged. And she had a tiny scratch
on her car.
The representative let Miss E know that if a claim was made against the policy, she would be
held liable, given that she was reversing at the time and there werent any witnesses who
saw what happened. Miss E asked the representative to let her know if a claim is made
against her, and the representative confirmed they would.
Generally, the onus is on the driver carrying out the manoeuvre to ensure that the road is
clear prior to making the manoeuvre. So, in this case, Miss E would need to ensure that it
was safe to make the manoeuvre prior to executing it. And so, I dont think it wasunreasonable of Churchill to hold Miss E to a higher duty of care in this circumstance.
Miss E confirmed on the call that she couldnt get any evidence to support her version of
events. I appreciate that shes now saying that she could have tried to get this if Churchill
had notified her of the claim made against her. But given that she already explained that this
wasnt something shed be able to provide, I dont think it was unreasonable of Churchill to
not request anything of this nature from her again. And so, even if Miss E had been notified
of the claim made against her, I dont think it likely she would have been able to obtain
evidence and so Churchills decision to hold her liable would unlikely change.
I understand Miss E is now saying that she thinks the claim has been exaggerated by the
TP, and so Churchill has paid too much to settle it. Ive asked Churchill for a breakdown of
the costs it paid to the TP, and based on what Ive seen, I dont find these to be
unreasonable.
Its not in dispute that Churchill didnt notify Miss E of the claim made against her  and it
should have done this. Churchill has agreed to pay Miss E £150 to say sorry for this, and so
its left for me to decide if this is enough to settle things, and I think it is.
Understandably, not notifying Miss E of the claim that has been made against her would
have been shocking for her when she went to renew her car insurance. But I dont think that
Churchills failure here has had an impact on the claim itself. I find it unlikely that even if Miss
E had been notified of the claim earlier, that shed be able to provide Churchill with enough
evidence to support what shes said about incident  so I dont think Churchills decision to
hold her liable would likely have been different. Given that a fault claim has been recorded
against Miss E, this would likely have increased her premiums anyway, so I dont think
Churchills error in not communicating with her effectively has had an impact here either. I
agree that it would likely have been embarrassing for Miss E to find out about the claim
against her in the way that she did, but I think £150 is enough to settle this.
I understand that Miss E is unhappy that Churchill were in communication with the TP,
however, it had a duty to deal with the claim that had been raised. So, I dont find that it did
anything wrong when it was communicating with the TP.
Churchill responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt have anything further to add.
Miss E replied to say that she would like to point out that the TP didnt make a claim against 
her and it was Churchill who got in touch with the TP and offered this. She also added that 
Churchill had no idea about what damage was caused, so how could they know if the claim 
amount was correct or not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, it is my decision not to uphold Miss Es complaint, for the 
same reasons as outlined in my provisional decision. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss E, but I will provide my response to her points below.
Looking at the notes provided by Churchill, it does appear that Churchill contacted the TP 
about the claim. I can understand why Miss E might not be happy about this. But when Miss 
E contacted Churchill to notify it of the incident, she confirmed that the TP vehicle had some 
damage. The policy terms and conditions state that Churchill can take over and settle a claim. So I 
dont think it did anything wrong when it contacted the TP about the incident. 
Even if Churchill hadnt got in touch, its likely that the TP would have contacted Churchill 
about the claim anyway, given that their car had been damaged. So I dont think the 
outcome here would have been any different whether Churchill contacted the TP or the other 
way round.
Miss E has raised her concerns about the amount that Churchill paid out on the claim. In my 
provisional decision, I explained that Id seen a breakdown of the costs that were paid for the 
repairs and said these didnt appear to be unreasonable based on the invoice it provided. I 
appreciate that Miss E doesnt think Churchill knew what damage had been caused to the 
TP car, so it couldnt have known that what it had paid was fair. But Churchills approved 
repairer carried out the repairs to the TP vehicle, so I find it unlikely that it would have 
agreed to pay for any repairs that it deemed to be overinflated or not related to the damage 
caused by the incident. And I havent seen anything that persuades me that this is the case. 
So again, I cant find that Churchill has done anything wrong here.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman