Page 1 of 2The complaint
Mr E complains that Blue Motor Finance Limited failed to reimburse him fully when it agreed 
to the rejection of a faulty car. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
It is agreed by all parties that the car was faulty and that rejection was the appropriate 
remedy. I need not comment on that issue. The issue which is for me to decide is how much 
Mr E should contribute for fair usage before the car was taken back. 
The car was acquired on 21 June 2021 and on 10 December 2021 Blue authorised rejection. 
In this period Mr E had covered 5,407 miles. Blue deemed that Mr E had fair use of the car 
during this period and said it would not reimburse any of his monthly payments prior to 10 
December.
I understand that for between six to eight weeks the car was in the garage for repair. Mr E 
was given a courtesy car when his was not available. I gather this was a much smaller and 
less powerful car. This restricted what Mr E could do and he says that it impacted several 
planned family trips. Blue says that it is not responsible for the courtesy car and he was kept 
mobile throughout. 
I have also noted that one of the issues Mr E encountered with the car was it was consuming 
excessive amounts of fuel which proved to be costly. Blue has said that as he covered a 
reasonable mileage it has deemed him to have had fair use. The agreement makes no 
reference to a mileage limit and so there is no basis for establishing what is fair usage in 
terms of miles covered.. 
The reality is that Mr E had use of a faulty car for some four months and for the rest of the 
time he had the use of a less suitable courtesy car which I gather had its own problems. I 
DRN-3360782Page 2 of 2dont consider it reasonable to say that he should pay the full amount due each month for a 
substandard experience in a faulty car.
He had to deal with taking it to and collecting it from the garage on top of the time taken to 
pursue the rejection. Overall, I think some reduction in his payments is merited. I agree that 
he should make some payment towards the use he had of the car, but I consider a reduction 
of 20% for the time the car was in the garage is fair, plus £250 compensation.
Putting things right
Mr E should pay a reduced amount and receive compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance Limited to:
reimburse 20% of Mr Es monthly payments for the times he didnt have use of his
own vehicle and
pay 
him £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman