DRN-3667663
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled 
the administration of their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr P have a home insurance policy with RSA covering their household contents. 
In April 2021, some accidental damage happened to Mrs and Mr Ps wardrobe. Mrs P was 
aware theyd made a claim under their household insurance before, so she asked RSA what 
the impact would be on their premium at renewal if they were to make a claim for the 
damage. 
RSAs claims handler told Mrs P their premium wouldnt be affected, so Mrs and Mr P 
continued to make the claim.
When their policy renewed, Mrs and Mr P found that their premium had increased from 
£580.91 to £1,013.23.
Because Mrs and Mr P werent happy, they complained to RSA. They ask for their premium 
to be reduced to the previous years figure. 
RSA apologised and said Mrs and Mr P hadnt been given the correct information by its 
claims handler about the impact of the claim on their renewal premium. It said that the 
premium charged was correct, so it wasnt able to reduce it. RSA paid them £150 for their 
inconvenience. 
Mrs and Mr P remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it. He also said he thought that, if RSAs claims handler said what they should 
have said when asked about the impact on the premium, then Mrs and Mr P would have 
continued with their claim for the wardrobe. So he thought RSAs offer of £150 compensation 
was fair and RSA had acted reasonably in charging the higher premium at renewal.
Further details were then provided about Mrs & Mr Ps claims history. Other claims had been 
registered under their household policy in 2020, for accidental damage, and in 2018 for 
some lost property. 
The 2018 claim was logged on RSAs system as a claim under the personal possessions 
section of the policy. But it emerged that it had been incorrectly recorded. The claim was 
made while Mrs and Mr P were on holiday under their travel insurance policy, and as such it 
should have been logged as a contribution claim against their home insurance. This means it 
shouldnt have impacted their no claims discount.
Our investigator said RSA should change its system and update a central database of 
claims, called CUE, to correct how the 2018 claim was recorded. He said RSA should refund 
additional amounts overpaid by Mrs and Mr P from September 2021 once the premium was 
re-calculated with the correct details of the 2018 claim.
RSA agreed with the view, but Mrs and Mr P didnt. They asked that their complaint was 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
It seems to me that RSAs claims handler made a substantial error in April 2021 when Mrs 
and Mr P contacted it to make a claim. The claims handler should have advised that the 
renewal premium might be affected, and that it would be reviewed by an underwriter when 
the policy was due to renew. 
But what the claims handler actually said, which is borne out by the evidence from RSA, was 
that the premium wouldnt change because Mrs and Mr P could have made up to three 
claims in three years without affecting their premium.
Mrs P says that she only continued to make the claim because of what the claims handler 
told her, and I think its a reasonable position of her to take. 
RSAs actual approach to protected NCD on its household policy is that the first claim does 
not affect the amount of discount, but the second and subsequent claims each knock two 
years off.
Its important that I say here that Mrs and Mr Ps premium would usually change every year 
due to various factors, which would include the claims and losses theyd had. But their NCD 
expressed as a percentage would still be applied to the underlying premium.
So, making a claim might not affect the NCD percentage, but the premium paid would most 
likely still change because of the way that insurance companies assess risk and price their 
policies.
2018 claim and impact
What has also emerged in this complaint is the 2018 claim for lost property and how it was 
mis-classified on RSAs system. Its Mrs and Mr Ps contention that this claim has been 
incorrectly recorded by RSA and affected their NCD and premium. 
RSA have provided evidence to this service where it has looked at the impact of the 2018 
claim on Mrs and Mr Ps premiums. I can see from its evidence that the premiums Mrs and 
Mr P were charged are correct, and at the correct full (25%) level of NCD as though the 
2018 claim hadnt happened.
As I have already mentioned, the level of NCD is correct, but the premium charged may 
have changed because of the claim that had been made. 
I agree with our investigator that RSA need to update its records, and CUE, to make sure the 
2018 claim is correctly categorised, but Im not persuaded to ask RSA to do anything further 
about the different premiums it may have charged Mrs and Mr P solely because of the 2018 
claim.
2020 and 2021 claims and 2021 renewal
RSA have said that Mrs and Mr Ps claim in 2020 wasnt taken into account until the 2021 
renewal. This meant that the 2018 and the 2020 and 2021 claims impacted their NCD 
together, dropping the discount from 25% to 5%. But I have said above that I dont think its fair that RSAs claims handler to have given the 
wrong information to Mrs and Mr P, so I propose that RSA should recalculate the 2021 
renewal premium with a full 25% discount and refund the difference to Mrs and Mr P.
I do appreciate that Mrs and Mr P asked for their 2021 premium to be the same as 2020, but 
I dont think its fair to ask RSA to do this because of the way insurance companies calculate 
premiums as Ive set out above.
Future renewals
Mrs and Mr P have also mentioned that their premium and NCD will be affected in future 
years. They have said about how RSAs claims handler gave them the wrong information in 
2021 when they rang to make a claim, and they say they are entitled to rely on what they 
were told. 
But I can also see that RSAs scale of NCD is set out in its policy wording which Mrs and Mr 
P have. 
It seems to me that Mrs and Mr Ps correctly calculated NCD at renewal in 2021 should have 
been three years (or 15%), so at renewal in 2022 it should be four years (20%), assuming 
that Mrs and Mr P havent made any additional claims. 
In other words, 20% compared to the maximum of 25% which Mrs and Mr P believed they 
were entitled to.
I understand that Mrs and Mr P had access to this information in their policy wording, but 
taking into account the explicit information they were told when they made the 2021 claim, I 
think its fair that I ask RSA to apply five years (25%) NCD for their 2022 renewal.
Ive explained above about how NCD is applied to the underlying premiums that RSA 
charge, so its not possible for me to comment on what premiums RSA may apply in the 
future. 
Distress and inconvenience
Ive said above that I think RSAs claims handler made a substantial error when discussing 
Mrs and Mr Ps wardrobe claim with them. 
I can see from the file that this has caused them distress and inconvenience and the 
discovery of the mis-categorisation of the 2018 claim has helped explain why the impact on 
their 2021 renewal premium was so large.
Our investigator recommended that RSA pay Mrs and Mr P £150 for their inconvenience and 
I agree with him that this amount is fair and inline with what this service would recommend in 
similar situations. So Im not going to ask RSA to pay any more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I intend uphold this complaint. 
I intend to require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Ensure the 2018 claim is categorized correctly as contribution on RSAs system and 
CUE.
Re-calculate Mrs and Mr Ps 2021 renewal premium with 25% NCD, and refund them the difference between what they paid and this figure.
Allow Mrs and Mr P five years NCD (25%) at 2022 renewal, subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy, and assuming that no further claims have been made by Mrs 
and Mr P.
Pay Mrs and Mr P £150 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. Its my 
understanding that this amount has already been paid.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs and Mr P accepted my provisional decision and RSA said it didnt have anything to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties agreed with my provisional decision or had nothing to add, my final decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Ensure the 2018 claim is categorized correctly as contribution on RSAs system and 
CUE.
Re-calculate Mrs and Mr Ps 2021 renewal premium with 25% NCD, and refund them 
the difference between what they paid and this figure.
Allow Mrs and Mr P five years NCD (25%) at 2022 renewal, subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy, and assuming that no further claims have been made by Mrs 
and Mr P.
Pay Mrs and Mr P £150 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. Its my 
understanding that this amount has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman