DRN-4440134
The complaint
Ms S complains about Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as Collinson Insurances 
(Astrenska) decision to decline her claim under her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms S travelled abroad but, when she arrived at her destination, her baggage didnt arrive 
until around a month later. So, Ms S made a claim to the airline who paid her £1,519.53.   
Ms S says this was compensation for her delayed baggage and having to buy items to 
enable her to continue with her trip. Ms S says, when her baggage arrived, one suitcase had 
a damaged lock and she found there were items missing so she made a claim under her 
policy. Astrenska paid Ms S £250 for her delayed baggage but declined her claim for her 
damaged and missing items on the basis the airline had already compensated Ms S for this. 
Ms S complained and said the compensation from the airline was for her delayed baggage 
and didnt factor in her missing items. 
Astrenska responded and explained Ms Ss claim for the delayed baggage had been paid 
correctly at the policy limit of £250. Astrenska explained the compensation received from the 
airline was for the loss, delay or damage of Ms Ss baggage. They said, the amount Ms S is 
claiming, for the damaged and missing items, is less than the amount paid by the airline. So, 
as Ms S had already been compensated for the loss, delay and damage to her property, 
Astrenska wouldnt consider any payment. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Ms S and Astrenska on 9 October 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows:  
    
My starting point is Ms Ss travel insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and, under a section headed Baggage it says cover is provided for 
Delayed baggage and Lost, stolen or damaged baggage. In relation to delayed 
baggage claims it says, in the event baggage is temporarily lost, Astrenska will pay 
for the replacement of essential items  up to a maximum of £250. In relation to lost, 
stolen or damaged baggage claims it says, cover is provided for loss, theft or 
accidental damage to a policyholders personal belongings during their trip  up to a 
maximum of £5,000. The policy also lists general exclusions and says the policy 
wont cover Costs recoverable elsewhere.    
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with 
minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint 
and the main areas of dispute. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute around there being an insured event here, or 
of Ms S having a claim under the Delayed baggage and Lost, stolen or damaged 
baggage sections of the policy. The dispute here relates to Astrenskas decision to 
decline to pay Ms Ss claim for the damaged and missing items on the basis she has 
already received compensation for this from the airline  which they say covers loss, 
delay or damage to her property. Astrenska say the compensation from the airline 
would be deducted from the settlement irrespective of whether the compensation 
was for loss or delay. Ms S feels this is unfair as the payment from the airline was for 
the delayed baggage and Ms S having to purchase replacement items, but not the 
damaged and missing items. 
From the information Ive seen, its clear Astrenska have looked into two separate 
claims for Ms S. I say this because theyve assigned two separate claim references  
one for the delayed baggage claim and one for the damaged and missing items. In 
addition to this, the policy lists these under two separate sections. So, Im satisfied 
its reasonable to treat these as two separate claims. Theres no dispute Ms S has 
already received compensation from the airline. But, given the policy says Astrenska 
wont cover costs which are recoverable elsewhere, I understand why they wouldnt 
want to cover a claim in circumstances where a policyholder has already received 
compensation for the subject matter of the claim. So, Ive looked at the 
communication between Ms S and the airline to determine what their payment 
reflects. 
Astrenska say the airline has confirmed, Under the Montreal Convention, liability for 
loss, delay or damage to baggage is limited to They say this demonstrates the 
damaged and missing items Ms S is claiming for has already been paid by the airline. 
But Ms S contacts the airline to seek clarity on the position with the payment 
received. The airline email Ms S and explain they received a delayed baggage 
and missing items claim from Ms S. They confirm they paid $1,648.58 USD which 
was the maximum amount allowed under their Limits of Liability. They explain the 
remainder, in the sum of $1,851.42 USD, was declined. Ms S asks the airline to 
clarify whether their payment took into account her claim for missing items or whether 
this part was declined. The airline then says, The total amount you were claiming 
was 3,500, This included 3,156.71 in delay expenses and 407.08 for missing 
contents. I paid you 1,648.58 from the delay expenses.
So, taking this into account, Im not persuaded the compensation Ms S received from 
the airline takes into account her damaged and missing items claim. Its clear a claim 
was made, but I think the airlines response makes it clear the payment made relates 
only to the expenses incurred by Ms S as a result of her delayed baggage. So, I dont 
think its fair in the circumstances for Astrenska to decline Ms Ss claim for damaged 
and missing items on the basis she has already received compensation for lost, 
delayed or damaged items. 
Ive taken into account the general exclusion around costs being recoverable 
elsewhere, but the information shows Ms S has attempted to claim this from the 
airline, but this part of the claim wasnt successful  so I cant say the claim for the 
damaged and missing items is recoverable elsewhere. In these circumstances, I 
think Astrenska have unreasonably declined the claim. So I think the fair outcome is 
for Astrenska to settle Ms Ss claim. 
I can see Astrenska have already paid Ms S £250 for her claim under the delayed 
baggage section of the policy. So, in applying the general exclusion mentioned 
above, its clear these costs have been recovered from elsewhere. 
In addition to this, under the section relating to Lost, stolen or damaged baggage, it 
says if Ms S has also made a claim under the delayed baggage section, then this 
amount will be deducted from the amount claimed under the Lost, stolen or 
damaged baggage section. So, I think its reasonable in the circumstances for 
Astrenska to deduct the £250 already paid from the settlement amount in relation to 
the claim for the damaged and missing items.  
So, subject to any further comments from Ms S or Astrenska, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint and require Astrenska to settle the claim.    Following my provisional decision, no representations have been made by either party. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no representations being made, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. So, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Astrenska have unfairly declined Ms Ss claim for damaged and 
missing items. So, Astrenska should settle Ms Ss claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. Astrenska should add 8% simple interest per year on the settlement 
amount from 12 January 2023 (the date they originally declined the claim for damaged and 
missing items) to the date of settlement. Astrenska should provide Ms S with a certificate 
showing any taxation deducted. Astrenska are able to deduct the £250 paid to Ms S from the 
claim settlement relating to the damaged and missing items claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Astrenska Insurance Limited trading as 
Collinson Insurance must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting 
things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman