DRN-3482738
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) issued a default notice on his loan account 
during an agreed Covid payment holiday, and then unfairly closed his bank accounts without 
any formal notice. 
What happened
Mr S says in March 2020 he contacted HSBC as he was experiencing financial issues as a 
result of the Covid pandemic. At the time HSBC agreed a one-month breather period for his 
loan account and latterly agreed a three- month payment holiday the following month. Mr S 
says despite this he received arrears letters from HSBC, and although it accepted this was 
an error and paid him £50 by way of compensation for its mistake and removed any late 
payment markers on his credit file, HSBC still went on to issue a default notice on his loan 
account, even though he had an agreed payment holiday in place. 
Mr S says on querying the default notice with HSBC he was told that his accounts were 
subject to a review and subsequently told the only way he could prevent the default on his 
loan account, was for him to pay it off in full, by visiting a local branch. Mr S says that was 
difficult for him, given not only had he just come out of an agreed Covid payment holiday, the 
branches had restricted opening hours, making it very difficult for him to visit during those 
opening times and additionally his brother was shielding due to a health condition, so he was 
reluctant to take that risk. 
Mr S says he did manage to make a payment to his loan account of £300 which was 
rejected by HSBC without explanation. Mr S says he later managed to make a payment of 
£450 towards the loan but was then told over the telephone he couldnt make a part 
repayment and needed to clear the loan account in full to avoid the default. Mr S says he 
was then told over the telephone following a review of his accounts, HSBC had decided to 
end the banking relationship, but he hadnt received anything in writing from them about this 
or the fact it had restricted the access to his accounts, even though he had made contact 
with them on several occasions before. Mr S says HSBC again accepted it hadnt informed 
him his bank accounts had been frozen and were to be closed, and it offered him £150 
additional compensation.  
Mr S says he remains unhappy that HSBC could issue him default notices when he wasnt in 
default and then go on to close his bank accounts without any formal warning or notice. Mr S 
wants HSBC to remove the default marker on his credit file and compensate him for the 
trouble and upset it has caused him.  
HSBC says it accepts it made mistakes at the time the Covid payment holiday was in place 
and that it didnt write to inform Mr S it was restricting access to his bank account and ending 
the banking relationship- but Mr S had been compensated for that. HSBC says it was 
entitled to end the banking relationship and had done nothing wrong. HSBC says Mr S had 
been sent a default notice and although it may have been difficult for him to make the 
payment to clear the loan, it was possible for him to do so. 
Mr S wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt although HSBC had made some mistakes regarding the Covid payment 
holiday it had put matters right and compensated Mr S fairly for that. 
The investigator says in certain circumstances HSBC are entitled to close a bank account 
without notice, so no error had been made here. The investigator also says HSBC had 
issued a default notice in July 2020, but as Mr S hadnt repaid the loan account in full, the 
default was correctly registered. The investigator says given HSBC had paid a further £150 
by way of compensation for the various service-related issues, that was a fair outcome in the 
circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr S to be issued with 
arrears letters and a default notice on his loan account with HSBC, even though a Covid 
payment holiday had been agreed with them. Additionally, I can understand it would have 
been inconvenient and distressing for him to be told HSBC wanted to end their banking 
relationship and that his loan account needed immediate repayment, without any reason or 
written notice being provided to him.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC acted fairly when it defaulted Mr Ss 
loan account and told him it was going to close his bank account with them. 
The first thing to say here is I have to take into account this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike. 
Mr Ss complaint is twofold, firstly the way in which HSBC dealt with the Covid payment 
holiday that was agreed with him and secondly that he was defaulted on his loan account 
and was told over the telephone, without any prior notice, that his bank account was 
restricted and was to be closed. 
When looking at the issues Mr S faced when the Covid payment holiday was agreed with 
HSBC, its fair to say HSBC have accepted it made mistakes initially, issuing the arrears 
letter in June 2020 as Mr S had an agreed payment holiday in place until 2 July 2020. So it 
was only right that HSBC removed any late payment markers from Mr Ss credit file and paid 
him some compensation for that. From the information I have seen, and the contact notes 
made available, there was added confusion when HSBC went on to issue a default notice on 
1 July 2020, even though the agreed Covid payment holiday hadnt come to an end yet. 
What seems to have happened, without Mr Ss knowledge, is by late June 2020 HSBC had 
taken the decision to exit the banking relationship following a review of the bank account. 
So, it would seem the default notice issued was more than likely linked to that decision, 
rather than any arrears having built up on the loan, as of course Mr S was still in an agreed 
Covid payment holiday. 
More confusing is the default notice dated 1 July 2020, demanded a payment of around £185 to be settled before 22 July 2020, but when Mr S queried this with HSBC he was then 
told he needed to pay it off in full and not a partial payment and that could only be done by 
visiting a branch. Mr S has told this service it was very difficult to pay in at the branch as it 
had limited opening hours due to the Covid pandemic and he wanted to restrict such visits, 
as his brother was shielding due to a health issue. 
Mr S says he had tried previously to pay a sum of £300 into the loan account, but it had 
been rejected by HSBC as it had already restricted his bank account, but it failed to tell him 
that. Mr S went on to pay £450 into his loan account, which was credited in mid-July 2020, 
but from the information I have seen, the decision to end the banking relationship had 
already been taken, so only its full repayment would have prevented the default being 
registered. 
So with that in mind, its fair to say HSBCs decision to close the banking relationship was 
the main contributor to the problems Mr S faced, and why the default was registered on his 
credit file. 
While HSBC have accepted it made some mistakes over this time and have paid some 
compensation for that, I dont think that goes far enough. I say this because although HSBC 
are entitled to end a banking relationship, I would expect a formal written notice to be given, 
even if its to say its with immediate effect. I cant see HSBC did that. Im not persuaded by 
HSBCs argument it acted fairly here. While it has made a business decision to end a 
banking relationship, the default notice it sent Mr S was incorrect and confusing and it 
needed a telephone call from him to be told he needed to pay the loan account in full and he 
could only do so, by visiting a branch at the height of the pandemic.  
I think its fair to say that would have been very challenging for Mr S in the circumstances, 
not to mention he was just leaving an agreed Covid payment holiday, meaning it was 
unlikely that Mr S would have been in a financial  position to pay off a loan of this sum in full. 
Its reasonable to say that decision by HSBC meant it was almost inevitable Mr S was to be 
defaulted - even so, Mr S did make a lump sum payment of £450 to reduce the loan, before 
the expiry date of the default notice issued. 
As I said earlier, although HSBC are entitled to end a banking relationship thats not to say it 
shouldnt take reasonable steps to allow Mr S to comply with that, and first and foremost to 
formally tell him of its decision in writing - even allowing for the staffing challenges HSBC 
may have faced at that time. Given the backdrop of the pandemic here, I would have thought 
it even more important, given the opportunity for Mr S to make alternative banking 
arrangements, would have been much more challenging for him. 
I am satisfied a more practical outcome would have been for HSBC to have still exited the 
main banking relationship, if it so wished, but allowed the remaining months of the loan to 
run its course or allow reasonable time for Mr S to pay off the loan. But here, to simply 
default Mr S and mark his credit file, which would remain in place for six years, seems to be 
disproportional. But we are where we are here, and I understand HSBC have since written 
off the residual outstanding loan balance of around £180, which Mr S has benefited from. 
With that in mind, and taking everything into account, I propose HSBC now remove the 
default marker on Mr Ss credit file and pay him a further £250 by way of compensation for 
the inconvenience and upset it has caused. 
While HSBC will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I am satisfied this is a fair 
outcome here. 
Both Mr S and HSBC responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr S and HSBC until 31 May 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Mr S has accepted my provisional decision, but HSBC didnt agree and asked me to 
consider further points it raised. 
The first thing to say here is, as I said in my provisional decision, I am not suggesting HSBC 
arent entitled to exit a banking relationship if it wishes to. But the background circumstances 
surrounding this complaint arent straightforward. 
HSBC have accepted it made mistakes when it gave incorrect information on the default 
notice it issued, but feel it had made clear to Mr S subsequently, that he needed to repay in 
full the amount of his loan account balance and not the arrears amount detailed within that 
notice. 
While I understand what HSBC are saying here, its worth saying not only was the arrears 
letter sent incorrectly, as Mr S was in an agreed payment holiday, the default notice itself 
was also sent before the Covid payment holiday had ended, let alone the fact HSBC actually 
wanted the loan repaid in full  so its fair to say this would have been very confusing for Mr 
S at a very challenging time. Its also worth saying that Mr S did make attempts to pay into 
the loan account, but again was given misleading advice - so its fair to say HSBC made it 
difficult for him to make these payments. 
HSBC says it didnt feel Mr S would have been in a financial position to make good, the 
payment needed to clear his loan account, so it had marked the default correctly on Mr Ss 
credit file and it has an obligation to do so. While I take HSBCs point here, Im not fully 
convinced by its argument and it hasnt provided any evidence to support this, other than to 
say Mr S wasnt able to fully repay the remaining loan account balance until 22 September 
2020. But here, Mr S paid £450 off the loan account balance before the expiry of the default 
notice, which HSBC have accepted wasnt correctly issued in the first place.
The issue I have here, isnt so much HSBC exiting the relationship  it was entitled to do 
that, but I cant see it has acted reasonably, given the attempts Mr S made to comply with its 
request, to then register a default  knowing it would impact his credit file for six years as a 
result.
HSBC have now informed this service that it was Mr S who cleared the remaining 
outstanding balance on his loan account and not them writing it off, it simply wrote off a £100 
balance on his main bank account and this point is noted. 
Finally, HSBC have stated it doesnt need to give notice to close its customers bank 
accounts if it feels it should, following a review, and the Covid backdrop wouldnt change its 
decision to do that. While that may be correct, I would like to think HSBC would take into 
account the attempts Mr S made to comply with its demands at this unprecedented time, the 
misleading advice and flawed notices it issued, before it took the decision to default Mr S 
given the impact that would have  Im not satisfied it did that here. 
With that in mind, I see no reason to change or alter my provisional decision, so my final 
decision remains the same. Putting things right
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to remove the default marker on Mr Ss credit file and pay him a 
further £250 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to remove the default marker on Mr Ss credit file and pay him a 
further £250 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman