DRN-1705184
 
The complaint
Mr W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2010. The policy was added to 
Mr Ws credit card account when he phoned Capital One to activate the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W says he wasnt aware that PPI had been applied to his account, or that it was 
optional. Ive seen a copy of his signed credit agreement for the credit card. It 
includes a box to tick if the cardholder wishes to purchase Optional Capital One 
Payment Protection Insurance. I think it was clear that the PPI wasnt compulsory. 
And the box wasn't ticked. So it looks as if Mr W initially decided he didn't want the 
PPI.
 
But Capital Ones records show that PPI was added to Mr Ws credit card account 
after he received the card, when he phoned to activate it. Capital One hasnt been 
able to provide a recording of the phone call. I dont think thats surprising or 
unreasonable, given how long ago the sale took place. But Ive seen a copy of the 
script that Capital Ones representative would have used. Based on that, Im 
satisfied, on balance, that the fact that the PPI was optional would, again, have been 
made clear to Mr W, and that hed have needed to consent in order for the cover to 
be applied to his account.
 Ive also borne in mind that the premiums for the PPI were shown reasonably clearly 
on Mr Ws monthly credit card statements. If he hadnt wanted the cover, Id have 
expected him to raise this with Capital One at the time. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that he did so.
 
Taking everything into account, I think Capital One made Mr W aware that the PPI 
was optional and that he chose to take it  although I can understand how he may no 
longer remember this, so long after the event.
 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was for Mr W to decide whether he wanted the cover, knowing 
what alternative means hed have had of making his credit card repayments if hed 
been off sick, or if hed lost his job. But Capital One still had a responsibility to give 
Mr W enough information to enable him to decide whether the cover was right for 
him.
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Mr W chose to take out the policy. So he appears to have 
wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now, so many 
years later. Based on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, he 
wasnt affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations  for example 
provisions about unusual employment situations or existing medical conditions.
 
Mr Ws told us hed only have been entitled to statutory sick pay from his employer at 
the time. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. So given his limited sick pay entitlement, I think 
the PPI could have been useful for Mr W, especially as hes told us that aside from 
payments from his employer, he didnt have any other means he could have used to 
make his monthly credit card repayments if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his job. 
Whats more, the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy 
pay Mr W received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet other 
day-to-day expenses.
 
The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr W 
couldnt afford it. And as he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at 
any time if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the 
policy.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr W would have made a different 
decision about taking out the PPI even if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think hed still have taken it.
 
This means that Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
 Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Mr W, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman