DRN-4033887
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that when Mrs T lost her engagement ring and an eternity ring, 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wouldnt pay the full value of the rings, as they were 
unable to provide receipts or valuations to confirm their value.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have household buildings and contents insurance with Lloyds. Their policy 
classes jewellery as high risk items and says that if a claim is made for a high risk item, 
Lloyds will only pay up to the individual item limit shown in the policy schedule, unless the 
item is named on the policy. Mrs Ts rings arent listed as specified items on the policy 
schedule. Personal belongings are covered up to £5,000, with an individual item limit of 
£3,000.
In May 2022 Mrs T made a claim for her engagement ring and an eternity ring which she told 
Lloyds shed lost when gardening. She said shed been wearing gardening gloves, she took 
them off as she got hot, and believes the rings came off her finger and were thrown away 
with garden rubbish.
Mrs T doesnt have receipts for either ring. She says both rings were bought by her husband 
about 18 years ago. Her engagement ring was an 18-carat white gold solitaire diamond ring 
and her eternity ring was a half band 18 carat white gold diamond ring.
When she submitted her claim to Lloyds, they asked for proof of purchase which Mrs T 
couldnt provide. And she said shes never had the rings valued. Although she was able to 
provide photographs of her wearing the rings. 
Lloyds obtained a valuation of the rings based on the photographs and description Mrs T 
and this was £17,400 for the engagement ring and £5,700 for the eternity ring. Based on the 
potential value of the rings Lloyds said theyd expect Mrs T to be able to provide evidence of 
their value. And without this they could only assess the value of the rings based on nine 
carat gold and cubic zirconia stones. This gave a value of £430. The policy has an excess of 
£100, so Lloyds offered Mrs T £330 for her rings.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with this and raised a complaint. Lloyds didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said Mr and Mrs Ts policy booklet confirmed that when making a claim, 
they might be asked to provide proof that they owned an item and of its value. Theyd 
provided a photograph of the rings but hadnt been able to provide receipts or valuations to 
confirm their value. So they werent able to increase their offer.
Mr and Mrs T then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case but didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said that that their policy required Mr and Mrs T to provide proof 
of ownership and the value of the items they were claiming for. Given the value of the rings, 
based on Mrs Ts description and the photographs shed provided, our investigator said 
shes have expected them to be declared and listed on the policy schedule. And in the 
absence of any evidence of the rings value, she thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
make an offer based on nine carat gold and cubic zirconia stones.  
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the case came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 February 2023. And in it I said: -
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy provides £75,000 cover for their household contents. It classes 
jewellery as high risk items and theres a single item limit of £3,000 with a policy excess of 
£100. If items arent specified the claim is considered under the personal belongings section 
of the policy with a £3,000 single item limit, and an overall claim limit of £5,000.
Lloyds havent declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim. Theyve confirmed that they accept she 
owned the rings. But have said that as Mr and Mrs T havent been able to provide either 
proof of purchase or a valuation for the rings, theyve made an offer based on their valuers 
assessment, on the basis that the rings were nine carat gold with cubic zirconia stones. 
Lloyds havent made any further enquiries theyve simply made an offer based on the 
valuers assessment. And theyve said if the rings were made of 18 carat white gold and 
diamonds, as Mr and Mrs T have said, theyd have expected them to be able to provide 
valuations.  
The policy states that items claimed for must be owned by the policyholders. Mrs T has 
provided photographs of her wearing the rings, and Lloyds havent disputed that she owns 
them. The policy clearly states that if an item is lost or damaged the policyholder may be 
asked to prove they own what theyre claiming for, and proof of its value.
Lloyds havent disputed that the rings were lost in the circumstances described by Mrs T. 
The issue is that she hasnt been able to provide either receipts from when the rings were 
purchased or a valuation.
Lloyds have said theyd expect the rings Mr and Mrs T have described to have been valued 
and to be individually listed on the policy. 
Mr and Mrs T have said that Lloyds should have done more to make them aware that if they 
needed to make a claim, theyd need to provide proof of ownership and value. I dont accept 
this as its clearly stated in the policy that they may be required to provide both in the event 
of a claim.
Lloyds appear to have accepted that theyve been provided with sufficient proof that Mrs T 
owned the rings. Mr and Mrs T have said that the rings were bought about 18 years ago. I 
dont consider it particularly unusual that they cant provide receipts after this time. While 
some people have valuations for all the jewellery they own, I dont think its that unusual not 
to have valuations, particularly when the rings have been owned for so long and are worn on 
a daily basis. And I think its reasonable to say Mr and Mrs T may not have known how much 
the rings were potentially now worth.
Lloyds offer to settle Mr and Mrs Ts claim was £430 less their £100 policy excess. And I 
need to consider if this is reasonable. While I think the rings should have been declared as 
individual items on Mr and Mrs Ts policy, this didnt happen, and I cant say now whether 
this would have made a difference to their claim. 
The policy doesnt say Lloyds will ask for a valuation when individual items are listed, it says 
they may ask for proof of ownership and valuation when a claim is made. So even if theyd 
listed the rings individually, they might still be in the same position of being unable to provide proof of the rings value now.
If Lloyds had any concerns about the claim, they had the opportunity to make further 
enquiries and to speak to Mr and Mrs T. But they didnt do this. They made an offer based 
on the valuation they obtained, assumed the rings were made of nine carat gold and cubic 
zirconia. So essentially treating the rings as costume jewellery.
The policy states that if Mr and Mrs T have new high-risk items, they need to let Lloyds know 
or they wouldnt be covered under this section. But they had the rings when they purchased 
their cover and I havent seen any evidence that they knew they were worth the amount 
Lloyds valuer has suggested.
It follows that I dont think its fair for Lloyds to make an offer based on the valuation of the 
rings as costume jewellery. I think Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs Ts under the personal 
belongings section of their policy. Mrs T lost two rings but as the policy limit is £5,000 for 
unspecified items Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs T £5,000 for the lost rings, less the 
applicable policy excess.  
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision, weve asked Mr and Mrs T whether they could 
provide any further information about where the rings were purchased. Whether they were 
listed on any earlier insurance policies and whether they have pictures of her wearing the 
rings at round the time they were bought, e.g. Mrs T wearing the engagement ring on her 
wedding day.
Mrs T has told us that shes provided all the information she can. But she has said that she 
thought shed added her engagement ring to the policy as a high-risk item. She thinks her 
engagement ring was listed as a specified item on earlier policies, with other insurers, but 
she doesnt have any copies now of those policies. Shes also said that Mr T doesnt 
remember where he bought the rings other than it was from a small, family-run, independent 
jeweller. 
Shes also said that she didnt wear her engagement ring on her wedding day, just her 
wedding band, so there are no photos showing it. And the eternity ring was bought for her by 
Mr T for their first wedding anniversary. She doesnt have any photos going back this far, 
and shes provided all the photos she has.
Shes also told us thats shes now suffering from anxiety and depression and this case is 
now causing her a great deal of stress.   
Lloyds have said that Ive accepted that the policy wording is clear. And Mr and Mrs T would 
have been aware of what they require from customers to prove they own the items being 
claimed for and what theyre worth.
Theyve also said that when a claim for jewellery is made, they refer this to their jewellery 
provider to validate the claim, and as theyre experts Lloyds say they rely on their 
professional opinion. They say their experts process is to discuss the claim with the 
customer at length, taking all the details, and once this information is gathered its passed to 
their assessment team, who use this information, along with their expertise to validate the 
items being claimed for settlement purposes. 
Lloyds say that their jewellery experts said Mrs T was quite vague in providing specific 
details and she couldnt remember where the items were purchased. Looking at the 
photographs Mrs T had provided they said the solitaire diamond was abnormally large and couldnt they tell if the diamond was real, or the carat of the gold. They also said a diamond 
of this size would have come with a certificate of authenticity, and while she might not have 
kept the original receipt, theyd have expected the certificate to have been retained. 
And as Mr and Mrs T werent able to provide sufficient evidence that the gold was 18 carat, 
or the diamonds real, they based their offer on their experts professional opinion. 
Lloyds have also referred to two decisions where in the absence of receipts or valuations the 
ombudsman said it was fair for Lloyds to rely on their experts valuation, when making an 
offer in respect of a lost ring. And theyve asked me to take this into consideration in this 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information Lloyds have provided I cant see that their jewellery expert carried 
out a particularly detailed investigation of Mr and Mrs Ts claim. They highlighted some 
concerns about the circumstances in which the rings were lost. But as Lloyds have accepted 
the claim, I dont need to consider these further.
The issue remains the lack of evidence of the value of the rings. Mr and Mrs T cant provide 
either receipts or valuations for the rings. I said that I can understand why they might not 
have receipts, given the time that has passed since they bought the rings. Lloyds have now 
said that even if they dont have receipts, they should have been issued with a certificate of 
authenticity. But as Mrs T has told us she cant provide any further documents, then she 
doesnt have these either. Im sure if she did have, shed have provided copies.
I appreciate that Mrs T is finding dealing with this case stressful and I sorry to hear thats 
shes suffering from anxiety and depression. But when a complaint is brought to us, we often 
have to ask the parties for further information. But I understand that shes provided what she 
can.
Lloyds jewellery expert recommended that Mr and Mrs Ts claims history was reviewed. I 
can see that this was done and didnt highlight any concerns.
I accept that Mr and Mrs Ts policy says that in the event of a claim they might be required to 
provide proof of purchase, or a valuation. And they should have declared both rings as 
specific high-risk items on the policy. But even if theyd done this, they might find themselves 
in just the same position. 
I remain of the opinion that given the time that has passed its not unreasonable for them not 
to be able to provide receipts for the rings. I also think its entirely reasonable to say they 
may not have known how much the rings could now be worth. Mrs T has told us shes only 
ever cleaned the rings herself, so theyve not been seen by an expert who might have 
alerted her to their potential value. Although she does say she thought shed listed her 
engagement ring as a specific item on the policy.
And I dont think a potential valuation of the rings based on photographs provided by Mr and 
Mrs T, at a sum far in excess of the single item cover provided by the valuers, is enough for 
Lloyds to say they cant have genuinely have been 18 carat gold and diamonds, and then 
make an offer based on nine carat gold and cubic zirconia stones. They havent provided 
any evidence, other than an opinion based on a photograph, that the rings were more likely 
to be 9 carat gold and cubic zirconia. And for them to limit the claim theyd need to show this. And while there may have been other cases where an ombudsman has said it was fair for 
Lloyds to make an offer based on their experts valuation, I dont think it is in this case. And 
we look at every case on the individual facts. 
So it follows that I dont think its fair for Lloyds to make an offer based on the valuation of 
the rings as costume jewellery. I think Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs Ts under the personal 
belongings section of their policy. Mrs T lost two rings but as the policy limit is £5,000 for 
unspecified items Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs T £5,000 for the lost rings, less the 
applicable policy excess.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
And to put things right I require them to pay Mr T and Mrs Ts claim under the personal 
belongings section of their policy. Mrs T lost two rings but as the policy limit is £5,000 for 
unspecified items Lloyds should pay Mr T and Mrs T £5,000 for the lost rings, less the 
applicable policy excess.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman