DRN-2876809
The complaint
Miss D complains about the actions of Bank of Scotland plc in placing a default on her credit 
file and selling the debt to a different business.
What happened
In October 2015 Miss D took out a loan with Bank of Scotland. She borrowed just under 
£12,000, repayable over 64 months at £323.32 a month.
From around early 2019 Miss D had trouble making the monthly payments. The bank sent 
arrears letters and, in June 2019 agreed to a three-month payment plan. A letter of 11 June 
2019 set out the terms of the plan. It said that the plan would run for three months, at the 
end of which Miss D would need to make the payments due under the loan agreement. 
Miss D says she explained that the bank had asked that she contact it at the end of the three 
months, but that she had said she would be unable to do so. Instead, she asked that the 
bank contact her by telephone  which it agreed to do. 
In the event, the bank did not contact Miss D by telephone. It sent her a default notice on 24 
September 2019, followed by a further letter on 12 October 2019 threatening to end the 
agreement and/or to sell the debt to an external company. It sold the debt to a company, P, 
in December 2019.
Bank of Scotland says that, when Miss D complained in early 2021, it sent her a summary 
resolution letter and paid her £100, which she accepted in full and final settlement of her 
complaint that she had not been contacted by telephone in or around September 2019. It 
accepted that this was its usual practice, but that it had not been followed in Miss Ds case. 
Miss D referred the matter to this service. Initially, our investigator was minded to uphold the 
complaint and recommended that the bank remove the default from Miss Ds credit file. The 
investigator reached that view, however, largely because the bank had not at that point 
responded to requests for information. She changed her view when she received the banks 
documents, including copies of arrears letters and the default notice. 
Miss D did not accept the investigators amended view and asked that the complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. She said, amongst other things, that she had assumed the 
existing arrangements would continue as she had not heard from Bank of Scotland at the 
end of the three month payment arrangement. Miss D says those arrangements, had they 
continued, would have cleared the arrears after a further three months.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D has explained that she was unable to call the bank or to receive post, and I accept 
that was the case. The bank accepts too that it should have called Miss D and has paid her 
compensation in recognition of that. I must consider therefore whether it ought to do any 
more. 
There is no dispute that Miss D was in breach of the loan agreement, because she had not 
made payments on time and was in arrears. In such circumstances the terms of the 
agreement allowed the bank to send a default notice, end the agreement and sell the debt to 
a third party. It agreed a repayment plan in June 2019, but only for three months  as Miss D 
understood. But it made clear that the contractual terms would continue to apply and that 
payments should resume in line with those terms at the end of the three-month period. 
Miss D says that she assumed the payment arrangement would continue when she had not 
heard from the bank. But the terms of the arrangement said very clearly the opposite. There 
was, in my view, no logical reason for that assumption, given the arrangement was limited in 
time, not open-ended. 
Miss D has explained the impact the default is having on her ability to borrow elsewhere. I 
dont doubt what she says, but the default does accurately reflect the fact that she did not 
make the payments that were due. Im satisfied the bank was entitled to act as it did. 
My final decision
For these reasons I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to do any more to resolve Miss Ds 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman