DRN-4511822
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform (Co-op) didnt write-off a 
shortfall balance on his buy to let mortgage, which resulted from the compulsory purchase of 
his property by his local authority.
What happened
Mr D took a buy to let mortgage for approximately £73,000 in 2006. The mortgage had a 
term of 20 years and payments were based on interest only.
In 2017, Mr Ds property was subject to a compulsory purchase order (CPO) by his local 
authority. The evidence available indicates that Mr D accepted an offer from the local 
authority of £53,500, in July 2017. And, in August 2017, £53,500 was paid to Co-op to 
partially redeem his mortgage. But that left a balance on Mr Ds mortgage account of 
approximately £11,000.
Mr D says he had no choice in the matter and the local authority set the price it would pay for 
his property. He said that, when another of his properties had been subject to a CPO, the 
lender had written-off the remaining balance, and he assumed the same had happened in 
this instance. Mr D also says Co-op have never sent him any statements following the partial 
redemption, and he only found out he had a balance outstanding when a check was made 
on his credit file. And he says Co-op should have taken legal action when it became 
apparent there would be a shortfall so that he would be protected against the circumstances 
he now finds himself in. Mr D complained to Co-op.
In its final response letter dated 26 July 2023, Co-op said it wouldnt simply write-off the 
debt. And, although it isnt currently chasing Mr D for repayment, he remains liable for the 
balance until it is repaid in full. Co-op also said it wrote to Mr D, most recently, on               
24 February 2022, confirming the outstanding balance and including a statement of the 
account.
Dissatisfied with Co-ops response to his complain, Mr D asked us to consider it. In its 
responses to our enquiries, Co-op said it confirmed to Mr D in a letter dated 31 May 2017  
before the partial redemption  that he would be liable for any shortfall. And it said it had 
sent him annual mortgage statements which show the shortfall.
Our investigator didnt think Co-op has acted unfairly and was satisfied it had the right to 
seek repayment of the outstanding balance. She said the copies of the mortgage statements 
provided by Co-op show that they were addressed correctly, and shes seen no evidence to 
suggest they were not delivered successfully. She also explained that Co-op has until 
August 2029 to begin recovery action  thats 12 years from the partial redemption and no 
subsequent payments by Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree. Hes not specifically disputed any of our investigators findings, but as he 
disagrees, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Ds complaint, Ive thought about whether Co-op should have written-off the 
outstanding balance after the partial redemption on Mr Ds mortgage. And Ive considered 
whether its likely, given the evidence available, Co-op adequately informed Mr D he was still 
liable for the debt.
Should Co-op have written-off the debt?
The evidence available indicates that Mr D purchased his property in 2007. To do that, he 
successfully applied to Co-op for a loan lasting 20 years. And, in exchange for that loan,   
Co-op wanted the property as security for the loan  making it a mortgage loan. So, in its 
simplest form, Mr Ds relationship with Co-op was as a borrower, and he owned the property. 
Co-op is the lender but did not own the property. Co-op had a right to take possession of the 
property should Mr D default on the mortgage loan.
The mortgage conditions are such that they allow either party certain rights, both generally 
and in specific circumstances  and, in this case, the mortgage conditions are designed to 
allow Mr D to let the property. But the specific circumstances of a compulsory purchase 
order are not covered in the mortgage conditions, so Ive thought about the fairness of      
Co-ops stance with the basic lender/borrower relationship  as outlined above  in mind.
As part of the purchase process Mr D would have engaged the services of a conveyancing 
solicitor. Part of the solicitors role would have been to carry out searches to safeguard 
against buying a property that was in foreseeable risk of events that may negatively affect its 
value. Given that process was undertaken, I think its fair to conclude that Mr D wasnt made 
aware of plans by the local authority for a compulsory purchase, probably because any such 
plans were either non-existent at that time or were not public knowledge. But I think that also 
means Co-op couldnt have known either. So, I dont think theres anything to suggest that 
Co-op shouldnt have lent to Mr D because of any such concerns. 
While, in all likelihood, Mr D did not know of the risk to the property  over and above the risk 
of a potential future CPO on any property, he did agree to the offer made by the local 
authority. I understand that he may have felt he had very little option but to agree, but it was 
for him to agree that offer as the owner of the property. I note that Co-op also accepted the 
offer, as an interested party, but it is clear from the evidence available that it did so only after 
Mr D had already accepted. Its also worth noting here that, in a letter dated 15 June 2017, 
Co-op appears to be encouraging Mr D to challenge the offer made by the local authority. 
But its unclear whether that letter led to any action by Mr D.
I think its unlikely that the compulsory purchase could have proceeded with Co-ops 
acceptance alone. So, I dont think Co-op had influence on the offer Mr D accepted, though I 
understand that neither party may have had much option but to accept. And, as Co-op 
wasnt the owner of the property, I dont think it was obliged to resist the CPO if Mr D hadnt.
As the owner of the property, Mr D suffered the loss of the property being purchased for an 
amount that appears to have been lower than its open market value. Mr D owed a specific 
amount  the mortgage loan balance  to Co-op, irrespective of the propertys value or sale 
price. So, when that mortgage balance wasnt cleared by the sale proceeds of the property, 
albeit in the most unfortunate circumstances for Mr D, the balance remained payable by him. 
The loss to Co-op is that it no longer has the property as security for the remaining balance 
Mr D owes.Does the evidence indicate Co-op informed Mr D of the outstanding balance?
Co-op has provided copies of correspondence from the time of the compulsory purchase. 
Ive seen, in correspondence from before the compulsory purchase  a letter dated             
31 May 2017  that Co-op specifically said Mr D would remain liable for any shortfall 
following receipt of the proceeds of the compulsory purchase order. And Ive seen annual 
mortgage statements dated after the compulsory purchase showing the remaining balance. 
All of the correspondence Ive seen appears to have been correctly addressed, and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it wouldnt have been sent. So, even if Mr D received none of that 
correspondence, I dont think Co-op did less than I would expect, to inform Mr D of his 
liability.
Summary
As owner of the property, I think the loss incurred due to the compulsory purchase of Mr Ds 
property was his. I havent seen anything to suggest that his liability for the full repayment of 
the loan ought to have ended with its partial redemption from the proceeds of the 
compulsory purchase. So, I dont think Co-op has acted unfairly by not writing-off the 
balance. And I dont think Co-op failed to inform Mr D of his ongoing liability for the 
outstanding balance. So, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc trading 
as Platform.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman