DRN-3327845
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC havent refunded money she lost as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2018 Mrs C sold some shares in a well-known investment bank based outside of the UK. 
In March 2020 Mrs C was contacted by a merchant claiming that the same investment 
company she previously held shares in was being taken over and that they had located 
further shares in her name. Mrs C was told the remaining shares could be sold at that time 
for around £53,000. Mrs C says she checked the merchant online and was satisfied it 
appeared legitimate. 
Mrs C was told by the merchant that because she wasnt a citizen in the United States she 
would need to pay taxes towards the sale of her shares. So, Mrs C started to make 
payments from an account she held with another bank. She was then asked to make a 
further payment in August 2020 which she decided to send from her Lloyds account. Mrs C 
went to a branch and made an international transfer of £25,137.27 to the merchant. 
After making this payment Mrs C made three further payments (for £28,542.56 on 26 August 
2020, £14,044.05 on 03 September 2020 and £7,454.50 on 14 September 2020) to the 
merchant via another bank she held an account with  Ill refer to here as D. 
In October 2020 Mrs C contacted Lloyds to raise the scam after she lost contact with the 
merchant. Lloyds raised the scam with the receiving bank the same day, but it couldnt 
retrieve Mrs Cs funds. 
Mrs C remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She said Lloyds 
shouldve done more to protect her money and that she wasnt given a fraud and scams 
warning when she went into the branch. Mrs C said she was questioned by D when she 
made the payment on 26 August 2020 but was happy to make that and the following two 
payments. 
Lloyds told this service that whilst Mrs C was in the branch a member of staff completed a 
high value transfer checklist and discussed scams with her. It said Mrs C also watched the 
banks fraud and scams video and brought to the branch paperwork from the merchant with 
an invoice for the payment. But Mrs C was still happy to proceed with the payment. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that he couldnt be 
certain whether Mrs C was shown a fraud and scams video warning in the branch when she 
made the payment. But he wasnt satisfied that had Lloyds taken the steps he would 
reasonably expect it to in branch, it wouldve made a difference here. The investigator said 
that he felt it was more likely Mrs C wouldve explained the payment was for tax purposes, 
that she had invested with the company before and received a return on her investment. 
The investigator added that Mrs C had also been told by the scammer not to divulge details 
of the company that was being taken over and that when Mrs C was given a fraud and 
scams warning by D she continued to make large payments to the scammer. As a result, the 
investigator didnt think a fraud and scams warning by Lloyds wouldve made a difference 
here. And he was satisfied Lloyds had fairly attempted to recover Mrs Cs money but was 
unfortunately unsuccessful. 
Mrs C disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Lloyds cannot prove 
she was shown a fraud and scams video in the branch on the day she made the payment. 
She added that Lloyds shouldve alerted her to the scam and if it had she wouldnt have 
continued with the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mrs C has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
It is common ground that Mrs C authorised the scam payment totalling £25,137.27. I accept 
that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs C was the victim of a scam. So, 
although it wasnt her intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her account, Mrs C is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Lloyds to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Lloyds has told this service that it did consider the payment unusual and it completed a high 
value checklist with Mrs C in the branch which asked questions about the payment and why 
Mrs C was making it. Lloyds has also explained it does have a video available to show to its 
customers.
Mrs C has said if she was shown that video she wouldnt have continued with the scam. 
Firstly, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds must show this video under the regulations and 
industry best practice to every customer. But Id expect it to ask probing questions of Mrs C if 
it considered the international payment to be sufficiently unusual. And it can take further 
action if it thought Mrs C was likely the victim of a scam after considering her answers to its 
questions. Lloyds has said it considered the payment Mrs C made was unusual, so I need to consider 
whether it did enough to warn Mrs C about fraud and scams and just as importantly, whether 
a warning wouldve made a difference here. 
Mrs C has told the investigator that she had invoices from what seemed to be official US 
Government documents with her in the branch and that she was given a clear fraud and 
scams warning by D when she made a payment towards the same scam a few weeks later. 
Mrs C has told this service that she has only mentioned those later payments because she 
hasnt raised them as a complaint against D and she accepts the scam warning was clear so 
she decided to continue with the payments. 
Ive considered all the evidence carefully. But I agree with the investigator here. That even if 
I was to decide Lloyds didnt provide an adequate scam warning to Mrs C in the branch and 
she wasnt shown the video, I still need to be satisfied that Mrs C receiving such a warning 
wouldve made a difference. And I dont think it wouldve. Only a few weeks later Mrs C has 
said she did receive a fraud and scams warning but was still happy to continue with the 
payments  which were for a significant amount of money. Ive also considered that at the 
point Mrs C received the warning she had already made significant payments towards this 
scam. 
I note the payments through Lloyds and D are larger than the total value of the shares Mrs C 
was originally told she was entitled to when she was first contacted about the scam. I 
understand that scammers can be very persuasive and induce people to part with more of 
their money in order to obtain higher returns as the scam progresses, and Mrs C has 
confirmed that at the time she was making the payments she was satisfied with her own 
research and the conversations she had with the scammer in relation to the sale of those 
shares. She was also told by the scammer not to reveal details about the sales of the shares 
to anyone as it was sensitive information. As a result, Im not satisfied a fraud and scams 
warning from Lloyds wouldve - more likely than not  made a difference here. I think in all 
the circumstances Mrs C wouldve continued with the payment like she did a few weeks 
later. 
Ive seen evidence that Lloyds contacted the receiving bank to try and retrieve Mrs Cs 
funds. But the receiving bank said no money could be returned. So, Im satisfied Lloyds did 
what Id expect it to do in the circumstances. 
Im sorry to hear Mrs C lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman