DRN-3024610
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
refused to reinstate their private medical insurance policy after the policy was cancelled due 
to non-payment of premiums.
All references to Chaucer include its policy administrator.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out personal private medical insurance, which was underwritten by 
Chaucer, in 2018. The policy was sold to them by a broker, which Ill refer to as M. The 
policy was due to renew on 1 June 2020.
On 6 May 2020, Chaucer sent M a renewal quote for the following policy year. The price 
quoted was £3625.28. The renewal letter stated that if Mr and Mrs C paid their premium by 
debit or credit card, they would need to call Chaucer to provide their payment details. Mr and 
Mrs C say that due to M using an incorrect email address, they didnt receive the renewal 
paperwork.
Chaucer wrote directly to Mr and Mrs C on 4 June 2020. The letter set out the renewal date 
and price and again stated that Mr and Mrs C would need to call to provide it with their card 
details or pay by bank transfer. As Mr and Mrs C were concerned about an increase in their 
premium, they asked M to look into the reasons for the price rise.
M contacted Chaucer, which set out the reasons for the premium increase shortly afterwards 
and confirmed this verbally at the end of June 2020. As no premium payment was received, 
Chaucer wrote to Mr and Mrs C on 7 July 2020 to explain that if it hadnt received their 
payment by 22 July 2020, the policy would be cancelled. Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs C were 
abroad at this point and didnt receive the letter. They say they were trying to contact M at 
during this period but werent able to do so. The policy was cancelled on 24 July 2020. 
On 10 August 2020, M got in touch with Chaucer to ask it to reinstate Mr and Mrs Cs policy. 
However, Chaucer said that given the time between the renewal paperwork being issued 
and the cancellation of the policy, thered been plenty of time for the premium to be paid. So 
it refused to reinstate the policy on the same terms.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with Chaucers decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They felt Chaucer ought to have tried to contact them by email, or let M know that 
it planned to cancel the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Chaucer had acted unfairly. She was satisfied it had acted in line 
with the policy terms and that it had followed its usual processes in administering the policy. 
She felt the renewal paperwork had been issued in good time and that it clearly explained 
how card payments would need to be made. She didnt think Chaucer could be held 
responsible for M not having the correct email details for Mr and Mrs C. And she felt that 
both Mr and Mrs C and M were aware that the policy premium had been outstanding for 
around seven weeks before Chaucer cancelled the contract. So she didnt think Chaucer 
needed to reinstate the policy.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and Ive summarised Mr Cs detailed submissions. He felt that given 
the circumstances of Covid-19, the situation was exceptional and he queried why Chaucer 
hadnt contacted him by email, given it had those details. He referred to the fact that 
businesses had had to make changes to their operating models during the pandemic. 
Chaucer had been in dialogue with M, but itd failed to let M know that it intended to cancel 
the policy. The consequences of Chaucers refusal to reinstate the policy meant that Mr and 
Mrs C would now never be able to obtain critical medical cover they needed. Given they 
hadnt received the renewal documents from M and given the ongoing discussions between 
M and Chaucer, he didnt think it was reasonable to start the clock until July 2020. Itd been 
unfortunate that he and M had missed each other, but if M had had any inkling that the policy 
was about to be cancelled, it wouldve contacted Mr and Mrs C immediately. He accepted 
that the policy terms allowed Chaucer to cancel the policy  but he felt the critical question 
was whether it had acted fairly, reasonably and honourably.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, I dont think Chaucer has 
treated them unfairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs C that while Ive summarised both the detailed 
background to their complaint and their submissions, Ive carefully considered all theyve 
said and sent us. In making my decision though, I havent commented on each and every 
point theyve made and our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the key issues.
It's common ground that Mr and Mrs Cs policy renewed on 1 June 2020. This meant that 
their premium for the following year was due on this date. However, as Chaucer didnt 
receive any payment and despite it writing to Mr and Mrs C to let them know what would 
happen next, it cancelled the policy. So Ive turned to the policy terms to consider whether 
Chaucer acted in line with the terms of the contract.
Section 13 is titled Paying the Premium. Clause 13.1 states:
This policy is an annual contract, lasting for 12 months, for which a full annual premium
is due at the start of each period of insurance.
Clause 13.4 includes the following term: 
If premiums remain outstanding for more than 30 days after the due date, the policy 
will be cancelled from the date that the premium is paid up to and no further claims will be 
authorised or paid by us. (Bold is my emphasis).
Section 15 is titled Renewing the policy. This states:
At least 21 days before the end of the period of insurance, we will usually send thepolicyholder an invitation to renew the policy for a further 12 months. This will be sent
via the policyholders broker if one has been appointed.
Chaucer has sent us a copy of the email it sent to M on 6 May 2020, to which Mr and Mrs 
Cs renewal documents and its terms of business were attached. This is in line with the 
policy terms. This paperwork was sent to M over three weeks before the policy was due to 
renew and included the renewal price. It also explained that if Mr and Mrs C paid for their 
annual policy by debit or credit card, theyd need to contact Chaucer to provide card details. 
So Im satisfied Chaucer met its obligation to provide M (and therefore, Mr and Mrs C) with 
renewal information. And that it did so in good time to allow Mr and Mrs C to decide whether 
they wanted to proceed with renewing on the proposed terms. Its unfortunate that Mr and 
Mrs C didnt receive this information from M  but I cant fairly hold Chaucer responsible if M 
didnt use the correct email address. 
In any event, it seems that Mr and Mrs C did receive Chaucers letter of 4 June 2020. This 
stated that the policy was due to renew on 1 June 2020, what the premium was and it 
explained that due to current legislation, it didnt hold the details to take payment. It asked Mr 
and Mrs C to either call with their card details or gave its bank account details if Mr and Mrs 
C preferred to pay by bank transfer. Given that M emailed Chaucer on 9 June 2020 to query 
the price because Mr and Mrs C werent happy with it, Im satisfied both that they received 
this letter and were aware that the premiums remained outstanding.
As Ive set out above, the policy terms state that if Chaucer doesnt receive payment of 
premiums within 30 days of the due date, its entitled to cancel a policy. This means that 
strictly, Chaucer was entitled to cancel the policy on 30 June 2020. However, it didnt do so. 
In fact, it spoke to M on that date, explained again the reasons for the premium increase 
(following an email it sent to M on 10 June 2020 setting out the rationale) and also pointed 
out that the policy was already passed renewal. Im persuaded then that Chaucer took fair 
and reasonable steps to answer Mr and Mrs Cs concerns and that it did so promptly. Again, 
I cant reasonably hold it responsible if M didnt receive its email of 10 June 2020 or pass on 
that information. I can see that Chaucer seems to have emailed the correct email address.
Instead of cancelling the policy on 30 June 2020, Chaucer wrote to Mr C on 7 July 2020, 
explaining that if the premium wasnt paid by 22 July 2020, the policy would be cancelled. Its 
unfortunate that Mr C was out of the country at this point and that he wasnt successful in 
speaking to M to clarify Chaucers position on the premium. But Im satisfied that Chaucer 
wrote to the same address we hold for Mr C and that it took appropriate steps to let him 
know what the outcome would be if it didnt receive payment. I wouldnt have expected 
Chaucer to be aware that Mr and Mrs C were abroad at that point. And Chaucer has 
demonstrated that the steps it took were in line with its standard process in cases like these. 
So I dont think, on balance, that it treated Mr and Mrs C differently to any other policyholder 
in the same situation. 
In my view, I think the seven weeks Chaucer gave Mr and Mrs C to pay their outstanding 
premium was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C say 
that they didnt get the renewal quote from M and werent aware of the premium until after 
the policy had already renewed. But this was still broadly five weeks before the policy was 
cancelled. While Chaucer was aware Mr and Mrs C were in discussion with M about the 
price, its last communication relating to this was with M on 30 June 2020, when it told M 
thered be no movement on the price. So I think it wouldve been a fair assumption for 
Chaucer to conclude, three weeks later, that Mr and Mrs C had chosen not to renew their 
policy.
I understand Mr and Mrs C feel strongly that Chaucer ought to have emailed them or their 
broker to let both parties know about the planned cancellation. But as Ive set out, I think 
Chaucer gave both parties clear information about the renewal and that it did so in good time. And I cant fairly conclude that its responsible for the delays in Mr and Mrs C learning 
what the price was; the fact they were abroad or that Mr C and M werent able to discuss the 
matter while Mr C was abroad.
Overall then, I find that Chaucer acted in accordance with the policy terms. And I dont think 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Chaucer to reinstate the policy outside of the 
contract. So while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Cs position, because I appreciate the 
insurance was very important to them, Im not telling Chaucer to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman