DRN-2315861
The complaint
Mr L complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly agreed to settle a claim made by a third 
party driver.
What happened
Mr L had a car insurance policy with AXA. In May 2019 he was involved in an incident. He 
knocked the back of another vehicle with his car. At this time he didnt make a claim on his 
car insurance, as he said there was no damage to the other vehicle.
Later that year, AXA received notification of a claim made on the other drivers insurance. In 
December 2019 it settled the claim. However it didnt inform Mr L.
When Mr L renewed his policy, he found the premium had increased. He discovered this 
was due to a fault claim being registered against him. He made a complaint to AXA as he 
said it should have informed him at the time it settled the claim. Further he said there was no 
damage caused when the incident occurred, so he believed the claim was fraudulent and 
AXA shouldnt have settled it. 
AXA responded and upheld his complaint. It accepted it should have notified Mr L at the time 
it settled the claim and offered £150 compensation to make up for this. However it said it had 
settled the claim as it felt it would be likely to be successful if taken to court, so it said it 
wouldnt remove the fault claim from Claims and Underwriting Exchange database.
Mr L didnt think this was fair. He said he felt the other driver had claimed for damage that 
wasnt related to the incident. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that under the policy AXA is entitled to settle a claim as it sees fit and he was satisfied 
that the evidence it had provided showed this had been a fair decision. He thought the £150 
compensation offered was enough to make up for the fact AXA didnt notify Mr L of the claim 
at the time.
Mr L didnt agree as he maintained the claim was fraudulent. He asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L is complaining that AXA paid out for a claim that he felt was fraudulent. It isnt the role 
of this service to say whether the claim was or wasnt fraudulent. Or whose fault the incident 
was. Our role is to look at whether AXA has carried out a fair investigation and, based on the 
evidence, has come to a fair and reasonable decision about whether to settle the claim 
made by the other driver.
It states in the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy that AXA has the right to take over, 
defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. So this can mean AXA makes a decision that Mr L 
doesnt agree with, but it is entitled to do so under the policy.
In this case AXA received notification of a claim from the other drivers insurer in May 2019. 
However it failed to respond to the request at this time and didnt do so until solicitors got 
involved in December that year. At this stage it decided to settle the claim as it said it didnt 
think it would be able to defend the matter in court.
I have looked at the evidence from the other driver to decide if AXA came to a fair and 
reasonable decision. The other drivers insurer provided an invoice for the work done to 
repair the vehicle. From looking at the invoice I can see that the rear bumper was repaired. I 
can also see that the invoice is dated from May 2019 which is when the incident happened. 
Mr L has said that AXA acted unfairly because it didnt contact him at the time it settled the 
claim, in order to get his side of the story. I agree that this is poor service and I would have 
expected AXA to contact him in order to get a better understanding of what happened. 
However Mr L accepts that there was an incident in May 2019. And that this incident 
involved a small collision with the back of the other drivers car. So this is consistent with the 
evidence the other drivers insurer has provided to AXA. So if AXA had asked for Mr Ls 
account I dont think it would have changed AXAs decision on settling the claim.
Mr L says that at the time of the incident the other driver agreed there was no damage to 
their car. So he thinks the claim must be fraudulent. While I can appreciate why he feels this 
way, this isnt enough to persuade me that the claim is dishonest. Damage will often not be 
apparent at the time of the collision. Especially as the drivers are both coming to terms with 
the fact there has been a collision at this time. So I think its reasonable that while damage 
may not have been identified at the time of the incident, it became apparent later. 
Further, the invoice provided is consistent with the date of the incident and the part of the car 
that Mr L collided with. And the costs arent excessive. So I think it is more likely that the 
repairs that have been claimed for by the other driver are in relation to the incident with Mr L.
So although I agree AXA should have contacted Mr L about the claim, I dont think this would 
have changed the outcome of its decision. And from looking at the evidence provided, I am 
satisfied that AXAs decision to settle the claim with the other drivers insurer is fair and 
reasonable. It therefore follows that I wont ask it to do anything differently including 
amending Mr Ls record on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database.
However I do agree AXA provided poor service by not notifying Mr L about the claim that 
had been made. I appreciate it would have been distressing for Mr L to find out only when he 
went to renew his policy. AXA has offered him £150 compensation to make up for this 
distress and I am satisfied that this is fair in the circumstances and in line with what I would 
have recommended.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Sophie GoodyearOmbudsman