DRN-2868752
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as C have complained that QBE UK Limited didnt make it clear how - 
or by how much - the premium for their commercial insurance policy would be adjusted, 
meaning that they owed a lot more than expected at the end of the period of cover.
C are represented in their complaint by a solicitor. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions
and comments of the solicitor as being those of C
What happened
C consider themselves a small, family run business. They held employers liability and public
and products liability policies with QBE between 2011 and 2018 which they bought through a 
broker. C said that at the renewal in 2017 theyd declared their estimated wage and turnover 
figures based on the previous year, as advised by their broker. This resulted in a premium of 
£3,392.77.
During the period of insurance from 2017  2018, C won a large contract which meant both
their wages and turnover were much higher than expected. At the end of the period of
cover, QBE said Cs premium was £23,930.04. It said the policy had been taken out on the
basis that it could be adjusted at the end of the policy depending on Cs wages and turnover
and that the adjustable nature of the policy was clear in the documents provided at the initial
sale and at each renewal.
C didnt think it was fair that they were charged such an increased amount and complained
to QBE. They didnt think the adjustment terms had been brought to their attention when
buying the policy. They also thought the adjustment term was onerous and unfair because
only QBE could benefit from it, given that C wouldnt receive a refund of premium if their
wages and turnover were lower than theyd declared. C said theyd been able to secure a
new policy at a much cheaper price and had been told by their new insurer that the
percentage charged by an insurer should reduce if the wages and turnover increases, rather
than applying a flat rate.
QBE said all communication about the sale and renewal had been through Cs broker, who
were Cs agent and not QBEs. However, they thought the terms of the policy were clear and
that it was fair to rely on them. QBE said C would possibly have been entitled to a refund if
their wages and turnover were lower, subject to a minimum premium. It noted that the term
C had referenced to demonstrate that it wouldnt have received any refund had only been
partially quoted and, when considered in full, it referred to the situation where a policy is
cancelled. However, QBE offered to reduce the premium by 25% if they renewed their
policy. C declined this offer and took out cover elsewhere.
As they remained unhappy with QBEs response C brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought
QBEs policy made it clear that the premium could be adjusted for an increase in wages and
turnover. He said that QBE had charged C the same as it would have done if they had
known and declared what their wage costs and turnover would be for the year accurately at
the renewal in 2017. He also thought that QBE had shown that it may provide a refund if Cs
wages and turnover had been lower, so he didnt think the term was unfair or onerous.
C didnt agree with our investigators view. They felt the view hadnt taken account of the
basis of contract law and that, as it wasnt clear exactly how the increased premium would
be calculated, QBE wasnt entitled to apply any additional premium.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 May 2021 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C have made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all but will instead
focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I have set out what I
believe are the central questions for me to consider below.
C have also raised a number of complaint points about their broker. However, as the broker
isnt an agent of QBE, I dont hold QBE responsible for the brokers actions. If C remain
unhappy with the actions of their broker they would need to raise that as a separate
complaint to their broker.
Is the policy clear that the premium might be adjusted?
Under General Conditions Cs policy states:
Premium Adjustment Clause
The premiums for Sections A B D and E of this policy are calculated by a
rate on estimated wages and/or turnover and an accurate record containing
all relevant particulars must be kept by you.
You shall at all times allow us to inspect such records and shall supply such
particulars and information as we may require within one month from the expiry of
each period of insurance to enable us to adjust the premium. Such adjustment
will be subject to:
16.1 any Section minimum premium chargeable for the risk being retained by us;
and
16.2 a maximum return premium of twenty five (25) per cent of the adjustable
portion of the premium for each Section.
provided that there shall be no refund of premium on adjustment following
cancellation of this insurance under the terms of General Condition 7.
Employers liability is Section A and public and products liability is Section B. So, Im
satisfied that the policy sets out that there is a premium adjustments clause. I also think the
policy sets out that the premiums are based on estimated wages and/or turnover and that
any changes to these could result in an adjustment to the premium.
The Declaration C signed in 2011 when buying the policy says:
I/We further agree to provide such declarations of actual wages and turnover at
the end of the period of insurance as may be required, and to pay any additional
premium due.
The renewal quotation says in large, bold type:
Total Premium Including IPT @ 12% Adjustable at expiry on declaredfigures Subject to minimum premiums.
The renewal quotation also has the heading Premium Basis. Under this it says that QBE is
inviting renewal based on your clients existing sums insured and updated estimates as
follows. The estimated wages and turnover are set out underneath in a table.
Taking these documents into account, I think QBE made it clear that the premium could be
subject to an adjustment which would be calculated on Cs wages and/or turnover declared
at the end of the period cover.
Does the percentage rate applied to the wages and/or turnover to calculate the adjustment
need to be set out in the policy document?
C believe that because QBE didnt set out the exact rates that would be used to calculate the
adjusted premium, there is a fundamental uncertainty to the contract which makes it
meaningless. They have referred to case law to support their position.
I accept that the specific rate wasnt set out in the policy. I also think it would have been
helpful for QBE to have let C know that the premium would increase at a flat rate, i.e. in line
with increases in wages and/or turnover. However, in the absence of any information in the
policy saying differently, I think an ordinary reading of the policy wording that says
calculated by a rate on estimated wages and/or turnover (my underlining for 
emphasis) indicates that this is a flat rate.
In any event, while I do have to take account of the law, Im required to make my decision
based on what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. I dont
think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome, in this particular case, for me to
require QBE to refund the additional premium. This is because, in addition to the point
above, I dont think C provided correct information to QBE when renewing their policy.
In their complaint to us, C say their turnover had increased to £1.39 million in 2016-17 and
then to £1.85 million for 2017-2018.
QBE sent declaration and estimate forms to be completed by C each year. For the period
ending July 2017, C declared that their wages were £80,000 and turnover was £220,000.
This seems to be at odds with their actual turnover, which they told us increased to £1.39
million in 2016-17.
In their estimate form for the period to July 2018, used to calculate the initial premium, C
estimated their wages would be £80,000 and their turnover would be £220,000. C told us
they based their estimations on the previous years figures on the advice of their broker.
While this would seem a reasonable way of producing an estimate, C have told us that the
actual figures were much higher.
QBE said Cs declaration form for the period to July 2018 gave the same figures, indicating
that no adjustment was needed to the premium. However, Cs estimate form for the year
ahead (i.e. the period to July 2019) gave a much higher estimate. When QBE queried this, C
said theyd secured a large contract in the previous year  therefore, they also needed
to amend their declaration for the period to July 2018. This is what led to the additional
premium being charged.
Ive seen an email from C, in July 2018, where they explain that a large contract had only
just been finalised, the payment for which didnt initially show up in the end of year figures.
They also said that the employee responsible for the previous years estimate and
declaration had recently been sacked.Whatever the reasons for the wrong declarations and estimates being provided, I dont think
its QBEs fault. I realise the difficulty of anticipating large one-off contracts, and the
challenges of year-end accounting, but if C had provided accurate declarations and
estimates sooner, the increase in the cost of the policy wouldnt have been as
marked. I dont think I could fairly require QBE to give a refund in premium when C didnt
provide accurate information about the risk being covered.
Is the amount charged by QBE unfair?
I understand that C believe that the amount charged following the adjustment is extortionate,
given that they have been able to source a much cheaper policy with a different insurer.
They have also spoken to their new insurer who has advised them that the rate applied
should decrease as the costs of the wages and turnover increase.
Its for QBE to set the premium of the policy and, even if other insurers do reduce the
percentage applied as the risk increases, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for QBE to
apply the rate in the way it chooses, as long as its treating C in the same way it would any
other policyholder with exactly the same circumstances.
QBE have provided an email from a senior underwriter to explain how the premium was
rated. Im unable to share this information as its commercially sensitive, but Im satisfied
QBE have shown theyve done this fairly.
Although QBE offered to reduce the adjusted premium by 25%, this was in an effort to retain
Cs custom for another year, rather than because the premium was flexible. As C declined
QBEs offer to renew, I dont think QBE had to continue to offer that discount.
Is the adjustment clause onerous or unfair?
Adjustment clauses arent unusual in this type of policy and theyre not inherently unfair  its
reasonable for the premium to increase if the risk it covers grows beyond the amount
estimated. Im satisfied that C would have received the benefit of the policy for the increased
wage costs and turnover. So, I havent seen anything to persuade me that the term is
onerous or unfair.
C have referred to the clause being unfair because they think it would only benefit QBE.
However, the premium adjustment clause shows that there could be a reduction in premium
if the wages and/or turnover reduced. So, Im not persuaded that its unfairly one-sided.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to C, but I dont intend to uphold
their complaint.
QBE accepted my provisional decision and added no further comments. However, C didnt 
agree. They provided a detailed response which in summary said:
The policy should be declared void due to the percentage uplift not being set out at 
the beginning. It should be clear to policyholders what they might be required to pay 
and without doing so the policy isnt transparent. 
Theres no way of C knowing if the amount charged by QBE is fair and they would 
like me to specifically identify how the premium has been calculated based on the 
policy documents  which C dont believe is possible.
A third-party looking at the policy wouldnt know that a flat rate was to be applied or 
what that flat rate was and that this isnt clear from reading the policy.My rationale would mean that C would be required to pay whatever rate QBE applied 
and that would clearly be nonsense.
The cost of the policy is excessive, given what C are paying for their current policy.
Cs turnover didnt increase until 2016 when they won a large contract. This was 
surprising and therefore the incorrect estimate wasnt an error, it was a consequence 
of unknown factors. 
The offer of a 25% reduction wasnt financially attractive given that the policy wasnt 
appropriate.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most of the points C have made in response to my provisional decision are similar to those 
that they made in their previous submissions. They havent persuaded me to change my 
mind and I dont intend to repeat the findings already set out in my provisional decision 
above. 
I remain satisfied that in the absence of wording to suggest otherwise the policy indicates 
that the premium would increase at a flat rate. C said my rationale would mean that C would 
be required to pay whatever rate QBE decided to apply. However, in this decision Ive 
considered the flat rate QBE did apply and not what it hypothetically might have applied. 
C also said that their turnover didnt increase until 2016-17 which meant that their estimate 
for the following year wasnt an error. However, while the estimate for the period to July 2017 
might not have been an error, I havent seen anything to indicate C either declared this 
increase in their declaration form at the end of the period to 2017 or that they included it in 
their estimate for the period to July 2018. As such, I dont think it would produce a fair and 
reasonable outcome for me to require QBE to refund Cs premium when they didnt 
accurately declare the risk being covered.
I appreciate this isnt the answer C were hoping for, but for the reasons set out above and in 
my provisional decision, I dont think I can fairly require QBE to void the policy or reduce the 
amount C are required to pay for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman