DRN-4221011
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as O, is unhappy with the actions of Santander UK Plc 
surrounding a payment it instructed which is now understood to have been a scam.
What happened
On 13 April 2022, O called Santander to make a payment to a company (the Company) 
with which O had an ongoing business relationship and to which O had made several 
payments previously. 
O had received an invoice from the Company which explained that the Companys bank 
account details had changed such that this and future payments should be made by O to the 
new payment account. Its now understood that this invoice had been intercepted by the 
scammer, who had changed the payment account details on the invoice to their own bank 
account details and so deceived O into instructing a legitimate invoice payment to an 
incorrect payment account.
Santander discussed the payment with O and later processed it as instructed. O discovered 
and reported the scam to Santander the next day, when the Company confirmed that no 
payment had been received by them and that their payment account details hadnt changed. 
O werent happy that Santander had processed the payment to the scammers or that 
Santander werent able to recover the money that O had lost. So, they raised a complaint.
Santander responded to O and explained that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly or 
improperly in how theyd processed Os instructed payment. However, they did acknowledge 
that they hadnt attempted to recover the money as quickly as they could have. And while 
Santander didnt feel that Os money would have been recoverable had they acted when 
they should have, they did apologise to O for the delay and pay £100 compensation to O for 
the trouble and inconvenience O may have incurred as a result. O werent satisfied with 
Santanders response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Santander have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
It's clear that O were the victims of an invoice interception scam here. So, Ive considered 
whether Santander should reasonably have acted differently to how they did, and if so, 
whether this would most likely have resulted in a different outcome to what happened. 
Theres some disagreement between O and Santander as to what was or wasnt said during 
the telephone calls between them that took place on 13 April 2022. Unfortunately, recordings 
of these telephone calls arent available. This means that Ive had to consider what I feel was 
most likely to have happened, on balance, and in consideration of the information and 
evidence I do have available to me.
O are unhappy that Santander processed the payment to the GBP account given by the 
scammer from Os USD account. This meant that, because the payment wasnt between two 
GBP accounts, that Confirmation of Payee (CoP) wasnt available. And O maintain that 
they instructed Santander to transfer the relevant funds from Os USD account to Os GBP 
account before then making the payment from Os GBP account  which would have allowed 
CoP to be performed and which O maintain would have highlighted that the recipient 
scammer account wasnt in the name of the Company as O believed.
In their response to the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, O have said 
that whenever O have had to make payments to GBP accounts that they have always asked 
for the money to be transferred from Os USD account to Os GBP account, so that the 
payment can be made from Os GBP account.
However, Os position here doesnt appear to be supported by the movements from Os 
accounts. And its notable that O made prior payments to the Company directly from Os 
USD account on 20 December 2021 and 11 February 2022.
Additionally, Santander have detailed notes of the calls that took place on 13 April 2023, and 
these include that while O did initially ask Santander to transfer the money to Os GBP 
account before making the payment, Santanders advisor explained that previous payments 
to the Company had been made from the USD account directly and that O then confirmed 
that payment directly from the USD account would be acceptable. And Os agreement and 
understanding that the payment would be made directly from the USD account is also 
confirmed in a note of another call that happened later that day.
In consideration of all these points, I dont feel that Santander did act unfairly by processing 
the payment directly from the USD account as they did. This is because O had made prior 
payments to the Company directly from the USD account and because I feel that its more 
likely than not that Santanders notes  which confirm that O accepted that payment would 
be made directly from the USD account  are accurate. 
Santanders notes also record that, when they were told by O that the Companys payment 
account details had changed, Santander told O that they werent able to verify the validity of 
the new account details and so asked O to contact the Company and confirm with them that 
the payment account details had legitimately changed. And O have confirmed that they did 
then contact the Company to confirm whether the payment account details had changed but 
that the Company employee they needed to speak with wasnt available at that time. 
Santander also have note of a later call, when O told Santander that it had been confirmed 
to O by the Company that the payment account details had changed and that Santander 
should therefore process the payment to the new account details as instructed. And it was 
only after receiving this confirmation from O that Santander proceeded to process the 
payment as instructed. And, having received such confirmation from O that it was okay to 
process the payment, I dont feel that Santander acted unfairly by doing so.I feel that by asking O to confirm with the Company that the payment account details had 
changed, that Santander were effectively asking O to complete a check which I consider was 
broadly equivalent to CoP  which it appears that O may not have accurately done. And I 
say this because again I feel its more likely than not that Santanders notes regarding these 
calls  including that O confirmed that the payment account for the Company had changed  
are accurate.
O may point out that Santanders terms and conditions confirm that CoP should be carried 
out by Santander and O may question why it was asked to complete an equivalent check 
rather than Santander completing such a check. But as explained, as it presently stands 
CoP is available on transfers between UK based GBP accounts, and Santander doesnt 
have the facility to conduct CoP on transfers between accounts of differing currency types. 
As such, I feel that Santanders terms refer to instances where CoP can reasonably be 
undertaken by them, and not to cases  such as this one  where CoP isnt possible. 
And so, in the absence of Santander being able to conduct CoP themselves, I dont feel it 
was unreasonable for Santander to ask O to confirm with the Company directly, before the 
transfer was processed, that the Companys payment account details had in fact changed.  
O have also said that theyre unhappy that O processed the payment from the USD account 
without explaining the disadvantages of doing so. As discussed, the primary disadvantage of 
processing the payment from the USD account would be that CoP couldnt be confirmed. 
But, given that Santander received confirmation from O that it had undertaken a check which 
I consider to be broadly equivalent to CoP by confirming with the Company directly that the 
payment account details had changed, I dont feel that there was any tangible disadvantage 
to making the payment from the USD account as O suggest. 
Ive also considered whether there was anything in the nature of the payment itself which 
should have given Santander any cause to suspect that something untoward might be taking 
place. This could be, for instance, if the payment was unusually large or was being made to 
a new payee. But, as explained above, O had made several recent similar payments to the 
Company, and I dont feel the payment in question was unusual in comparison to those other 
payments  other than in regard to being made to new payment account details, which also 
as explained, I dont feel that Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in response to.
Finally, being satisfied that it wasnt unfair for Santander to have processed the payment as 
they did, Ive considered how Santander acted when they were made aware of the scam, 
including whether they acted to try to recover Os money in a timely manner.
Santander have acknowledged they didnt attempt to recover the money from the scammers 
account as quickly as they should have done, and theyve apologised to O for this and paid 
£100 compensation to O for any trouble and inconvenience O experienced as a result.
It's been suggested by O that had Santander acted more quickly, that their money could 
have been recovered. But unfortunately, I feel that this was unlikely. I say this because its 
usually the case that scammers withdraw money from recipient accounts very quickly, and O 
only realised and reported the scam the day after it took place. Also, the recipient account to 
which O was scammed into sending the money is based in an overseas territory, within 
which recovery of funds is only possible if the account holder  in this case the scammer  
consents to that recovery. And I feel this would have been unlikely for obvious reasons. 
As such, I feel that even had Santander acted to try to recover Os money when they were 
first informed of the scam, that recovery of Os money would most likely not have been 
possible. This means that I dont feel that Santanders actions did directly lead to Os money not being recoverable. And consequently, I dont feel that Santander should fairly be 
instructed to reimburse the money to O as O would like.
Finally, I feel that the £100 compensation already paid by Santander to O for not attempted 
to recover the money as quickly as it should have done is a fair amount here. This is in 
acknowledgement that the £100 is compensation for the inconvenience O experienced by 
having to chase this matter with Santander and isnt regarding Os money not being 
recovered  which as explained, I dont feel was likely in any scenario here. 
All of which means that, while I sympathise with O regarding what happened, I dont feel that 
Santander should fairly or reasonably be asked to reimburse any of the money the O lost 
because of the scam to O. This is because I dont feel that Santander acted unfairly by 
processing the payment as they did, and because I dont feel that recover of Os money 
would most likely have been possible had Santander acted more quickly than they did.
I realise this wont be the outcome O was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action here. I hope that O will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman