DRN-2062050
The complaint
Mr N says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) hasnt acted as it 
said it would after it partially upheld a complaint he had made. This has caused him 
significant upset as it has had an impact on his credit score.
What happened
Mr N complained to Lending Stream about ten loans it had provided him with. In its response 
in March 2020 Lending Stream said it didnt think the first six loans should be upheld but did 
offer to uphold loans seven to ten.
Mr N had an outstanding balance with Lending Stream so Lending Stream would offset the 
redress for loans seven to ten against that balance. This would leave Mr N with an 
outstanding balance of £819.18. Mr N agreed to a repayment plan for this outstanding 
balance. He was to pay five monthly instalments of £163.83, the first payment date being 
due on 15 March 2020.
However, lending Stream didnt carry out any of the actions it said it would. It didnt amend 
Mr Ns outstanding balance to reflect the new amount still outstanding. Nor did it set up the 
payment plan, so Mr N wasnt able to make any of the repayments he intended to.
This resulted in negative markers being added to Mr Ns credit file. And Lending Stream still 
continued to contact Mr N on a very regular basis about the original outstanding balance it 
was saying was still due. Mr N contacted Lending Stream many times to resolve the matter. 
Lending Stream told Mr N all of the above was an error and it would treat the matter as a 
priority in order to put the matter right.
Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She asked Lending 
Stream to put the matter right by arranging for the outstanding balance to be corrected, a 
new payment plan to be set up, removal of any adverse credit markers that had been added 
to Mr Ns file since March 2020 and that Mr N should be paid £150 for the poor service he 
had received.
We didnt hear from Lending Stream.
In July Lending Stream then wrote to Mr N advising him the original outstanding balance on 
the three loans, totalling £1,552.02 would be passed to a debt collections agency. Our 
adjudicator contacted Lending Stream and respectfully asked it not to do this, but it 
happened in any event. 
We still havent received a response from Lending Stream. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clearly Lending Stream did not do what was agreed on 3 March 2020 in response to Mr Ns 
complaint. That was to reduce the outstanding balance further to reflect the redress amount 
being offered for loans seven to ten and to set up a repayment plan due to start on 15 March 
2020.
Its also clear from the copies of correspondence that Lending Stream continued to contact 
Mr N and referring to the original amount that was outstanding and that it needed to be 
repaid. And ultimately it referred the original debt amount to a debt collections agency.
Mr N has told us he contacted Lending Stream numerous times, but nothing was done 
despite him being reassured the issue was being treated as a priority. Mr N has also told us 
he needs the adverse credit markers removed from his credit file as he was looking to buy a 
house and clearly those markers would have a significant impact on his ability to get a 
mortgage. 
We havent received any response from Lending Stream which is extremely disappointing, 
even bearing in mind the current COVID situation which may have caused some 
understandable delays. 
So, Im upholding the complaint and Lending Stream should put things right.
Putting things right
Mr N has recently told us the three outstanding loans have been brought back from 
the debt collection agency, but if this hasnt been done, Lending Stream should do 
so;
Correct the outstanding balance on Mr Ns account from £1,552.02 to £819.18 as 
previously agreed;
Set up a repayment plan so the outstanding balance can be repaid, again on the 
terms previously agreed;
Remove any negative information about the outstanding balance that has been 
added to his credit file since Mr N accepted Lending Streams original offer to offset 
the redress due on loans seven to ten on 3 March 2020. 
And Mr N has undoubtedly suffered trouble and upset during the six months since 
March 2020. As a reflection of this, Lending Stream should pay him £200, an 
increase from that recommended by the adjudicator. It should not be used to offset 
against the outstanding balance. 
Bearing in mind Mr Ns current circumstances I would ask that Lending Stream puts the 
matter right as soon as possible. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint. Gain Credit LLC should put 
things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman