DRN-3406173
The complaint
Mr C complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s handling of a 
subsidence claim made through a property owners buildings insurance policy.
All references to RSA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In early 2019, the policyholder  a property management company  made a claim for 
subsidence to a block of flats where Mr C lives. Mr C is dealing with the claim on behalf of 
the property management company and is a beneficiary of the insurance policy.
Mr C says theres been delays in RSAs handling of the claim, and it hasnt been progressed 
in a reasonable and timely manner. 
Mr C is also unhappy as he raised a complaint with RSA around September 2019 which 
wasnt acknowledged. He said RSAs eventual response didnt adequately explain or deal 
with the reasons for the delays.
Mr C says because of the delays, hes been unable to sell his property when the market was 
more favourable. And hes suffered further disruption by having two sets of remedial works 
carried out in his property.
In response to Mr Cs complaint, RSA acknowledged there were delays, because it hadnt 
received the loss adjusters initial report due to a system issue. 
RSA said the resultant delays in beginning the level monitoring were because the 
contractors couldnt gain access to one of the flats.
RSA apologised for not acknowledging Mr Cs complaint in September 2019 and offered 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr C didnt agree with RSAs response, so he referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded RSAs offer of compensation was reasonable in the circumstances. And they 
didnt think RSA was responsible for any additional avoidable delays than had already been 
acknowledged. 
Our investigator found RSAs approach to the remedial works reasonable based on the 
results of the monitoring and site investigations. And they didnt think the delay in the claim 
unduly impacted Mr Cs plans to sell the property, because it was more likely than not the 
claim wouldnt have been resolved by that stage in any event.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators findings. He said he felt the investigator had 
overlooked some of the key parts of his complaint and evidence.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
For the purposes of my decision, Im satisfied that I only have jurisdiction to consider the 
impact of RSAs claim handling on Mr C as a beneficiary of the policy. I cannot consider any 
impact relating to Mr Cs capacity as a representative of the management company, as that 
falls outside of the Financial Conduct Authoritys definition of an eligible complainant. 
Having considered everything, Ive decided to not uphold the complaint for these reasons:
I acknowledge Mr C feels that RSAs explanation for the avoidable four-month delay 
isnt reasonable. But having looked at everything, Im satisfied RSA fairly 
acknowledged the mistake. The delay isnt in dispute, and RSA accepts it shouldve 
chased the matter with the appointed loss adjuster by phone. I havent seen anything 
which requires further consideration here. 
To be able to uphold Mr Cs complaint, Id need to be persuaded that RSA was 
predominantly responsible for causing further avoidable delays, once it had identified 
the error in not received the loss adjuster initial report.
Mr Cs says there was a further delay in setting up the monitoring, which wasnt the 
responsibility of the residents or management company. Both partys recollection of 
this part of the claim differ. But whats not in dispute is that there was some 
discussion between the loss adjuster and the managing agent around the scale and 
scope of monitoring  evidenced by the emails Ive seen.
Even if I were to accept there was a delay in RSA taking monitoring readings, its not 
been shown this confusion caused further delays in progressing the claim for Mr Cs 
property. Instead, the evidence shows the loss adjuster offered repairs to Mr Cs flat 
in lieu of conducting further investigations. RSA said the repairs would act as a form 
of monitoring as any further damage would be apparent. Given the initial delays and 
dialogue between the parties about the need to progress the claim, I think this was a 
fair approach in the circumstances.
Whilst RSA didnt acknowledge Mr Cs initial complaint in 2019, the evidence shows 
he was in communication with the loss adjuster and it continued to monitor, report, 
and progress the claim. Therefore, I find any compensation linked to this error is for 
the inconvenience caused to Mr C by RSAs lack of response, rather than for any 
impact to the claim progression.Ive considered Mr Cs point about the initial remedial works being completed sooner, 
and at a more favourable time for him. But the evidence suggests that even if the 
works were done sooner, the internal repairs wouldnt have been effective and 
lasting. And since the claims progressed, its clear further site investigations were 
needed to support the possible repair solutions presented by the loss adjuster for the 
whole block of flats. These investigations take time, and an insurer is entitled to 
investigate the cause of damage to determine the most appropriate, effective, and 
lasting repair for all the insured beneficiaries. So, Im not persuaded the claim 
couldve been concluded sooner.
Having considered everything, I find RSAs offer of £250 compensation fairly reflects 
the initial delay in receiving and acting on the loss adjusters report, and the upset 
caused by not acknowledging Mr Cs initial complaint in 2019.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman