DRN-1477846
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold with a store card. 
Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is because 
Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI complaints like 
this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing else has 
changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mrs F says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents available 
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party has been able to 
provide any documentation as these events happened over 20 years ago. And whilst I dont 
doubt that Mrs Fs testimony represents her honest and best recollections of the events, I 
have noted that her testimony has evolved over the course of the complaint, Mrs F has 
provided varying accounts of her savings at that time, but considering the time that has 
passed since the sale that is also not at all surprising. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened given 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs F has said, including that she recalls taking out the PPI 
but recalls being told she had to take the PPI to get the credit. Mrs F recalls this happening 
during a visit to a store. AXA has records which suggest the card was taken out in 1996 
whilst the PPI was sold over the telephone in 1999. I have no reason to doubt the accuracy 
of the records submitted by AXA. So it seems that Mrs F had the credit for three years 
before she took out the PPI. In any event, Ive not seen anything that clearly shows AXA 
didnt make Mrs F aware the PPI was optional. So, whilst acknowledging that things could 
have happened just as Mrs F said, considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So having 
considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that AXA 
wouldve made Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it, even 
though she may not remember that now, many years later. AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
The information AXA gave Mrs F about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time it seems that she 
was eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected 
by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mrs F would have benefited from the cover. I say this because Mrs F told 
us that she had sick pay that would not have lasted beyond six months if she was off work 
through ill health. And whilst Mrs F told us she had some other means she could rely on in 
that event, she hasnt been able to provide any evidence to clarify the size of the savings. 
 The cover would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event that Mrs F had long term ill 
health, or if she lost her job. So I think the PPI could have been useful for her.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs F off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman