DRN-3980621
The complaint
Mr E complains that Chetwood Financial Limited, trading as Wave, incorrectly closed his 
credit card account.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr E raised a dispute about a payment on his Wave credit card account. He 
says he was asked to send some supporting documents by email, which he did. Some 
weeks went by and following further conversations with Wave, Mr E says he realised it had 
lost the information he had sent in.
Mr E raised his concerns about this with Wave and explained that he thought it had put him 
at risk under General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). He says he told Wave that if it 
didnt take his concerns about the lost documents seriously, it would leave him with no 
alternative but to close his account. Mr E says Wave took this as an instruction and closed 
his account instead of investigating his concerns about the documents. 
Mr E complained about Waves actions and asked it to re-open his account. He also pointed 
out that he was made aware through subsequent conversations with Waves advisers that 
email channels were not a secure form of communication. So, Mr E thought Wave shouldnt 
have closed his account following a request through an email. Mr E also said he would stop 
making payments towards the outstanding balance on the account because Wave had 
closed the account unlawfully.
Wave looked into matters and, in summary, said it searched its systems but couldnt locate 
the information Mr E said he sent in about his dispute. In relation to the account closure, 
Wave said it received an instruction from Mr E to close his account. And, Wave said this 
instruction came through a secure method of contact. It said it had told Mr E that once an 
account had been closed, it couldnt be re-opened. Wave also told Mr E that any missed 
payments might impact his credit file.
Mr E remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He also pointed out that 
Wave said it would arrange for an adviser to call him, which never happened. One of our 
investigators reviewed matters and, in summary, didnt think Wave had acted unfairly by 
closing the account. However, he noted that following this there were some discussions 
between Waves advisers and Mr E. Our investigator thought that Mr E was provided with 
some contradictory information about what forms of contact were considered to be secure, 
which meant Mr E spent a lot of time corresponding about the matter. So, he thought Wave 
should recognise the distress this wouldve caused by paying Mr E £100 compensation.
Mr E responded to our investigators view and reiterated he didnt want his account to be 
closed. Wave responded and whilst it recognised there were lots of messages sent between 
Mr E and its advisers, it didnt agree that misleading information was given. So, it asked for 
an ombudsman to review matters.
I issued a provisional decision where I said, in summary, and amongst other points, that I 
was persuaded Mr E was clear about wanting to close his account, and I was persuaded the 
request had come through a secure communication channel. So, on balance, I didnt think 
Wave had acted unfairly by acting on this request. In relation to the subsequent 
conversations held between Waves advisers and Mr E, I wasnt persuaded that Mr E was 
given misleading information, and I thought that Mr E had been given clear information 
regarding the difference between secure and unsecure communication channels. So, I didnt 
think Wave needed to pay compensation in the circumstances.
Wave responded and said it agreed with the provisional decision and had no further 
evidence or points to provide. Mr E also responded to the provisional decision, but disagreed 
with it. In summary, and amongst other points, he said he thought the investigation showed 
bias and that this service acted in the interest of companies and not consumers. He also 
pointed out that he thought evidence had been manipulated by Wave and said that the 
evidence was the same as when the first investigation was carried out, so he thought 
something had been altered or manipulated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. I've 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments that Mr E raised in response to the provisional decision. And, 
although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made to date.
I appreciate Mr E would have been disappointed to learn that I reached a different outcome 
to our investigator. In his response to the provisional decision, he suggested the outcome 
changed following conversations with Wave and that evidence had been altered along the 
way. Here, the evidence around this particular point in question  the point our investigator 
thought warranted compensation  is the same evidence that was reviewed by our 
investigator. And, whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr E, my interpretation of 
this evidence differed from what our investigator thought. Given this change in outcome, I 
issued a provisional decision which allowed both parties to provide any further evidence or 
arguments in relation to the new findings. 
I acknowledge Mr E thinks there has been bias shown in my investigation, and he thinks this 
service acts in the favour of firms and not consumers. I want to assure Mr E that this service 
acts impartially, and not on the side of any party involved. And, my role as an ombudsman is 
to independently review the available evidence and come to what I consider to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome, without bias to either party. I want to assure Mr E that this is what I 
have done in the circumstances of his complaint. 
Mr E has raised concerns that Wave lost information he says he sent by email. In response, 
Wave asked Mr E to send it a copy of the information he says he sent, and a screenshot of 
the email showing both the recipient and sending email address. As I understand it, Mr E 
didnt send in any information following Waves request, and explained that he was unable to 
find the original email.
Despite this, Wave continued to investigate the matter and completed a full search of its 
mailbox. It provided evidence of this search and the results in its submissions to this service. 
And, on balance, given that Mr E couldnt provide any further detail or information regarding 
the email, Im persuaded that there wasnt much else Wave could do to try and locate the 
email in the circumstances. So, I think Wave investigated Mr Es concerns appropriately here. If Mr E still has concerns about whether Wave has broken any relevant data rules and 
regulations, he can contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Turning next to the account closure, in his submissions to this service, Mr E said he emailed 
Wave to say that if it didnt take his concerns about the documents seriously, he would have 
no option but to close his account. Mr E says Wave took this as an instruction which it acted 
upon, instead of investigating his complaint. Mr E has also said Wave shouldnt have closed 
his account because his request came through email, which is an unsecure correspondence 
channel.
Wave told this service that when a customer logs into their online banking application (app) 
and makes contact through the app using email or live chat, the communication method is 
secure and starts a thread of secure emails between the parties. On the other hand, if a 
customer contacts it through its website and not the app, the communication channel is 
deemed to be unsecure. I find Waves explanation here plausible, and not unusual in the 
circumstances. 
Whilst there was some correspondence on unsecured email channels regarding the account 
closure, Wave has provided evidence which persuades me that a request for the account 
closure also came through on a secure email channel.
Having looked at this chain of correspondence, Mr E expressed concerns about the 
documents he says he provided, and explained he was considering closing his account as a 
result. An adviser responded outlining that they were unable to find the email Mr E was 
referring to. Mr E then said the following:
Please therefore close my account. 
I will continue to make payments going with the plan but as you lost the email I was advised 
to send to you Im not happy that your [sic] handling my personal details. 
Wave apologised for the issues Mr E raised and confirmed it would close his account. It also 
explained that once an account was closed, it couldnt be re-opened. Mr E responded by 
reiterating that he intended to continue to make payments as he was currently, and that the 
reason behind his decision was because he was concerned about how his data was being 
handled. 
Having carefully reviewed this, I think Mr E was clear about wanting to close his account with 
Wave. The terms of Mr Es account state that a customer can end the agreement at any time 
by giving notice in writing, together with payment of the outstanding balance. So, Im not 
persuaded that Wave acted unreasonably by acting on the information it received in the 
email. 
Some weeks later, Mr E contacted Wave to ask why his card had been declined when he 
tried to use it. Wave told Mr E this was following his previous request to close his account. 
Ive considered that Wave told Mr E that his account balance would need to be £0 before the 
account would register as closed, in line with the account terms. And at the point it received 
a request to close the account, Mr E still had an outstanding balance. 
Wave has told this service that it was able to start the closure process at the point it received 
the request, but the account couldnt be fully closed, and registered as such with the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) due to the outstanding balance. Instead, by starting the account 
closure process, Mr E would be unable to use his card to prevent any further spending.I do think Wave could have explained that whilst the account wouldnt register as fully closed 
until the balance was recorded as £0, the account usage would be restricted during this 
period. However, overall, Im not persuaded that Mr E was treated unfairly here given that 
his request was for the account to be closed. And, Wave had initiated the closure process by 
registering his request and restricting further spending on the card. Ive also considered that 
following receipt of the closure request, Wave asked Mr E to destroy his card and update his 
payment method on subscriptions he might have set up. So, on balance, I think it was 
sufficiently clear that the account closure process had started, in line with the request that 
had been received. 
Our investigator thought the conversation that followed some weeks later between Waves 
advisers and Mr E caused unnecessary confusion. As I understand it, Mr E thinks an adviser 
he spoke with confirmed that Wave shouldnt have accepted the account closure request 
through email because its an unsecure communication channel. Ive reviewed the exchange 
in question and I dont agree that Mr E was given misleading information. I think the adviser 
explained that he wasnt able to give out account-specific information as Mr E had come 
through an unsecure email channel. He further explained that Mr E would need to come 
through his Wave app for the channel to be deemed secure. But Im persuaded that was 
because Mr E was on an unsecure channel at that point. So, I think the adviser had given 
accurate information, in the context of that conversation. And, on balance, I think the adviser 
did enough to explain the difference between secure and unsecure email correspondence. 
And, as I understand it, this was clarified in a follow-up telephone call, and in the final 
response letter sent to Mr E.
Mr E has told this service he stopped making payments towards his credit card as he 
thought Wave had closed the account unlawfully. He says he felt Wave threatened him by 
saying his credit file might be affected. Ive reviewed Waves communication on the matter. 
Waves advisers explained to Mr E that deciding not to make any payments towards his 
outstanding balance may impact his credit file. This was because Mr E agreed to make at 
least the minimum payment by the repayment date each month if a balance was owed. So, I 
think Waves advisers were trying to make Mr E aware of the implications of deciding not to 
make any payments. And if, as a result, adverse information was recorded, or reasonable 
charges were applied, on balance I dont think this would be unfair. 
I note Mr E says he was promised a call from one of Waves advisers, which didnt happen. 
As I understand it, Mr E suggests this was in relation to discussing the repayments towards 
his balance. Its unfortunate that Mr E didnt speak to a Wave adviser at this time, and its 
unclear from Waves submissions whether a call was attempted. That being said, I dont 
think a lack of a call meant that Wave wasnt willing to arrange a plan with Mr E, and I think 
its likely a plan could have still been arranged if the parties had found a way to discuss 
matters. And, while I cant see that a call was attempted on either side, Mr E was able to 
repay the balance on the account a few days after the call was promised for. So, whilst I 
agree Wave ought to have called Mr E, on balance, Im not persuaded any lack of call had a 
material impact in the circumstances. 
I understand that Mr E will be disappointed by this outcome but for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I wont be asking Wave to do anything in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman