DRN-4141779
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her Select, Silver and Gold
accounts which were taken out in December 2002, July 2009 and July 2012 respectively.
Miss C says that she believed that she had to hold these accounts in order to get an
overdraft facility.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed Miss Cs complaint and they didnt think that the packaged 
accounts had been mis-sold.
Miss C disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we deal with complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss C has said that she was led to believe that she needed the packaged accounts to have 
an overdraft. The evidence I have been provided with shows that Miss C applied for the 
Select account online rather than in branch. This indicates that Miss C chose to upgrade her 
account herself, rather than it being the case that Lloyds sold the account to her. Also, I cant 
see that Miss C applied for an overdraft until some months after she upgraded to the Select 
account. 
So in the circumstances, it seems unlikely that Miss C upgraded her account because she 
thought that it was the only way she could obtain an overdraft. I do note however, that at the 
time Miss C upgraded to the Select account, it included a £50 interest free overdraft facility 
and included lower rates of interest on overdrawn balances above this amount (up to the 
agreed limit). As such, I think its more likely that Miss C chose to upgrade because of the 
benefits the Select account provided, rather than because she thought she had no choice in 
the matter.
I note that when Miss C upgraded from the Select to the Silver account, she did not apply to 
increase her overdraft, and in fact had increased her overdraft limit whilst it was still a Select 
account. And it was the same when Miss C upgraded from the Silver to Gold account  
again there was no change to the overdraft limit when Miss C upgraded, and shed been 
able to increase her limit whilst she held the Silver account. Furthermore, there is evidence 
that Miss C discussed upgrading her Select account to a Platinum account in January 2009 
and Miss C chose not to do so. Therefore, when considering all of the evidence that is 
available, it seems to be the case that Miss C was aware she didnt need to upgrade on 
either occasion to have an overdraft facility, or indeed to increase her existing overdraft 
facility. 
Lloyds recommended the Silver and Gold account to Miss C so it needed to ensure that the 
accounts were a reasonable fit for Miss C.
  
I note that Miss C says she did not need the account benefits. But there is evidence that 
Miss C registered a number of mobile phones under the mobile phone cover between 2005 
and 2019. I understand that Miss C is unhappy with how a claim was handled. However, as 
the adjudicator explained, I cant hold Lloyds responsible for this as the travel insurer is 
responsible for how claims are handled.
There is also evidence that Miss C contacted the breakdown cover provider between 2004 
and 2010. This indicates that Miss C may well have been relying on the breakdown cover 
provided by the accounts as well. And Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Miss C 
made a number of queries about the travel insurance and occasionally paid additional 
premiums to upgrade the level of cover it provided. So again, this indicates that Miss C did 
rely on the travel cover too. 
So overall I think that Lloyds recommending these accounts was not unreasonable.
Miss C has said that the additional premium she had to pay in more recent times to upgrade 
the travel cover was expensive and so purchased cover elsewhere. However, Lloyds was 
only required highlight the important terms and exclusions to Miss C during the sale of the 
accounts e.g. if she had pre-existing medical conditions to declare to the insurer. And the 
fact that Miss C did contact the insurer to upgrade cover and also check the level of cover 
provided indicates that shed been made aware of the need to do so. I cant however, hold 
Lloyds responsible because Miss C felt that insurers additional premiums were expensive, 
because they are decided by the insurer  not Lloyds. Ultimately it was her choice as to 
whether to continue to hold the account after this happened.
All of the above indicates that Miss C was given enough information about the account and 
the associated benefits so that she was able to understand what cover she received and 
also how to go about registering for cover; how to make claims; and also how to upgrade the 
cover it provided. And although Lloyds may not have provided Miss C with all of the 
important information about the accounts during each sale, Ive not seen anything that 
makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the upgrades, had she been 
given even more information about the packaged accounts during the sales. 
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Miss C may now feel that the packaged 
accounts were poor value for money, and she may now regret agreeing to them. But that 
doesnt mean that they were mis-sold or that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably by selling 
the accounts to Miss C when it did. So taking everything into account, I am unable to 
conclude that the packaged accounts were mis-sold.
Finally, I note that Miss C says that years later she asked to downgrade, but was told she 
needed to keep the accounts to retain her overdraft. Unfortunately, Miss C has not specified when these conversations took place. Nonetheless, I 
have reviewed the evidence, especially the customer notes that Lloyds has provided, to see 
if there is any evidence to suggest that Miss C was given incorrect information. And although 
there are a number of fairly detailed notes around Miss Cs borrowing needs, there is no 
indication that Miss C discussed downgrading her account  or that she was told her 
overdraft was conditional on her having a packaged account. 
So when weighing everything up, Im unable to conclude that that Lloyds had incorrectly told 
Miss C she couldnt downgrade her accounts. And even if these conversations did take 
place, I cant rule out the possibility that Lloyds reminded Miss C of the overdraft benefit she 
was receiving (and would lose if she downgraded) and therefore she chose to continue with 
the packaged account instead. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman