DRN-3447318
The complaint
Mr C says Capital One (Europe) Plc, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on 
his credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr C used his Capital One credit card to pay for flights in October 2021. 
Just before flying Mr C tested positive for Covid. So he tried to change the flights, but the 
airline said it would apply additional charges due to the short notice of the changes. So Mr C 
complained to Capital One.
Capital One says it asked Mr C for further information. It says he didnt provide it. So it didnt 
take his dispute further. So Mr C still unsatisfied brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Capital One didnt have to do any more. And Mr C remains unhappy and 
so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C used his Capital One credit card to pay for the flights. This means Capital One has 
certain responsibilities to Mr C which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary Section 75, if certain criteria are met, 
has the effect of allowing Mr C to hold Capital One liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a large 
amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide 
what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is said which 
is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
Capital One credit cards also operate within a card network. And this network has rules 
which includes giving Capital One an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with 
Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Capital One and whether it 
did what it should have and whether it treated Mr C fairly. This decision isnt about the airline 
which isnt party to this decision and isnt within this services remit for complaints regarding 
Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Capital One challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr C 
does here, Capital One can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr C doesnt 
dispute that he used his Capital One credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, 
or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Capital One couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr C didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Capital One is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when 
it is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through 
the process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage 
if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Capital One didnt raise a chargeback because it says it didnt have enough information to 
do so. Mr C says he provided it with everything asked for and that he had problems liaising 
with Capital One. However whether or not Mr C did provide the evidence or whether Capital 
One should or should not have raised a chargeback doesnt make a difference to my mind. I 
shall explain why.
Ive considered the conditions of the flights purchased. I note they were non-refundable. I 
also can see that such charges for changing flights were in the contract. And the flights flew. 
So Im satisfied that the airline didnt do anything wrong. So had Capital One raised a 
chargeback in line with good practice I think it would have been unsuccessful because the 
airline would have defended it fairly. And then Capital One would have been unsuccessful in 
in recovering the cost of the flights. And Mr C wouldnt have got the money back. So I dont 
think Mr C lost out here because Capital One didnt raise a Chargeback, as I think, on 
balance, such a Chargeback was unlikely to succeed.
I appreciate Mr Cs comments about doing the honest law-abiding thing by not flying when 
he tested positive for Covid. And I appreciate that its not Mr Cs fault he caught Covid. But it 
wasnt the airlines fault, nor was it Capital Ones. So Capital One hasnt done anything 
wrong here.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits. For a dispute to be successful 
against Capital One under the CCA the transaction for a single item has to be more than 
£100 and less than £30,000.
Mr C paid just over £50 for his flights in total. So this dispute doesnt meet the requirements 
of the CCA and thus cannot be successful. So Capital One doesnt have to do any more in 
relation to S75. So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr C has said, Im 
not persuaded Capital One has treated Mr C unfairly. So I dont think Capital One hasnt 
done anything wrong here which needs remedy.
I appreciate Mr C feels hes done nothing wrong.  And this isnt the decision he wishes to 
read. But Capital One hasnt done anything which means Mr C has lost out. So it doesnt 
have anything more to do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint Capital One (Europe) Plc. It 
has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman