DRN-4379187
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated them unfairly in relation to payments 
they made.
The account in question is a joint account, however, for the ease of read I will mostly refer to 
Mr B in this decision, because hes communicated with us about the complaint.  
What happened
Mr B bought a vintage photograph from an overseas auction house in 2022. He paid for this 
using a bank transfer from the joint account. Soon afterwards, Mr B noticed the photograph 
had started to fade, so he contacted HSBC to see if he could get his money back.
HSBC refused to process a chargeback and other payment claim, explaining this only 
applied to payments made by debit and credit card, and Mr B had paid for the picture by 
bank transfer. Mr B wasnt happy, so he raised a complaint. He was concerned HSBC didnt 
make it clear that if you made a payment by bank transfer you wouldnt have any rights 
should something go wrong. He said, many auction places insisted on payment by bank 
transfer and didnt accept cards. Overall, he believed there was an imbalance in providing 
protection and warnings, which was to the detriment of the customer. He felt banks 
deliberately pushed customers towards transfers to protect themselves from risk.
Mr B wanted HSBC to refund him, however, the bank declined. 
One of our investigators took a look into what happened but she didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. She explained there wasnt an obligation on HSBC to warn customers 
about the lack of consumer protection for bank transfers. However, Mr B disagreed and 
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. In doing so, he made the following 
points. In summary:
- A bank transfer wasn't the only option. The auction house could receive credit card 
payments but because of the fees, this acted as a disincentive for them to go down 
this route. This spoke to his point that banks encourage customers to use bank 
transfers instead.
- Fraud and scams risks are thoroughly interrogated by banks. Why dont they follow a 
similar procedure for other forms of risk, such as, when something goes wrong in 
relation to a purchase.  
- One of HSBCs own staff members had admitted that not setting out the risks of bank 
transfers was unfair. This should be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr B feels strongly about whats happened. Hes made a detailed submission in 
support of his complaint, which I have read and considered. I hope the fact that I do not 
respond in a similar manner will not be taken as a discourtesy; as an informal dispute 
resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the 
minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond to every point made, 
but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. The relevant question is, did the bank do 
something wrong?
Its not in dispute that the type of assistance available through chargeback and the section 
75 mechanisms didnt apply, because a bank transfer was used. Instead, the basis for Mr 
Bs complaint is that he considers there should be an onus or responsibility on a bank to 
warn customers that, there is a lack of protection if they pay using a transfer. Hes cited his 
reasons for this. 
All the points Mr B makes may be worthy of changes to regulation and good industry 
practice in the future. But at the point the transfer was executed there was no such 
expectation on the bank to provide this warning or promote other forms of payment. Had Mr 
B called HSBC before making the payment and discussed what he was planning to do, and 
it had omitted to give him information or misled him in some way, I might be reaching a 
different conclusion. But no such interaction took place. 
Ive considered the comments made by the staff member, but these dont change the 
outcome. Because as Ive explained, Im satisfied HSBC didnt make a mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman