DRN-3037750
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the advice and service they received from Castlegate 
Investments LLP, referred to as the business. 
In short, they say the investment advice was unsuitable and the fees/commission were too 
high. They also say that werent provided a good service in terms of ongoing advice and 
meetings.    
Mr and Mrs J are being assisted by their daughter, Mrs B. 
What happened
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
The advice, in respect of the various recommendations made over the years, was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs J. Its not responsible for any advice they received prior to 
them becoming its customers. 
It has conducted reviews in line with its obligations over the years. Recently it 
changed from six-monthly reviews (twice a year) to once a year, in respect of which it 
notified its customers accordingly. 
It made clear the fees and commission in respect of the various recommendations. 
It provided policy documentation that made reasonably clear the nature and 
operation of the investments. 
It cant understand why Mr and Mrs J have decided to complain now having had 
opportunity to do so over the last decade. 
As a gesture of goodwill, it offered to refund the 2018 fees that amounted to roughly 
£5,000.  
  
Unhappy with the business response Mrs B referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld, for 
similar reasons to the business. In short, he said:
On the face of the available evidence, he was unable to say that the business had 
done anything wrong. 
The fees and charges were declared and made clear by the business, and agreed to 
by Mr and Mrs J.
Hes unable to say the business was wrong to charge the rates that it did. 
The advice was broadly suitable, and the business provided a service in line with its 
obligations. 
All the key documents in respect of the recommendations made appear to be read, 
signed and complete. 
No specific complaint was made about any asset allocation. 
The business was entitled to change its process from conducting reviews every six 
months to once a year. 
He cant uphold the complaint based on a missed review meeting. Meetings were 
also cancelled by Mr and Mrs J, but there was nothing to stop them from 
rescheduling if they wanted to. 
Mr and Mrs J, if they had concerns, couldve raised an issue with the business a long 
time ago. 
Mrs and Mrs J disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, Mrs B made the following key observations:
Mr and Mrs J shouldve flagged up issues a long time ago, although she did raise 
issues about the commission in 2017. 
Mr and Mrs J trusted the adviser and signed on the dotted line. But the adviser 
exploited/took advantage of their trust.
There were high charges and poor performance for a number of years.  
The business shouldve advised Mr and Mrs J on all investments, including historic 
investments. 
She understands that the business wasnt responsible for fund performance. If funds 
werent doing well, why wasnt the investment reviewed and Mr and Mrs J advised to 
add funds/invest elsewhere.  
No advice was given over a two-year period, after the business changed its advice 
policy.  
She wants the portfolio reviewed, and the matter referred to an ombudsman. 
The investigator, having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
He cant fault an adviser for making recommendations in line with its obligations. Hes 
seen nothing to suggest that unnecessary/unsuitable advice was given, or that 
advice was given solely for the purposes of generating more income for the business.  
If Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy with the level of service, fees or charges, or fund 
performance they shouldve complained sooner. And if they remained unhappy it was 
their responsibility to move to another business/adviser. 
The level of charges set was a matter for the business, for the advice and service it 
provided. If Mr and Mrs J were primarily concerned about cost issues they couldve 
sought an alternative business with lower fees and charges. 
The business provided cost effective recommendations, almost always choosing the 
lowest cost provider. 
The business declared the relevant fees and Mr and Mrs J signed the relevant 
documentation accepting those fees. So, they cant, at a later date, say that they 
werent aware of these figures. 
The documentation provided shows that the adviser was very thorough in the advice 
provided.   
Overall, the recommendations were for investment in large blue-chip investment 
house funds. The platform fees are transparent and available to be checked and 
reviewed in the fee application. 
Having reviewed the annual portfolio reviews for the past few years and the schedule 
of policies, he found that the investment houses involved were some of the largest 
and highly recommended investment managers and fund managers in the UK 
market. Their fund products are regularly recommended by most financial advisers 
for their quality, long term performance record and competitive level of fees and 
charges.
Hes unable to say that the asset allocation was unsuitable for elderly low to medium 
risk investors looking for a combination of distributing income and a fixed interest 
lower risk income generating assets. Income was provided from the Distribution 
funds, Equity Income funds, With Profits and blended moderate risk funds.Mr and Mrs J were also advised to invest in suitable long-term capital growth funds 
that gave reasonable exposure to medium risk equities over the long term. 
Hes unable to say that the funds or the portfolio asset structure was unsuitable. 
Since 2017, the funds have generally done well, some very well against their 
indicated benchmark/indices. 
Hes seen no evidence of poor performance. Just because some low risk funds 
havent performed as well as other investments, doesnt mean the advice was 
unsuitable. The business couldnt have known how funds were likely to perform in the 
future. 
Hes seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs J have been taken advantage of. 
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
maintained her complaint but made no new material points.    
Im aware that Mrs B has since approached the business directly, asking if it would 
reconsider its initial goodwill offer, as a full and final settlement of this complaint and without 
needing an ombudsmans decision. 
The business has since confirmed that the offer had been withdrawn after it was rejected. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs B says, Im not persuaded 
that the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, Im unable to safely say that Mr 
and Mrs J were given unsuitable advice or that the service was such that the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr and Mrs Js strength of feeling about this matter. Mrs B has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope Mr and Mrs J wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. Im also sorry for the delays in getting to 
this stage caused by Covid-19 related issues.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs B and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its not my role to 
review the file and see if Mr and Mrs J might have a complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I think all the pertinent points that could be made, have been made, by the parties and 
therefore I dont intend to repeat them in my decision. Despite the generalist nature and size of the complaint, Ive seen nothing to persuade me that the business has behaved 
unreasonably in respect of the advice and service it provided since 2012. 
The business has provided a substantial and comprehensive copy of the key policy 
documentation in respect of the various recommendations (and fees/commission) made over 
the years. In the circumstances I think it would be helpful to refer to matters generally rather 
than comment on each individual investment, especially as this complaint is against the 
business only and not the individual investment providers.   
That notwithstanding, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the nature and operation of the 
investments werent made clear, or that the fees and charges havent been disclosed. Im 
aware the business says that key information, such as fees and charges, wouldve also been 
provided independently by the investment provider. Therefore, Mr and Mr J wouldve been 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of the fees and commission from the outset 
for the various investments.  
Based on the documentation provided by the business and the findings of the investigator, it 
seems that Mr and Mrs Js investments were doing reasonably well and certainly since Mrs 
B raised concerns in 2017. But even if the investments werent doing as well as Mr and Mrs 
J had expected, this wouldnt necessarily mean that the investment advice was unsuitable. 
Poor performance isnt generally of itself a subject matter that we would consider a 
complaint about, because its not something that the business can predict or has control over 
and is dependent on numerous factors outside of its control. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs J were given any guarantees in terms of returns, or that they 
werent willing to take some risk to achieve better returns. 
Depending on the nature of the investment, its not always advisable to switch investments, 
just because of fluctuations, especially in the early years, if an investment is for the longer 
term. So, I cant blame the business for not advising Mr and Mrs J to switch funds just 
because a fund wasnt doing as well as theyd expected. 
Similarly, where it has advised them to make new investments, I cant see that its done 
anything wrong in the circumstances. Ive seen nothing to suggest that advice to 
switch/make new investments was given without reason and justification. Despite what Mrs 
B says, Im unable to safely say that it was given solely to generate an income/commission 
for the business. 
Mr and Mrs J werent forced to sign on the dotted line, if they didnt understand something 
that was said at a meeting or felt the meeting time wasnt enough, they ought to have raised 
an issue at the time.  
I note what Mrs B says about previous investments, prior to joining the business, or as she 
puts it lurid past regarding transparency but that might be something she needs to take up 
with the previous business responsible for the advice, if possible. I note Mrs B says the 
previous businesses have either gone into liquidation or dissolved. Whilst Im aware that the 
adviser has advised Mr and Mrs J since 1994/1995, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the 
business was responsible for the historic investment advice, prior to them moving to the 
business.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that the recommendations 
were unsuitable for a low to medium risk investor. Or that the investments carried more risk 
than Mr and Mrs J were willing to take given their overall portfolio. Im mindful that Mr and 
Mrs J werent first time investors and had a reasonable amount of investment experience. I note in 2012, it was recorded that they were four out of ten, or cautious balanced 
investors, and that Inheritance Tax Planning was a priority for then, but theres no reason 
why that might not change for certain investments over time.  
A business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to 
set its own fees. Its not for us to tell it how to run its business. In this instance, it seems to 
me that the business was entitled to charge a fee for its advice and services, and Mr and 
Mrs J agreed to pay it in respect of their various investments. Im aware that fees and 
charges can differ depending on the investment, so a higher charge or fee doesnt 
automatically mean a product is unsuitable. 
Similarly, I think the business is entitled to change the way that it reviews its customers 
investments. I dont think it has done anything wrong by doing so, and on balance Im 
satisfied it notified them of the change. But like the investigator, I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld based on a missed meeting. Im aware intermittent contact was maintained 
with the adviser/business for various reasons and Mr and Mrs J had ample opportunity to 
raise any concerns that they had. 
It seems to me that the business was entitled to receive the trail commission and fees which 
was agreed at the outset, even for products that it didnt advise on but took agency for  that 
might explain why it was unable to find a previous product immediately. 
Im mindful that the trail commission was outlawed by the industry regulator, the Financial 
Services Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA)), as part of its Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR) in 2012, for any new investments. 
The RDR 2012 was a review that, among other things, sought to improve transparency in 
the communication of investment charges. As a result, financial advisers were required to 
provide information upfront about fees for the service they provided or what the commission 
was for. 
The RDR, which came into force around January 2013  and ruled out trail commission  
only applies to new investments sold after this time. In other words, because the RDR wasnt 
retrospective, it didnt apply to investments before its time. So, Mr and Mrs J should 
understand that the new position only applied to new investments sold after January 2013. In 
other words, the changes dont apply retrospectively.
Despite what Mrs B says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the only investment that the 
business advised for which trail commission was relevant, was deliberately pushed through 
so trail commission could be claimed.  
Whilst I appreciate the points Mrs B makes about the adviser  your friendly expert adviser 
that they trusted to provide them with sound advice  Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs J 
were either exploited or taken advantage of by the adviser or the business. In other words, 
on the face of the evidence, its not a conclusion I can safely make. And if Mr and Mrs J 
signed documents without worrying about the contents or details, I dont think I can blame 
the adviser for this. I note theyve never requested to have a member of their family present 
during any of the meetings, which would suggest that they could make their own decisions.
Im aware that they had long relationship with the adviser, even before he joined the 
business, spanning several decades. In other words, Im unable to safely conclude that Mr 
and Mrs J made investments that they wouldnt otherwise have made, because they were in 
some way duped. I understand that the business was approached by Mrs B about its initial goodwill offer which 
it has since withdrawn. In the circumstances, Im unable to ask the business to pay any 
compensation because I dont think it has behaved unreasonably. In the circumstances its 
entirely a matter for the business whether (or not) it decides to pay the goodwill gesture, but 
its not something I can recommend it do. 
Im mindful the initial offer was made after much consideration, on the basis that its 
longstanding clients felt dissatisfied with the service they received, which I understand they 
do, even though the business accepted no liability.    
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate 
their frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what 
they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman