DRN-1731300
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Vauxhall Finance Plc has altered the terms of his finance agreement 
and set up a new direct debit without his consent. He wants an explanation and an 
assurance that he's a legally valid agreement.
What happened
Mr W tells us that he took out a Personal Contract Purchase agreement with Vauxhall in 
November 2018, for a period of four years. He says that a year or so later he received a 
welcome letter which suggested the agreement had only started in November 2019. He 
explains that Vauxhall told him that the original agreement had been cancelled due to errors 
and a new one set up. He says Vauxhall has offered him £25 compensation for its error.
Vauxhall told us that the original agreement hadnt been cancelled. And that there arent any 
changes to it. It explained that its internal system had been set up with incorrect dealer 
information. And in order to rectify the problems this was causing it had been necessary to 
close Mr W's customer account and open a new one.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that Vauxhall 
had explained that due to incorrect information on its internal system it had been necessary 
to change this. This had involved closing and then reopening the (same) agreement. The 
welcome pack had been sent to Mr W by mistake. She was satisfied that nothing had 
changed and that Mr W hadnt suffered any financial loss. She thought Vauxhalls offer to 
credit the account with £25 was fair.
Mr W didnt agree and indicated he thought the agreement wouldnt be enforceable. As its 
not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr W has been inconvenienced by the confusion caused by the receipt of the 
unexpected welcome letter. I can understand why hed be concerned to think that there had 
been changes made to his agreement without his permission.
Im aware that in his conversations with our investigator Mr W has cast doubt on whether the 
agreement he signed has any legal effect. And hes also queried how a different direct debit 
was set up without his knowledge.
I need to explain from the outset that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into 
account.My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP). These can be found in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook.
DISP 3.6.1 states:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
DISP 3.6.4 says I need to take into account relevant:
 law and regulations;
 regulators rules guidance and standards:
 codes of practice:
and  (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having examined the information with which Ive been supplied Im satisfied there have been 
no alterations which materially affect the finance agreement signed by Mr W in 2018. Its not 
for me to determine the legal status of any contractual agreement. But what I can say is that 
Im not aware of anything which has changed the legal status of the agreement which Mr W 
signed with Vauxhall in respect of this vehicle.
Neither party has provided any information which shows there is a new finance agreement. 
And I see no reason to doubt that the original agreement remains in force.
The direct debit appears unaffected other than the reference number has changed. This 
seems to be no more than an internal bank administration issue.
Apart from the regrettable inconvenience caused to Mr W - which Vauxhall has 
acknowledged - Ive not seen any information to show that Mr W has incurred any financial 
loss due to Vauxhalls error. Or that the status of the agreement has changed since it was 
originally incepted in 2018.
In summary, what's happened is that an internal error occurred within Vauxhall's 
administration system. In order to rectify that error Vauxhall had to make certain procedural 
adjustments. Unfortunately it failed to prevent a further "welcome"  letter from being sent to 
Mr W. And this understandably created some confusion and concern. I'm satisfied nothing 
material has altered in terms of the legal status of Mr W's agreement. And that he's not 
incurred any financial loss.
I agree with our investigator's view that Vauxhall has explained its error. And that its 
crediting Mr W's account with £25 is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.Accordingly, I'm not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman