DRN-3173757
The complaint
Miss G complains about the advice given by Portafina Investment Management Limited 
(Portafina) to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for 
her.
Miss G is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Miss G.
What happened
Miss G has said she saw an advert for Portafina online which talked about potentially being 
able to release money from her pension. So, she approached Portafina around April 2019 to 
discuss this. Miss G completed a pension review form indicating there were two pensions 
that she wished to discuss  both of which were DB schemes. 
Portafina gathered information about both schemes, including the cash equivalent transfer 
values (CETV). The larger pension had a CETV of £34,101, while the smaller had a CETV 
of £2,156.27. It also carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS)  to assist in analysing if a 
transfer was appropriate  in respect of both pensions. 
I understand Portafina also gathered some information from Miss G about her circumstances 
and attitude to risk, although we havent been provided a copy of the fact-find document, so 
it isnt clear the extent of the information gathered. I understand from the information Miss G 
has provided as part of her complaint that she was 54 at the time, was not working and in 
fact was medically retired and in receipt of benefits.
Portafina wrote to Miss G on 24 July 2019 with its initial recommendation. In that letter it 
thanked Miss G for providing details about her circumstances and summarised that her 
objective was to raise funds to take a holiday lasting 4-5 months and complete some home 
improvements. The letter said that during the conversation Miss G had indicated shed need 
approximately £4,000 for the holiday and an additional £1,000 for the home improvements. It 
also said that Miss G had agreed she was likely to need an income of £9,744 per annum in 
retirement to meet her needs.
The letter went on to say that Portafina did not recommend that Miss G transfer her larger 
DB pension. It said, amongst other things, this was because she had a low capacity for loss, 
shed lose valuable guaranteed benefits, the reason for transferring and withdrawing funds 
didnt justify the loss of benefits and her retirement needs would likely not be met if she did. 
Portafina did however say that it recommended that Miss G transfer the smaller DB scheme 
and take the whole of your [smaller DB scheme pension] as a lump sum.
It went on to explain As this would fall within your personal allowance, there
should be no tax to pay, however, you may have to reclaim any emergency tax taken.
It would also be safely within the capital thresholds and not affect your State benefits.
We realise this is a lower amount of cash than you originally wanted and may mean you
have to re-think how best to use the funds, but it does mean your retirement will be a more
comfortable one.
The letter said that Miss G could either opt to ignore its recommendation and still transfer 
both pensions, in which case shed be considered an insistent client, or could accept the 
recommendation  noting that the transfer couldnt be completed until her 55th birthday later 
that year.
Miss G completed a form indicating that she wished to accept the recommendation and only 
make changes to her smaller DB scheme.
Then, on 29 August 2019, Portafina sent Miss G a suitability report. This confirmed that 
Portafina recommended transferring the smaller DB scheme to a SIPP and taking the entire 
pot as a lump sum. It noted £539 would be tax free but also that the remainder should also 
not incur any tax due to Miss Gs circumstances. 
The suitability report again said that Miss Gs objectives were to take an extended holiday 
and complete home improvements. But it stated that Miss G had told Portafina shed need 
£1,156.27 for the holiday and £1,000 for the renovations  the total happening to be the 
transfer value of the DB scheme. It said that releasing this money was very important to 
Miss G, she didnt have any disposable income with which to meet her objectives, didnt 
want to take out finance and even after the transfer her retirement needs should still be met. 
After the recommendation had been explained the report summarised the benefits that 
would be lost as a result of the transfer and also the fees Miss G would pay Portafina for its 
advice and the SIPP provider for administering the policy. It said that the fee would be 
deducted from Miss Gs pension so she wouldnt have to find the money and that its advice 
had taken this into account.
The transfer went ahead in January 2020 in line with Portafinas recommendation.
Miss G later complained to Portafina that the advice it provided to transfer her smaller DB 
scheme was unsuitable. She said Portafina had emphasised releasing money from her 
pension from the first contact she had with them, so hadnt acted objectively and the process 
it followed of recommending this before providing a suitability report had made it difficult for 
her to make an informed decision. She said that the transfer had not given enough money to 
meet her objectives, even less so when considering fees. And these objectives were not 
essential anyway. So, she thought the transfer was not in her best interests given the 
guaranteed benefits she gave up. And had she been correctly advised by Portafina, she 
wouldnt have transferred. She added that the fee for Portafinas advice hadnt been 
collected and it was chasing her for payment, but she wasnt able to pay.
I understand Portafina disagreed and the complaint was referred to our service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld and Portafina should 
pay compensation, waive the advice fee and pay £350 for the distress caused. In summary 
he found that the transfer was always likely to leave Miss G worse off financially. He didnt 
think the objectives which were to be funded by the transfer were essential. And he didnt 
think they were in fact achievable anyway based on the amount released and the charges 
levied and questioned the change in the amount quoted as being required.
Portafina did not agree. It felt the advice was suitable, noting it had recommended not to 
transfer the larger DB scheme. It said the value of the pension that was transferred was 
small, the loss of income not significant and that Miss Gs retirement needs would still be 
met after the transfer. And it said achieving Miss Gs objectives were important to her and it 
was entitled to rely on the information it had been given about how much she needed to 
raise. The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Having 
done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by the 
investigator. 
The complaint centres around the advice to transfer the smaller DB scheme. Portafina did 
not recommend that Miss G transfer her larger DB pension. And Miss G is not complaining 
about that advice. So, my decision largely will just focus on the recommendation, which was 
followed, to transfer the smaller DB pension.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portafina should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Miss Gs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
As Ive mentioned, Portafina commissioned a TVAS report. This said that if Miss G remained 
in the DB scheme she couldve, at age 60, either taken a full pension of approximately £143 
per year and a tax free cash (TFC) sum of £373, or a reduced pension of £112 and TFC of 
£747.
The TVAS report detailed the critical yield - the investment return that would be required of 
the new pension to match the benefits of the occupational pension at retirement  as being 
in excess of 20%. Although I think its likely that figure is inaccurate and couldve been 
higher still as the TVAS used an assumption about the level of fees which was significantly 
lower than those actually charged. And the TVAS included a transfer value comparator  
what the cost of replacing the scheme benefits at retirement would be  and said this was 
£5,907. So, the same benefits would cost approximately £3,750 more that the transfer value 
(before even accounting for fees deducted)  and this additional money would need to be 
found or earned through investment within six years. This information was included in the 
suitability report. 
It was highly unlikely that such growth couldve been achieved if the funds had been 
transferred and invested. And so, had the transfer been recommended with this intention, I 
think Miss G wouldve always been likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall 
value than the DB scheme at retirement. 
But Portafina didnt recommend that the pension be invested once it was transferred. It 
recommended that it be withdrawn entirely and used by Miss G to pay for goods and 
services at the time. So, Miss G was guaranteed, as a result of the recommendation to be 
worse off in retirement as a result of the transfer. This is because there would be no future 
pension income at all from these funds. 
This significantly contradicts the statement Portafina made in its letter of 24 July 2019 that 
Miss Gs retirement will be a more comfortable one. A lump sum was made available, for 
Miss G to meet immediate goals. But her retirement income was reduced. So, I think this statement was misleading. And, from a financial viability point of view, the transfer does not 
appear to have been in Miss Gs best interests as the main purpose of a pension is to 
provide an income in retirement. But the recommendation guaranteed Miss Gs income in 
retirement would reduce.
Portafina says that Miss Gs objectives at the time were important to her and that the transfer 
allowed her to meet these. So, as the benefits given up in exchange were small, it believed 
that the transfer was suitable. This is despite the fact it had noted, when looking at the 
transfer of the larger pension, Miss G had a low capacity for loss and the reason for 
transferring wasnt justified. And also, despite the fact shed still lose guaranteed benefits by 
following its advice.
Portafina wasnt there to just transact what Miss G might have thought she wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Miss G needed and recommend what was in 
her best interests
Miss Gs stated objectives were to fund an extended holiday and pay for some home 
renovations. But I havent seen anything that indicates she had a particular need for either of 
these things. Nor does it appear from what Ive seen that the urgency of these objectives 
was explored in great detail by Portafina. From what Ive seen these appear to have been 
potential uses for any money released but not essential. So, I dont think Miss G had a 
pressing need for money to be released from her pension.
But in any event, I dont think the recommendation allowed these objectives to be met, and 
Im satisfied that Portafina was aware of that.
The letter it sent on 24 July 2019 said Miss G had said in conversation with Portafina that 
she likely required £4,000 for a holiday and £1,000 for renovations. The recommendation 
was that she take the entirety of her DB scheme as a lump sum, as this would likely not incur 
tax. But the DB scheme only had a value of £2,156.27  significantly less than what Miss G 
had initially said shed likely require. And there was no suggestion or recommendation from 
Portafina as to how Miss G could meet the shortfall. 
Indeed the letter of 24 July 2019 acknowledged this was less than Miss G had asked for and 
that her objectives would not be achievable  saying that Miss G would need to re-think how 
best to use the funds. It is difficult to see therefore how the transfer can be argued to have 
been in Miss Gs best interests at that point, when it wouldnt have allowed her to meet her 
objectives and would leave her worse off in retirement.
The suitability report, sent after Miss G had said shed proceed in line with the advice, said 
Miss G required £1,156.27 to pay for a holiday and £1,000 for home renovations. This was 
significantly less than the initial recommendation was based on and just so happened to 
match the total value of the DB scheme being transferred. 
Portafina has said it is entitled to rely on the information provided to it unless it has reason to 
doubt this. But I havent been provided anything that indicates Miss G gave these revised 
figures. And I think Portafina wouldve had grounds to question them, even if she had. The 
holiday that was discussed, the objective with the larger expense, was said to be for a 
duration of 4-5 months. That is noted in both the letter of 24 July 2019 and the suitability 
report. So, the duration and extent of the holiday  the objective  was unchanged. Yet 
according to these figures the initial estimate was incorrect and had been reduced by almost 
75%. I think that ought to have given Portafina grounds to question the figures and in turn 
whether the recommendation would allow Miss G to meet her objectives. But I cant see that 
it did.And even if I accepted these revised figures were correct and had been provided by Miss G, 
I still dont think the recommendation was likely to allow her objectives to be met. According 
to Portafina, the value of the DB scheme was exactly the amount Miss G required. And it 
indicated she had no disposable income, savings or other means to meet these objectives. 
So, she wouldve needed all of the money released to achieve these objectives. But 
Portafina charged £500 for its advice. And the suitability report indicated the SIPP provider 
would levy a charge for administrative purposes as well. And the report said these fees 
would be deducted from the pension. So, based on the information provided Miss G wasnt 
scheduled to receive the £2,156.27 she apparently required. It isnt clear if these charges 
were deducted or if Miss G has in fact been invoiced separately. But given Portafina 
recorded that Miss G had no disposable income or other assets available, the fees would 
likely always have needed to be paid from the funds released. Meaning Miss G was not 
going to be able to meet her objectives by following the recommendation made. Portafinas 
suitability report said it had accounted for this in its advice. But I fail to see how.
So, in summary, I dont think Miss G had a genuine need for the funds. The recommendation 
made by Portafina did not allow her to meet her objectives anyway. And it was going to 
leave her worse off in retirement. While it is true that the pension benefits Miss G wouldve 
received under the DB scheme were relatively modest, they were guaranteed. And the 
benefit amount wouldve continued to increase in retirement. So, I dont see that giving them 
up, particularly as doing so didnt even allow her to meet her apparent objectives, was in her 
best interests. As a result, I dont think the advice provided by Portafina was suitable. And, I 
think Portafina shouldve advised Miss G to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Miss G would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Portafina's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss G wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Portafinas advice. Miss G has said she was an 
inexperienced investor, and Ive seen nothing to dispute this. Im also conscious that she 
accepted and did not challenge Portafinas advice in relation to her larger DB scheme, when 
it strongly recommended that she not transfer it.
So, if Portafina had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the smaller DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that 
advice.
In light of the above, I think Portafina should compensate Miss G for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
As Ive said, it isnt clear what happened with the fee Portafina charged here. The suitability 
report suggested this, and the SIPP providers fee would be deducted from the pension. And 
if this had happened, the redress methodology set by the regulator would, I understand, 
account for these fees. But Miss G has indicated Portafinas fee wasnt deducted and hadnt 
been paid at the point she complained. And the statement from the SIPP provider that Ive 
seen seems to suggest this is correct. So, in the event the fee wasnt deducted directly from 
the pension, which on balance it appears it wasnt, I agree that this should now either be 
waived by Portafina, if not collected, or refunded if Miss G has paid this directly while the 
complaint has been ongoing.
Our investigator also recommended that Portafina pay Miss G £350 for the distress caused 
to her. I dont doubt that Miss G has been caused distress and concern as a result of the 
disruption to her retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is reasonable.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss G, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Miss G 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, although Miss G is medically retired, I dont think shed have taken benefits from 
her DB scheme until the scheduled retirement age of the scheme, which in this case I 
understand to be age 60. So, compensation should be based on this assumption
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Gs acceptance of the decision.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Miss Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Gs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, Id normally recommend that the 
compensation be paid into Miss Gs pension plan if possible. But I understand that the funds 
placed into the SIPP, as a result of Portafinas advice, were withdrawn in full and that the 
SIPP is now likely closed. So, in the circumstances I think compensation should be paid 
directly to Miss G as a lump sum. 
Usually wed say that a notional deduction should be made from the compensation to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. But based on the information that Ive 
seen about Miss Gs retirement provisions and what her income in retirement is likely to be, I 
think it seems probable her income will be under the annual tax allowance. So, in this case, I 
dont think a notional deduction is appropriate. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Miss G within 90 days of the date Portafina receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portafina to pay 
Miss G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition to the compensation amount, if the advice fee charged by Portafina was not 
deducted from the pension  which on balance it appears it wasnt  this fee should be 
waived or, if it has been paid directly by Miss G, refunded to her in full. 
Portafina should also pay Miss G an additional £350 for the distress caused to her.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Portafina Investment Management Limited to pay Miss G 
compensation as set out above in the putting things right section of my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman