DRN-3208644
The complaint
Ms L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, restricted access to her 
account and wont release her funds. 
What happened
Ms L is being represented by Mr L throughout this complaint. 
Ms L has two accounts with Clydesdale  a current and a saver account. In May 2020 on 
opening the two accounts Mr L asked for third party authority to operate the account  and 
on providing power of attorney he was informed this would be arranged. 
On the 18 December 2020 Mr L transferred £4,600 into Ms Ls current account, and soon 
after he attempted to transfer £4,200 to a cryptocurrency provider. On attempting to transfer 
the funds out Virgin Money blocked access to the account. Mr L visited his local branch and 
he explained hed moved money into Ms Ls account to invest in cryptocurrency  and he 
had third party authority on the account. However Virgin Money werent satisfied with Mr Ls 
explanation and informed him the account would be blocked for 30 days to enable a fraud 
investigation to be completed. 
Virgin Money looked into Ms Ls account  and the power of attorney documentation  and 
discovered that the order only covered matters of personal welfare but not financial matters. 
They explained to Mr L theyd have to remove his access to Ms Ls account. They asked 
Mr L to provide evidence of any other documentation that showed he had the authority to 
manage Ms Ls finances. 
On the 15 January 2021 Mr L spoke with Virgin Money to ask how Ms L could access her 
funds, and he was informed she could visit a branch with her card and PIN. Ms L visited a 
branch on the 18 January 2021 however was informed that her account was still restricted. 
Virgin Money looked into Ms Ls complaint  the bank accepted theyd made errors in their 
handling of Ms Ls account. The bank explained they shouldnt have given Mr L authority to 
operate the account when it was opened, this should have been identified before and they 
were sorry Ms L had been told to visit the branch to collect funds. They advised Mr L if hed 
like the authority to operate Ms Ls account hed need to obtain power of attorney for Ms Ls 
financial affairs. But, the bank offered £200 compensation for the errors made. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Virgin Moneys response so complained to our service. 
Mr L explained that he lost the opportunity to invest Ms Ls funds in cryptocurrency. And 
whilst the funds have been restricted, cryptocurrency has significantly increased in value. 
Mr L would like an apology and compensation of 50%, £2,100, of the investment value. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. But they didnt think Virgin Money 
needed to do anything further. Overall, they thought that Virgin Money had acted fairly in 
restricting Ms Ls access to her account and asking Mr L to obtain power of attorney for 
financial matters to gain access to Ms Ls accounts. Our investigator thought that Virgin 
Moneys offer of £200 was fair compensation for the errors made on opening Ms Ls account 
and the failure to respond to update requests. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators view. In response he said:
Ms L hasnt been compensated for the loss of investment returns. 
Ms L hasnt been compensated for the length of time Virgin Money took investigating 
the complaint. 
Mr L had to contact Virgin Money on several occasions for an update on the 
complaint.
They havent been compensated for the amount of time Mr L, his wife Mrs L and 
Ms L spent travelling to Virgin Money branches  which they visited on at least two 
occasions. 
Mr L and Mrs L havent been compensated for the distress they suffered because of 
Virgin Moneys errors. 
As Mr L, on behalf of Ms L, didnt accept our investigators view its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction:
Ive firstly considered Virgin Moneys actions in restricting access to Ms Ls account. Virgin 
Money restricted access to Ms Ls account after Mr L transferred £4,600 into the account  
and attempted to move out £4,200 soon after into cryptocurrency. Ive considered if this is 
fair, and I appreciate this will disappoint Ms L but I think it is, and Ill explain why below. 
Virgin Money has extensive legal and regulatory requirements they must meet. These are 
listed in Virgin Moneys terms and conditions which Ms L agreed to when opening her 
account. Virgin Money have accepted that they advised Ms L incorrectly that Mr L could be 
granted third party authority on her account based on the power of attorney hed been 
granted, as this only covered personal care and not financial matters. However, it doesnt 
follow that the bank should now allow Mr L access. 
I appreciate that Ms L has been caused inconvenience by the banks actions however Im 
satisfied that the bank had legitimate concerns which havent been alleviated. 
Ms Ls account remains restricted, and the funds withheld. Virgin Money have explained to 
Mr L that for him to gain access and operate Ms Ls account hell need a power of attorney 
which specifically grants him control of Ms Ls financial affairs. Ive considered Virgin 
Moneys position and Im satisfied that its fair for the bank to restrict access until the 
requested documents are provided. 
Compensation:
Mr Ls argued that Ms L should be compensated for the loss of gains in the investment  if 
the investment had successfully been transferred and converted into cryptocurrency. Im 
afraid I cant agree with Mr L here, as Im satisfied the bank has acted fairly in restricting access to Ms Ls account and the movement of her funds. It follows because I think this I 
wont be asking Virgin Money to compensate Ms L for any loss of opportunity. 
However, I do accept that Virgin Money handled the opening of Ms Ls account poorly  and 
theyve contributed to the confusion and inconvenience Ms Ls experienced. Virgin Money 
accept that they shouldnt have informed Mr L he could have the authority to transact on the 
account  and they didnt provide Ms L with good customer service. Including advising her to 
attend a branch when she wasnt able to obtain her funds. 
Mr Ls raised a number of further points about the impact on him and his wife. I understand 
this will disappoint him but, this isnt something Im able to consider. Ms L is Virgin Moneys 
consumer  not Mr L. Therefore, under our powers Im only able to consider the impact of 
Virgin Moneys actions on Ms L. 
Putting things right
Overall, based on the inconvenience caused to Ms L by Virgin Money initially allowing Mr L 
access, then withdrawing it, and providing incorrect advice I think £200 is fair compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Ms Ls complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to:
Pay Ms L £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused to her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman