DRN-2773258
The Complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the quality of a car supplied to her by Close Brothers Limited through 
a conditional sale agreement. She wants to reject the car.
What happened
Mrs M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers in April 2019. The car 
she got through the agreement was around nine years old and had covered just under 
100,000 miles. The cash price of the car was £5,490. The agreement with Close Brothers 
was for this amount, repayable over 48 months at £152.21 each month.
 
Mrs M told us that in March 2020 she heard an unusual noise from the engine. A local 
garage told her the noise was due to a fault with the timing chain and estimated the cost to 
repair this at anywhere between £3,000 to £8,000. Mrs M wasnt happy with this and raised 
the issue with Close Brothers.
 
It asked Mrs M to provide evidence the fault with the car was present at the point of sale. 
She sent Close Brothers information from the garage whod diagnosed the issue and also 
from a garage that had serviced the car four months before the problem arose. They both 
said they believed the problem with the timing chain would have started to develop before 
the car reached 100,000 miles. But Close Brothers didnt uphold the complaint. It said there 
was no evidence to show the car was faulty at the time it was sold.
 
Mrs M wasnt happy with this and brought the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. Briefly, our investigator thought the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. But she did feel Close Brothers had caused Mrs M a great deal of 
frustration through a lack of contact. Our investigator thought it should pay her £200 for this.
 
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view. She detailed numerous points about why she 
didnt agree with it. So, as the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. But first Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: was the car Close Brothers supplied to Mrs M of satisfactory quality 
at the point of sale?
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive havent. As 
above, Ive considered all the available evidence. This includes information supplied by 
Close Brothers and also the very detailed submissions from Mrs M, including the information 
about her personal circumstances. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to reach what I think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
I would add here that I can see how strongly Mrs M feels about this issue. I really do 
appreciate the worry this has caused her and the wider problems her and her family have 
had and continue to have. But in reaching my decision in this case, I have to put aside my 
natural feelings of empathy and look at this case impartially and fairly based on the 
evidence. Thats what Ive done here.
 
Mrs M got the car using a conditional sale agreement in April 2019. As the finance provider, 
Close Brothers is responsible for the quality of the car it provided. Here, the relevant 
legislation dealing with the quality of goods is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015). In 
summary, this sets out that the car provided under the agreement should be of satisfactory 
quality. When reaching my decision, Im required to take the law into account. Im also 
required to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
 
When deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, there are a number of factors to think 
about. These include, but arent limited to, things such as the age of the car, mileage and 
durability. If the car was new it would be reasonable to expect it to be fault free, not to have 
even minor defects and be in a durable condition. But Mrs Ms car wasnt new. It was almost 
nine years old at the point of sale - and it had covered nearly 100,000-miles. So I would 
expect there to be some wear and tear.
 
Generally, the CRA 2015 provides where a problem occurs, its for Mrs M to show the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. If the problem happens within six months 
of being supplied, theres a presumption that this was present at that time unless Close 
Brothers can provide evidence that it wasnt.  But thats not the case here. This issue arose 
11 months after Mrs M got it. So the onus is on her to provide evidence the car wasnt 
satisfactory when supplied.
 
Theres no dispute that theres a problem with the timing chain. But what I need to decide is 
whether this makes the car of unsatisfactory quality. The garage that serviced the car stated 
the issue would have started to develop before the vehicle reached 100,000 miles  that is, 
before Mrs M got it. The garage that diagnosed the issue in March 2020 made similar 
comments and said these were based on its understanding of the industry wide knowledge 
of this type of engine. But Im not satisfied this means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when Mrs M got it.
 
When thinking about quality, Im looking at whether the car as a whole was satisfactory  not 
each individual component. Many parts of a car, such as tyres and brakes for example, will 
need replacing over time after prolonged use. Such items will begin to wear, albeit slowly, 
with each mile travelled and will need to be replaced at some stage. If something is reaching 
the end of its useful life, it doesnt automatically mean its of unsatisfactory quality. Im 
satisfied the same applies to the timing chain here.
 
Indeed, Mrs M has stated in her submissions that her research revealed that the timing chain 
will suffer wear and tear with age and constant use, and its recommended to replace it every 
40,000 to 100,000 miles.
 
Mrs M has also said that her car should be judged in accordance with the standard and 
performance thats reasonable to expect in a similar car of that age, mileage and model. As 
above, Mrs Ms own research indicates that 100,000 miles falls within the typical lifespan of 
a timing chain for cars of a similar age, mileage and model. So Im not satisfied its been 
shown that the timing chain on this individual car wasnt durable.
 I would also repeat that when Mrs M got the car, it was almost nine years old and had 
covered nearly 100,000 miles. She was then able to travel over 16,000 miles in just under 11 
months without reporting any issues. Thats a significant amount of mileage in a relatively 
short space of time. So, taking all the above into consideration, Im not satisfied the car 
supplied to Mrs M by Close Brothers wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
I can see Mrs M feels the car was wrongly described in the original advert she saw as it said 
the car was in great condition and drive superb (sic). She says these statements 
influenced her to make a decision to buy the car. But the advert wasnt placed by Close 
Brothers, it was placed by a car dealership.
 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that in some circumstances, Close 
Brothers can be held liable for what the dealership told Mrs M during antecedent 
negotiations  that is, what she was told before taking out the agreement. Here, that means 
Close Brothers could be held liable if there was a statement of fact given to Mrs M which 
wasnt true, and which resulted in her entering into the agreement.
 
But Im satisfied the statements about the condition of the car and how it drove are opinions, 
not facts, although they may well have attracted Mrs Ms interest to go and look at the car in 
the first place. So Im satisfied Close Brothers isnt liable for anything here.
 
Ill now turn to Mrs Ms point that if the timing chain issue was a result of normal wear and 
tear, then her agreement with Close Brothers states that she is responsible for all loss or 
damage to the vehicle except for any due to fair wear and tear. I can see from the 
agreement that this is stated under the Repair and Maintenance section. Mrs Ms argument 
is this section means that Close Brothers should be responsible for loss or damage due to 
fair wear and tear. I dont agree. 
The above clause needs to be read together with the Termination section of the 
agreement. This sets out that if the agreement with Close Brothers is terminated early, then 
Mrs M is liable to pay for any damages relating to her obligation to maintain the car in good 
and reasonable repair and condition  which is what is referred to in the Repair and 
Maintenance section. 
Ill explain what this means in practice. If the agreement is ended early by either party, the 
car is returned to Close Brothers. When this happens, the car is inspected and assessed for 
damage. Typically, Close Brothers will assess any damage in line with the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement. It would be able to charge Mrs M for any damage 
identified by the inspection thats more than fair wear and tear.
 
So, the terms Mrs M refers to doesnt mean Close Brothers has to put right any loss or 
damage due to fair wear and tear while she still has the car. If it did, then Close Brothers 
would be responsible for replacing everyday items such as tyres, bulbs and wiper blades for 
example. Thats clearly not the case.
 
At this point I would note that I can see Mrs M has given Close Brothers notice that she 
wants to terminate the agreement early. That is a separate issue to the complaint Im dealing 
with here. It also supersedes her request for Close Brothers to consider her financial 
difficulties. If Mrs M is unhappy with either of these issues, she will need to raise this as a 
new complaint with Close Brothers. 
For completeness, I can see that in her original complaint to us, Mrs M was unhappy with the 
provision of documents by Close Bothers, including both the agreement and the direct debit 
mandate. But I can also see Mrs M now accepts this issue has since been resolved, so I 
wont comment any further on it.
 Finally, our investigator identified various occasions where Close Brothers didnt contact 
Mrs M when requested or when she expected it to. I can see this added to the distress and 
frustration she was already experiencing due to the problems with the car and her wider 
personal circumstances. Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to 
pay Mrs M £200 for this.
Putting things right
In summary, taking all the above into consideration, Im not satisfied the car Close Brothers 
supplied to Mrs M wasnt of satisfactory quality, so Im not asking it to do anything further in 
respect of this. But Close Brothers should pay Mrs M £200 for the contact problems outlined 
above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers Limited should pay Mrs M £200.
 
This final decision ends the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. This 
means that we are unable to consider the complaint further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman