DRN-3869576
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) handled a disputed transaction. 
He would like a refund of the course he paid for and an additional £270 compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that Lloyds initiated Mr Ss chargeback request for a refund of 
money paid for a course which Mr S only partially completed. The course comprised 
of a practical test which Mr S passed, use of a vehicle which Mr S had, and a further 
practical test which Mr S couldnt take as he didnt have the certificate from the first 
test with him. Whilst the chargeback scheme is a voluntary one  we do expect 
businesses to use it  where there is a reasonable prospect of success. I think Lloyds 
correctly initiated the chargeback process
Lloyds then didnt pursue the chargeback when the merchant successfully defended 
the claim explaining that it was Mr S responsibility to take the relevant 
documentation to the second test with him. As he didnt he couldnt sit the test.  It  
referred Lloyds to important notes about your certificate which confirmed this. I have 
seen this document and it does confirm that the pass certificate and driving licence 
must be taken for the second test. I appreciate Mr S says the merchant booked the 
test and so should have brought the paperwork, but the evidence provided by the 
merchant shows this was Mr S responsibly. I think the merchant provided a strong 
defence so I dont think it was unreasonable of Lloyds not to pursue the chargeback 
as it was unlikely to be successful. On that basis I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to 
refund the cost of the course Mr S paid for.
In terms of poor customer service Mr S seems to accept the compensation of £480  
paid to date by Lloyds in respect of this is appropriate. He would like however a 
further £270 as I understand it to compensate him for having to go through our 
service. Its unfortunate but there is some inconvenience to both parties when 
complaints are made but we dont make compensatory awards simply because 
consumers have come to our service. I appreciate Lloyds gave Mr S incorrect 
information and  he had to make multiple calls and calls werent returned. I think 
some compensation was appropriate but I agree with our investigator that the £480 
Lloyds has paid is likely to be more than we would have awarded so I dont feel I 
have any grounds to ask Lloyds to pay additional compensation
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman