DRN-3317988
The complaint
Miss E complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt treat her fairly when it 
closed her current account.
What happened
Miss E says Halifax treated her unfairly because it decided to close her account. She says 
shed held an account with the bank for nine years and it didnt tell her why it wanted to close 
her account. Miss E says she had no access to her account during the notice period and 
because of this, some of her payments and direct debits failed. Miss E says Halifax should 
compensate her for the distress it caused.
Halifax rejected this complaint. It said the terms and conditions of Miss Es account permitted 
it to give her two months notice before closing the account, and that this was sufficient time 
for her to make alternative banking arrangements.
The bank explained that throughout the notice period, Miss E wouldve been able to access 
her account whenever she needed to through her local branch. And it said all the problems 
she experienced with payments and direct debits were simply because shed withdrawn the 
credit balance from her account and no longer had sufficient funds in the account to facilitate 
these payments.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
was satisfied the bank had acted in accordance with the account terms and conditions and 
given Miss E the requisite two months notice of the accounts closure. She said shed 
examined Miss Es bank statements and was satisfied that the lack of available funds was 
the cause of direct debits not being honoured.
Miss E disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Miss E that I think the investigator has reached the right 
conclusion here. And I think shes set out the position clearly so theres very little I can 
usefully add to what shes already said.
A bank can decide who it wishes to do business with, and this is a commercial judgement on 
its part  so its not something that this service usually gets involved with. But I have looked 
at the way in which Halifax conducted itself when it closed Miss Es account. And having 
done so, Ive reached the conclusion that Halifax didnt do anything wrong.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions and noted that the bank gave Miss E 
sufficient notice of its intention to close her account. The terms and conditions required 
Halifax to give Miss E two months notice, and it did this in its telephone conversation with 
her.
Ive also examined Miss Es bank statements and agree with both the bank and our 
investigator. I can see that Miss Es salary was credited to her account on 26 August 2021, 
and it was then withdrawn. This left the account balance at its overdraft limit and further debit 
transactions couldnt be completed.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong and I think it gave 
Miss E enough time to make alternative banking arrangements.
So, for the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman