DRN-3626574
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy because he says that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited trading as AXA Health 
mis-sold him a private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr W took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA. At that time 
Mr W was recovering from having been admitted to hospital with Covid-19. He says he was 
vulnerable following this experience and took out the policy for peace of mind and access to 
private treatment, following his recent hospitalisation.
Mr W tried to claim on the policy for treatment for whats commonly referred to as long 
Covid. He also tried to claim for treatment for some serious injuries he sustained after an 
accident. In summary, he says the policy was no use to him because AXA always found a 
reason to decline his claims. And, he says this is supported by reviews by other 
policyholders. So, he says hes been mis-sold the policy. 
In their final response letter AXA said Mr W hadnt been able to claim for long Covid because 
it was a pre-existing condition. And, they said there was no cover for the treatment Mr W 
wanted for his injuries. In summary, they said the policy hadnt been mis-sold as Mr W had 
been given information about what the policy did and didnt cover when the policy was sold 
to him. Unhappy, Mr W complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He 
didnt think the policy had been mis-sold and that Mr W had been given the relevant 
information about the policy exclusions when he took it out. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He says he was 
persuaded to buy a policy he couldnt afford and that didnt offer a reasonable level of 
healthcare cover. He felt he was manipulated, and that AXA was treating him, and other 
customers unfairly. Mr W also mentioned that he was promised phone calls from a more 
senior person at AXA on three occasions but never received a call. He says that the only 
time someone called him was when he cancelled the direct debit.  So, I need to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that the policy was mis-sold to him. AXA didnt advise Mr W 
to take out the policy. So, the relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA needed to 
provide him with enough information to decide if the policy was right for him. That includes 
giving him information that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
I dont think he was persuaded to take out the policy or manipulated by AXA. I 
appreciate that Mr W was recovering from Covid-19 and had been very unwell. But I 
think he chose to take out the policy and Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that 
AXA manipulated Mr W or exploited his vulnerability. 
Mr W submitted an online enquiry about private medical insurance and indicated in 
the sales call that he was shopping around. When AXA called to follow up, he said 
he was planning to review the documents in the next few days and hed let them 
know if there was anything amiss. Mr W then contacted AXA to confirm he wanted to 
go ahead with the policy. So, I think Mr W was engaged with the sales process and 
discussed the policy over a number of calls with the sales advisor. 
Im satisfied that Mr W was given clear, fair and non-misleading information about the 
policy. That included clear information about the extent of cover for pre-existing 
medical conditions. This information was explained to Mr W in a phone call and in 
the policy documentation. So, I think Mr W had enough information to decide if the 
policy was right for him.
Mr W had a period of 14 days to review the policy documentation and cancel the 
policy. This is known as a cooling off period. So, I think Mr W had the chance to 
check the policy and cancel it if it didnt meet his needs. 
Its unfortunate that the policy didnt cover the circumstances of Mr Ws claims for 
long Covid and an accident. But private medical insurance isnt designed to cover 
every eventuality. Like any insurance policy there are limitations and exclusions 
which apply. So, although Mr W wasnt able to benefit from his policy in the way he 
expected, it doesnt mean the policy was worthless. 
Mr W has provided evidence of other consumers expressing dissatisfaction with 
AXA. But my role is to consider the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. Having done 
so I dont think AXA has treated him unfairly.
Ive taken into account that Mr W says he didnt receive call backs from AXA that he 
was promised. But, even if I accepted that was the case, Im not persuaded that it is 
fair and reasonable for AXA to refund Mr Ws premiums. Mr W had the benefit of 
cover during the period of time the policy was in force. 
Mr W says he only received a call from AXA when he cancelled the direct debit. I can 
understand why this was frustrating if hed not received other call backs as 
promised. But the policy terms say the policyholder should call AXA to cancel the 
policy. Based on what Mr W said he cancelled the direct debit. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for AXA to contact him to query why the payment hadnt been 
made.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman