DRN-3122146
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt provided them with a refund of 
premiums for a single trip travel insurance policy they held.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 29 September 2021  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think Great Lakes had acted reasonably 
and fairly in how it deal with Mrs and Mr Hs claim. And I outlined the reasons why I was 
minded to uphold their complaint. I said:
What happened
Mrs and Mr H took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 9 December 2019 for a holiday 
which was due to take place in June 2020. The cost of their policy was £505.72, which 
included cover for some medical conditions they declared. The cost also included a discount 
of £32.61, which Mrs and Mr H received at the point that they purchased their policy. 
On 4 May 2020 Mrs and Mr H called Great Lakes to cancel their policy. Great Lakes offered 
Mrs and Mr H a voucher for £123.43 which it said represented a pro-rata refund of the 
premiums. The voucher was valid for 36 months. Mrs and Mr H were unhappy because they 
wanted a full refund, so they rejected Great Lakes voucher offer and complained to our 
service. 
When our investigator assessed this complaint, they set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 9 
December 2019 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
But they thought Great Lakes had made a fair offer in all the circumstances and that the offer 
of a voucher was also fair and reasonable. So, they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. But Mrs and Mr H disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint and 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as a bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions. 
Ive considered everything Mrs and Mr H and Great Lakes have said about this complaint. 
And Ill explain why Im departing from the findings our investigator reached in their view: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
Im satisfied Mrs and Mr H were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to 
their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance 
policies.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic
Ive considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the 
circumstances of this case I think the insurers offer to calculate Mrs and Mr Hs 
refund from 4 May 2020 until the date their trip was due to end is fair and reasonable 
on the facts of this case  even though they hadnt cancelled their holiday at the point 
that they contacted Great Lakes to cancel their policy.
I think a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case because Great Lakes credit voucher is valid for 36 months. This is a 
reasonable period within which Mrs and Mr H can use their voucher towards future 
travel insurance policies they may wish to take out. 
Mrs and Mr H have said they arent intending to travel in the future due to their age, 
health and the pandemic. But thats their choice  I havent seen any deterioration in 
health conditions that might preclude travel and I can see that Mrs and Mr H were 
prepared to travel last June. Based on the available evidence, there arent any 
exceptional circumstances that persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata 
monetary refund. And, in offering a credit voucher when it wasnt obliged to, Great 
Lakes has departed from industry rules and the terms of its policy to the benefit of 
Mrs and Mr H because of the unanticipated and unforeseen events surrounding the 
global Covid-19 pandemic. I therefore think its offer of a refund by way of voucher is 
fair and reasonable Ive carefully looked at whether the amount refunded by Great Lakes to Mrs and Mr H 
was fair and reasonable. In this case Mrs and Mr H had the benefit of a discount on 
their policy at the point of sale of £32.61. When Great Lakes calculated the voucher 
refund, this was based on it removing the discount at the end of the calculation. I say 
this because its starting point was to add the discount onto the premium price Mrs 
and Mr H paid then divide that by the 207 days of cover theyd purchased. It then 
multiplied that sum by the 60 days they werent on risk and subtracted the discount 
theyd received. This gave a final refund figure of just over £123.43.
I dont think the approach that Great Lakes adopted in calculating Mrs and Mr Hs 
refund is fair and reasonable. Instead, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint 
is for Great Lakes to calculate Mrs and Mr Hs refund by dividing the price they 
actually paid for their policy by the total cover length (207 days). It should then 
multiply that value by the days Mrs and Mr H werent on risk (60 days), which I 
understand would give a refund of £146.59. 
As Mrs and Mr H rejected Great Lakes previous voucher offer, my provisional 
decision is that it should send them a voucher in the sum of £146.59 to resolve this 
complaint.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Great Lakes responded confirming it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add. 
When Mrs and Mr H responded, they disputed the date of cancellation for their holiday. They 
said theyd cancelled their holiday on 3 March 2020  over two months prior to the date they 
cancelled their policy with Great Lakes. They also that they werent intending to travel in the 
future due to issues with their health, which Great Lakes was already aware of as these 
conditions had been declared at the point their policy was purchased. And they said they 
needed a cash settlement not a voucher in view of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr H have stated they cancelled their holiday over two months before contacting 
Great Lakes to cancel their policy. And theyve now provided evidence showing that their 
holiday was cancelled on 3 March 2020. 
When considering single trip policy refund complaints, our service would expect Great Lakes 
to use the date a holiday was cancelled as the date of cancellation for a policy. So, we think 
any pro-rata refund should be calculated from the holiday cancellation date.
Ive taken into account that Great Lakes was bearing a risk of the holiday being cancelled up 
until 3 March. But it was no longer carrying that risk once the holiday was cancelled. So, in 
the overall circumstances, I think Great Lakes should calculate Mrs and Mr Hs refund from 3 
March 2020. This pro-rata refund would then take into account the 122 days of unused cover 
from the date of the holiday cancellation to the date the holiday was due to end, which would 
be fair and reasonable. Mrs and Mr H say they arent able to use the voucher theyve been offered. Theyve told our 
service theres been a deterioration in health, which means that travel will be difficult for 
them. But I havent seen any evidence showing theres been a decline in health either to the 
effect that Mrs and Mr H have been medically advised not to travel or such that it would 
mean Great Lakes would decline to insure them. And I must bear in mind that Mrs and Mr H 
were prepared to travel in June 2020 with the health conditions they declared to Great 
Lakes.
I can appreciate why Mrs and Mr H may be disappointed with the offer of a voucher. But, in 
the overall circumstances, I remain persuaded that there arent any exceptional 
circumstances that would mean Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund instead 
of a voucher here. And I remain satisfied that Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably in 
offering a voucher when it wasnt obliged to.
Putting things right
 In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that I think the fairest way to 
resolve matters is for Great Lakes to calculate Mrs and Mr Hs refund by dividing the price 
they actually paid for their policy by the total cover length (207 days). It should multiply that 
value by the days Mrs and Mr H werent on risk (122 days), which I understand would give a 
refund of £298.06. This should be sent to Mrs and Mr H by way of a credit voucher.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Great Lakes Insurance SE should 
pay Mrs and Mr H £298.06 by voucher reimbursement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman