DRN-3515828
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company declined a 
claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C was due to go on holiday in early June 2020 to a country Ill refer to as S. The holiday 
was booked by Mr Cs brother on behalf of the whole family. 
On 11 March 2020 Covid-19 was declared to be a global pandemic and on 17 March 2020 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad. That advice remained in place until Mr Cs planned departure date. 
Mr Cs flight was cancelled, and they were unable to travel to their accommodation due to 
FCDO advice. Mr Cs brother claimed on his own travel insurance policy but the insurer 
would only cover his share of the costs. So, Mr C claimed for his share of the costs on his 
travel insurance policy. 
The claim was declined by Chaucer on the basis that there was no cover under the policy. 
Mr C was unhappy with this, but Chaucer maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Unhappy, Mr C referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She thought it 
wasnt clear that the policy didnt cover cancellation if the FCDO advised against all, or all 
but essential travel. 
Chaucer didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary they 
said there was no cover under the policy for cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. 
They said the policy set out the insured perils and to retrospectively apply cover for changes 
in FCDO advice made a mockery of the underwriting process. Chaucer also thought it was 
most likely that Mr C would have purchased the policy, even if hed been aware that there 
was no cover due to changes in FCDO advice. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says:
 What is not insured
Travelling to a country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the FCO 
have advised against all (but essential) travel. 
Page 20 of the policy sets out the circumstances under which Chaucer provides cover for
cancellation or curtailment. These are:
 The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) You
b) any person who you are travelling with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
 You or any person who you are travelling with being quarantined on the orders 
of a treating doctor, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service 
attendance.
 Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling with (which qualifies 
for payment under current UK redundancy payment legislation, and at the time 
of booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made 
redundant).
 You or any person who you are travelling with, are a member of the Armed 
Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or 
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave 
cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the 
cancellation or curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the 
time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip, 
which occurred or became apparent within 5 days prior to the commencement 
of your trip or during the course of your trip.
 The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your 
home due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, 
explosion, storm, flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, 
malicious people or theft.
In the general exclusions, on page 11, it says there is no cover for:
Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation highlighted by the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office where you have travelled to a specific country or 
to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office have advised against all (but essential) travel.
Was it unreasonable for Chaucer to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for Chaucer to treat the claim as covered under the 
cancellation/curtailment section of the policy because: 
Mr C cancelled his trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to 
the destination he was due to travel to. Thats not something that is covered under 
the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. 
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr C had travelled abroad hed 
have not followed FCDO advice. So, he wouldnt have been covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in 
FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made 
sufficiently clear to Mr C.   
Mr C would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to his attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear. Mr C 
would have needed to cross refer between the different sections of cover to work out 
that he wasnt covered for cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. I dont think 
this would have been clear even if hed read the terms and conditions in full.  
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr C and 
Chaucer. I think its unlikely that Mr C would have purchased the policy if he had 
realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed 
after hed bought the policy. When Mr C purchased the policy, in February 2020, 
policies which offered cover in such circumstances were widely available for a similar 
price. And I remain persuaded that if Mr C had realised he wouldnt be covered for 
cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice, its likely hed have taken out cover 
elsewhere.
Ive considered what Chaucer has said about the IPID and that its not possible to list 
everything thats insured or not insured. But the IPID didnt make it clear or prominent 
that cancellation claims due to a change in FCDO advice werent covered. The IPID 
only refers to the general exclusion which says that policy holders wont be covered if 
they travel against FCDO advice. And, in any event, Im also satisfied that this also 
wasnt clear from the policy terms and conditions for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Ive also taken into account what Chaucer has said about how the policy was priced. 
However, Ive considered the individual circumstances of this complaint and the 
particular terms and conditions of this policy. Ive also taken into account the relevant 
law and industry guidelines. Having done so Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable 
to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Putting things right
Im directing Chaucer to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the 
policy. Chaucer should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity 
Company and directing them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman