DRN-4332831
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr M complaint that Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) unfairly 
reversed a decision to cover treatment for Mr M on their private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the events leading up to this complaint, so Ill only set out what 
happened very briefly. 
Mrs B and Mr M had a private medical insurance policy underwritten by WPA. They 
complained that in July 2022 WPA approved a doctors visit and a scan for Mr M, but 
reversed its approval after that had taken place leaving them liable for the costs. They also 
said the overriding reason for the reversal was because WPA linked the claim to previous 
abdominal problems which were unrelated.  
WPA said it had only approved a consultation for Mr M in July 2022, and neither the blood 
tests or scan that he underwent afterwards had been authorised. It explained the policy was 
underwritten on a moratorium basis, and said Mr Ms symptoms had occurred within time 
periods not covered by the policy. 
When Mrs B and Mr M approached this service they told us theyd experienced a number of 
different issues with WPA, and thought its blanket approach appeared to be just rejecting 
claims and letting customers dispute them. 
One of our investigators looked at what happened but did not think the complaint should be 
upheld. They said WPA had declined the claim fairly given the timing of Mr Ms symptoms 
and the terms and conditions of the policy. They also said WPA had sent a letter in 
September 2021 which explained that no further benefits would be paid. And that it hadnt 
authorise the blood tests or scans Mr M went on to have. 
Mrs B and Mr M disagreed with our investigators opinion and said they werent told that no 
further benefits would be covered. They also said that using abdominal pain as a way of 
avoiding paying was so vague, and that regardless of anything else WPA had done it had 
given them an authorisation code for the scan.
So as no agreement was reached this complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Y I thank Mrs B and Mr M for taking the time to set out their position. Before I set out my 
findings I will highlight that this decision will not address every point or argument made. It will 
focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint, and for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain I will not be upholding it.
The scan authorisation
Mrs B and Mr M say that WPA approved a doctors visit and a scan when they spoke to it in 
July 2022. During the authorisation call WPA explained it would agree to cover a 
consultation, and it said it would need clinic letters from Mr Ms previous consultation as well 
as his current one too. But there was no mention of WPA approving a scan or blood tests, so 
I cannot agree that these were authorised as claimed. 
Mrs B and Mr M also say WPA sent them an authorisation code for the scan following that 
call. But whilst WPA explained it would send Mrs B and Mr M a reference number they could 
use when sending their invoice over, it did not refer to this number being in relation to either 
a scan or blood tests and so again, I cannot fairly agree that these were authorised. 
Having said that, I understand that WPA did go on to pay for the above blood tests in error 
and confirmed it would not be seeking to recoup those costs given it was its mistake. And in 
all the circumstances I think that was fair.
The claim decline
WPA has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, and not reject them 
unreasonably. 
Mrs B and Mr Ms policy started on 28 February 2021. It was underwritten on a moratorium 
basis which the policy terms and conditions explained as: 
7.4.2 Moratorium Underwriting (sometimes referred to as Mori)
 If you have moratorium underwriting you will not be eligible to claim for at least two years, 
for any condition(s) which you had during the five years before your policy starts or which 
occurred in the first 14 days after you joined us. We call these pre-existing conditions. 
If you do not have any symptoms, treatment, medication or advice for pre-existing conditions 
for two continuous years after the policy starts, benefit will then be available. We refer to this 
as a two year clear period. 
The policy terms and conditions also listed what wouldnt be covered under the policy, and 
that included:
Pre-existing conditions  subject to the underwriting of your policy.
Any disease, illness or injury for which:
You have received medication, advice or treatment; or
You have experienced symptoms, whether the condition has been diagnosed 
or not before the start of your cover; or
Any symptom or condition, whether diagnosed or not, which occurs in the first 
14 days of cover unless agreed and accepted by us in writing in advance. 
When Mr M presented with a claim for abdominal pain in April 2021 WPA authorised initial 
tests and investigations for him. However, when a clinic letter that followed in May 2021 said 
Mr M had a history of abdominal pain WPA asked for further information. That was by way of 
a GP referral letter it hadnt yet received, and given the timescales that applied to the 
moratorium underwriting here I dont think that request was unreasonable. 
WPA received the requested GP referral letter in June 2021. It was dated April 2021 and 
said Mr M had been experiencing upper abdominal problems for about a year. It also said 
that following an ultrasound Mr M had been told by a gastroenterologist that he had chronic gastritis and gallstones. Subsequently, WPA declined to provide any further benefit and 
given the medical evidence indicated the moratorium underwriting hadnt been satisfied I 
dont think that decline was unreasonable either.
WPA wrote to Mr M to in September 2021 to explain:
no further benefit can be provided as your GP referral letter dated 8 April 2021, confirmed 
that your symptoms had existed for a year. As you joined on a moratorium basis we are 
unable to provide benefit for symptoms experienced within 5 years prior to your underwriting 
date which is 28 February 2021..
Mrs B and Mr M say they did not get that letter and would not have remained paying 
customers for almost a year following it if they had. Theres no additional evidence to 
corroborate the letter not being delivered. But even if I were to find that Mrs B and Mr M did 
not receive it, they would still have had the benefit of the policy in the time that followed 
September 2021. I say that because the policy provided a variety of benefits that, subject to 
the relevant terms and conditions, Mrs B and Mr M would have remained eligible to claim for. 
And so it would not be fair of me to conclude that the policy was likely to have been 
cancelled on receipt of the September 2021 letter alone.
Im aware that when Mr M raised a claim for gallstones in 2022 Mrs B and Mr M explained 
the symptom history in the referral letter had been incorrect. A revised referral letter dated 26 
March 2021 was provided to WPA as a result. But it said Mr Ms symptoms had only been 
present for two weeks, therefore indicating a commencement date of 12 March 2021 which 
was within the first 14 days of Mr M joining WPA. 
So, even taking that amended symptom start date into account I dont think it was 
unreasonable of WPA to maintain its decline, because that date didnt satisfy the relevant 
deferment period.
I realise Mrs B and Mr M may be further disappointed by this decision, but I cant agree that 
WPA declined this claim based on vague abdominal symptoms. I think it declined this claim 
both fairly and reasonably based on the medical evidence made available to it and the terms 
and conditions of the policy. So, on this occasion I will not be interfering with WPAs position.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman