DRN-3869893
The complaint
Mr D complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) increased the interest rate on his buy 
to let mortgages. 
What happened
Mr D has three buy to let mortgages with CBS. The mortgages are on CBSs Flexx product  
which is a flexible managed variable rate lower than CBSs standard variable rate and with 
no early repayment charge (ERC). As the three mortgages were taken out at slightly 
different times, they are on different versions of the Flexx product. The first mortgage was 
taken out in 2016 with a starting rate of 3.35%, the second in June 2017 with a starting rate 
of 2.34% and the third in August 2017 with a starting rate of 3.04%. 
In March 2020, when the Bank of England reduced base rate from 0.75% to 0.1%, CBS 
decided not to reduce the Flexx interest rate.. But since base rate has increased in 2022, 
CBS has increased the Flexx interest rate. By May 2022, the three mortgages were on rates 
of 3.5%, 2.49% and 3.19%.
Mr D complained. He didnt think it was fair that the rate didnt go down when base rate went 
down, but went up when base rate went up. He said that when he took the mortgage out, he 
understood he was taking a variable rate, but thought it would effectively act as a discount 
rate  as the difference between the Flexx rate and base rate has increased, the discount 
has been eroded. As the Flexx rate had followed base rate in the past, he had a reasonable 
expectation it would do so again. He feels hes been left with a variable rate which only 
varies upwards, and believes CBS is profiteering at his expense. 
Our investigator didnt think CBS had acted unfairly. It said it had shown it was entitled to 
increase the interest rate and had acted fairly in doing so. Mr D didnt agree, and asked for 
an ombudsman to review his complaint. He was particularly concerned that hed paid 
substantial fees to access a low rate, substantially lower than CBSs SVR, and that now the 
difference between the two rates had been eroded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whether it was fair for CBS to increase the interest rate, the starting point is 
whether it was permitted to do so under the mortgage contract. And then, if it was, I will also 
need to consider whether CBS exercised that power fairly in all the circumstances. 
The mortgage offers say the applicable rate is the Flexx rate, which is 
a variable rate, currently 1.69%, which is managed by Coventry Building Society and 
is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base 
Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. 
Ive quoted one of the mortgage offers; the others contain the same term, though with 
different starting rates. 
In each of the mortgage offers, the product special conditions say (again, with a different 
starting rate in each case)
the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society [CBS], 
at a rate, currently 1.69%, which will be set independently of The Companys 
Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate. 
I think this makes it clear that the Flexx rate is a variable rate and can be changed from time 
to time, and is not linked to the Bank of England base rate. 
Ive also considered the circumstances in which CBS can change the rate. The terms and 
conditions for the 2016 mortgage say 
Unless the offer says otherwise, we can change the applicable Interest Rate for any 
of the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at the time or 
those which are expected to apply in the near future): 
(i) To respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally; 
(ii) To response to changes in the law or decisions of a court or ombudsman; 
(iii) To meet relevant regulatory requirements; 
(iv) To respond to new (or changes to any) statements or codes of practice 
designed to enhance customer protection; 
(v) To respond to changes in the costs or risk incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage; 
(vi) To respond to increased cost or risk incurred as a result of any change of use 
of the Property (for example, if you let the Property, with or without our 
permission); or 
(vii) For any other reasons set out specifically in the Offer. 
Any change that we make to the rate of interest will be proportionate to the 
circumstances give rise to the change. 
The 2017 mortgages have a similar term, though worded slightly differently  the key 
provisions say that CBS can change the interest rate for reasons including
5.1.1 to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) rate
5.1.5 to respond to changes in the costs legitimately incurred by us in conducting our 
mortgage lending activities, including the cost of funding those activities. 
This means that CBS can  but not must  change the interest rate for any of the reasons 
set out. The relevant ones in this case are responding to changes in base rate, and 
responding to changes in CBSs costs of funding its business. 
But where those reasons exist, that does not mean that CBS has to change the rate. Rather, 
where those reasons exist, but only where those reasons exist, it has the power to choose to change the rate by an amount which is proportionate to the relevant reason. 
When base rate fell in 2020, CBS did not reduce the Flexx rates. Contractually, it was not 
obliged to. At that time, in March 2020, it was the start of the coronavirus pandemic. 
Although base rate fell, the overall economic outlook was very uncertain. There was a real 
risk that many customers would take payment deferrals or get into financial difficulties  
reducing CBSs income from its mortgage lending and increasing its costs. CBS took the 
decision at that time to reduce the SVR but not the Flexx rates, on the basis that the SVR 
was higher and that Flexx rates were generally aimed at better off customers  and therefore 
to the extent that, despite increasing costs, it could pass on some reduction to customers, it 
targeted the reduction at customers paying higher interest rates. 
The Flexx rate is not linked to base rate, and while base rate is a factor CBS can take into 
account, it does not have to respond to changes in base rate. And Im satisfied there were 
good reasons why CBS chose not to reduce the Flexx rate even though base rate had fallen 
 and so its decision not to reduce the Flexx rate was a fair one in all the circumstances. 
Mr D is particularly concerned about CBSs decision to reduce the SVR but not the Flexx 
rate. He says this means hes been treated unfavourably and unfairly compared to a 
customer on the SVR. And he says that the product fees he paid to take a product lower 
than SVR were worthless. 
I do understand his point here. I can see why he would feel it to be unfair that other 
customers did get a rate reduction but  as a Flexx customer  he didnt. 
But as Ive said, theres no obligation on CBS to reduce the Flexx rate when base rate 
reduces. To the extent that CBS felt able to reduce its mortgage interest rates overall, its not 
unreasonable that it decided to focus that on customers paying higher rates than on 
customers paying lower rates  its not practical to check the circumstances of every 
customer and make individual rate setting decisions. The mortgage documentation is clear 
that theres no relationship between the Flexx rate and the SVR, and so I dont think Mr D 
can have had a reasonable expectation that the gap between the two would always be 
constant. Its also relevant to note that there was no ERC, and no other barrier to Mr D 
taking a different product  such as a fixed rate  with CBS, or moving his mortgages 
elsewhere, if he was unhappy that his rate hadnt changed in 2020. Overall, I dont think 
CBS acted unfairly in leaving the Flexx rate unchanged at this time.
That brings me on to the increases in 2022. Ive set out the terms and conditions above. 
They say that CBS can increase the rate to respond to changes in base rate. And it can 
increase the rate to reflect increased costs. 
In fact, CBS has not passed on the base rate increases in full, as can be seen from the 
following table: 
Month Base rate change Flexx rate change
December 2021 0.15% No change
February 2022 0.25% 0.15%
March 2022 0.25% 0.15%
May 2022 0.25% 0.15%June 2022 0.25% 0.15%
August 2022 0.5% 0.25%
CBS has explained that it looked at its anticipated costs and income, across its customer 
base. During this time, there were increases in the costs of funding its mortgage business. 
And, as rates increased, customers began to shop around more. That increased customer 
volatility meant that it had to hold more capital. It also had to pay more interest to savings 
customers to retain their business  with retail deposits held also helping to fund the 
mortgage side of the business. 
As a result of those factors, it needed to increase the income from its mortgage business to 
reflect its increased costs and increased capital requirements. CBS decided to spread the 
impact of the need to increase rates across its mortgage book. But it didnt pass on the 
increase in base rate in full, and it chose to apply higher increases to rates which were 
already lower. 
So in the period up to September 2022, while base rate increased by 1.65%, the Flexx rate 
increased by only 0.85%. And CBS increased its standard variable rate by even less  on 
the basis that customers who were already paying a higher rate had less capacity to absorb 
increases than customers on the lower Flexx rate. 
Ive reviewed the evidence CBS has provided. Im satisfied its shown that its costs 
increased at this time, and that it was not profiteering. The increases to the Flexx rate were 
permitted by the terms and conditions, because base rate was increasing and so were 
CBSs costs. 
Ive then gone on to think about whether, notwithstanding the contractual power, increasing 
the interest rate Mr D was being asked to pay was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
CBS has shown that it only increased its mortgage rates overall to the extent necessary, and 
that it prioritised protecting customers already paying higher rates from the full impact of the 
increases. Ive said above in the context of the 2020 decision that theres no linkage 
between the Flexx rate and the SVR, and no reasonable expectation that the gap between 
them would always remain the same. The same is true of the increases in 2022.
I must also bear in mind that this is a flexible mortgage product. None of Mr Ds mortgages 
have early repayment charges. If Mr D was unhappy with any of the individual rate increases 
 or their cumulative effect  there was nothing to stop him either taking a replacement rate 
(such as a fixed rate) with CBS, or moving his mortgage to another lender. Mr D says he 
now plans to do so, and there is no barrier in place preventing that. 
Even after the rate increases, however, the Flexx rate is a competitive product in the buy to 
let market. Two of Mr Ds mortgages continued to be on rates lower than the fixed rates CBS 
offered buy to let customers, and the third was on a rate comparable to its fixed rates. And 
while Mr D would, understandably, rather not have to pay the increased rate, Ive not seen 
any evidence that doing so would cause him particular financial hardship. Its also important 
to note that these are not residential mortgages, secured over Mr D's home. They are buy to 
let mortgages, and represent one of the expenses of his property rental business. Its in the 
nature of running a business that operating costs can increase from time to time  and that 
where they do so the increased costs are passed on in the price charged to customers. 
Thats what has happened here. Taking all that into account, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. CBS has shown 
that it had the contractual power to do what it did, and Im also satisfied that its shown that 
doing so was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman