DRN-3315836
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about GE Money Home Lending Limiteds (GE Money) refusal of 
their request for a refund and compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W are represented in their complaint. But for ease of reading I will refer only to 
Mr and Mrs W in this complaint. I do this even if it was their representative who sent us 
submissions on their behalf rather than Mr and Mrs W directly.
In November 2008 Mr and Mrs W entered into an agreement with a supplier I will call A. 
Under the agreement A was to supply them with a roof coating product. The roof coating 
product contract was paid for in part or in total using a finance agreement provided by GE 
Money.
Mr and Mrs W complain that A misrepresented the roof coating product to them. Further they 
complain that A breached its contract with them. They suggest that because of this 
misrepresentation and or the breaches of contract and because of the type of finance they 
used they can look to GE Money to put things right. Specifically, they rely on the rights they 
suggest they have under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
In February 2019 Mr and Mrs W brought their claim under Section 75 to GE Money. In 
response in September 2019 GE Money declined to meet their claim. In brief, it suggested 
that Mr and Mrs W had run out of time to take action against it. This was because, according 
to it, potentially Mr and Mrs W only have a like claim against it, as against A. Since it 
considers that any claim against A is time-barred so is any like claim against it. Moreover, it 
did not agree that misrepresentations had been made.
Dissatisfied with GE Moneys response Mr and Mrs W came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. He did not recommend that 
the complaint be upheld.
GE Money did not respond to our investigators recommendation. But Mr and Mrs W rejected 
our investigators recommendation. In summary they did not accept that any cause of action 
they might have was time-barred. In addition to the arguments they had raised before they 
suggested that as the finance agreement is still current they are still in time to bring a claim. 
Further they suggested in any event we had applied the wrong start point when looking at 
this point. They suggested the relevant deadline is extended in the case where there has 
been fraudulent misrepresentation. According to them there has been fraudulent 
misrepresentation. Moreover, they only realised in February 2018 they could take action 
against the lender. Up until February 2018 they had been unaware of any further recourse 
they could take after the merchant ceased trading until the above mention date.
Mr and Mrs W asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As I have already mentioned Mr and Mrs W are relying on the rights they suggest they have 
under Section 75. I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint 
about a financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party 
might have under Section 75. In deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint, Ive taken Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the 
same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr and Mrs W pursued a claim for 
misrepresentation and or breach of contract. This service is not a court but an alternative to 
the courts.
Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint is that GE Money hasnt properly exercised its duties under the 
finance agreement it had with them. Specifically, they refer to its duties under section 75. 
That says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
GE Moneys stance is that any claim Mr and Mrs W had against A is now time barred due to 
the Limitation Act 1980. Specifically, it relies on those provisions that say a cause of action, 
of the types complained about here, shall not be brought after the expiration of six years 
from the date of which the cause of action accrued. These provisions have already been 
dealt with in great detail earlier in this complaint. It does not seem that the parties dispute the 
application or meaning of the provisions so there is no need to go into such detail again 
here. 
In brief, I find, that the date on which the cause of action accrued is the date on which the 
contract was entered into and the work commenced and any loss on the part of Mr and Mrs 
W was made  as far as I am aware this is November 2008. It follows they had six years 
from November 2008 to bring a claim. Mr and Mrs W did not bring any claim until outside the 
six year deadline. That is, they brought their claim in February 2019. Only a court can make 
a finding about whether the cause of action is time-barred. But in the circumstances, given 
the provisions of the relevant law and the circumstances of this complaint I dont find that GE 
Money acted unfairly in taking this relevant law into account in this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W counter that the agreement is still live, so this gives them more time to bring a 
claim. I note have no information to show that the agreement is live. Moreover, this is a new argument. This new argument was not raised with GE Money in the complaint nor dealt with 
by it, it follows I have no power to look at this new argument in this decision.
Mr and Mrs W suggest that there is evidence of fraudulent misrepresentation and this too 
impacts on their rights to bring a claim. But up until now Mr and Mrs W have relied on 
negligent misrepresentation. They are now raising a new argument. This new argument was 
not raised with GE Money in the complaint nor dealt with by GE Money before now, it follows 
I have no power to look at this new argument in this decision.
Mr and Mrs W suggest they did not know anything was amiss until their roof started to leak 
in December 2017. But they also suggest they did not know they had any cause to complain 
until February 2018 they have also mentioned September 2018 as the relevant date. This is 
important as when they had the knowledge required to bring a claim for damages and 
knowledge of the right to bring such a claim can impact on how the limitation period is 
reckoned. However, to support their complaint Mr and Mrs W have talked about the specific 
nature of the representations, according to them this included that the roof treatment would 
eliminate moss, algae and lichen growth and also protect against it. Plus, they tell us either 
the treatment did not work at all or was not applied under the conditions required for the 
product to work correctly. I have seen photos of the house and the roof taken in September 
2018.  It shows well established moss and lichen. The roof can be seen from the ground. In 
the circumstances, it seems unlikely that Mr and Mrs W would not have noticed before either 
December 2017 or February 2018 or September 2018 that the moss and lichen was not 
eliminated. If they did not have lichen or moss on their roof in 2008 why did they want the 
roof treatment? Alternatively, if the lichen and moss was indeed removed in 2008, then it 
seems unlikely that Mr and Mrs W did not find out it had grown back before December 2017, 
February 2018, or September 2018. I say this especially because the growth of the moss 
and lichen seems to have been easily discoverable by them. It is correct to say I cant say for 
sure when the well-established moss and lichen may have re-appeared, if that is what 
happened. But I dont need to do so. It is for Mr and Mrs W to demonstrate that the lichen 
and the moss was not there before then and they have not done so. The inconsistent 
information I have seen about when Mr and Mrs W had the relevant knowledge has also 
impacted negatively on the weight I am able to give to their recollections on this point. It 
follows that for all of these individual reasons I am not persuaded by what they have said 
about this complaint point.
In the circumstances, and for the reasons given, I find I have no proper basis for saying that 
it is fair and reasonable that GE Money take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman