DRN-4360640
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Nationwide Building Society sent him an unclear text message 
about restrictions placed on his credit card which resulted in him incurring a financial loss. 
Hes also unhappy about the customer service hes received.  
 
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 13 September 2022, whilst on holiday in the USA, Mr C received a text message from 
Nationwide which read as follows:
Your card ending 6232 is blocked. Did you use the card at 23.24 for £156.67? If yes, 
reply Y. If no, call 08004643063. Thank you. 
Mr C didnt believe the message was genuine, supported by the fact he was able to carry on 
using his credit card without issue. But on 17 September 2022 a transaction was blocked 
whilst Mr C was trying to settle a hotel bill, so Mr C used another credit card incurring a fee 
of £40.31.
Mr C complained to Nationwide. He said the text message hed received was unclear and 
inaccurate. And this had been further confused by the fact hed been able to still make 
transactions despite being told the credit card had been blocked. Mr C wanted Nationwide to 
refund the £40.31. And he was unhappy with the customer service hed received from 
Nationwide when trying to resolve this matter. 
Nationwide explained that the restrictions put on Mr Cs credit card still allowed for chip and 
pin and ATM transactions but stopped card not present and swipe and sign transactions 
because of concerns it had over the security of the credit card. 
Essentially, Nationwide was satisfied the wording in the text message was correct and said 
Mr C shouldve checked the legitimacy of the text message by visiting its website or 
telephoning Nationwide. It said he couldve then checked the reason for the block and 
confirmed that the payment which had prompted the block was genuine. So, Nationwide 
didnt consider itself liable for the costs Mr C incurred by using a different credit card. 
In terms of customer service, Nationwide thought some of the telephone calls it had with 
Mr C couldve been handled better. It apologised to Mr C and paid him £50 to recognise the 
frustration caused.
Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said the text message sent by 
Nationwide was misleading. He said if it had said his credit card had been restricted, he 
wouldve contacted Nationwide. But as it said the card had been blocked  and hed been 
able to still use it  he thought the text message was a scam. 
Mr C also thought the wording in the text message around whether hed used the card was 
also misleading and ambiguous. He said staff at the hotel where he was staying confirmed to 
him that no money matching that amount had been taken from his credit card, so this further 
convinced him the text message wasnt genuine. 
When hed tried to resolve the matter, Mr C said he felt hed been passed around several 
members of staff who didnt seem to understand the situation. 
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She accepted that 
Nationwide staff had told Mr C the text message was poorly worded. But she thought 
Nationwide had ultimately been trying to protect Mr C, and that he couldve contacted it to 
clarify the situation, thus preventing the costs he incurred in having to use a different credit 
card. She also thought the £50 paid by Nationwide for its poor customer service was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr C maintained the text message from Nationwide was unclear. He said his hotel confirmed 
thered been no payment for £156.67 (which he said shouldve been displayed in the text 
message in US dollars) and the telephone number he was asked to call didnt match the 
number on his card. Mr C added that hed been able to use his credit card for the next five 
days  which showed it hadnt been blocked. Mr C said all these factors combined made the 
text message misleading  and that three Nationwide staff he spoke to had agreed with him 
that the wording needed revising. 
Mr C said that when a payment for another hotel was declined, he had no message from 
Nationwide asking if the transaction was genuine. And because of the time difference 
between the USA and the UK, coupled with the embarrassment of having his card declined, 
he said he had no option but to pay for his hotel room with another credit card  incurring the 
£40.31 charge. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr C and Id like to assure him I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and Id like to assure 
Mr C that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive 
focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
The first thing to point out is that Nationwide sent the text message to Mr C on 13 September 
2022 because it had a genuine concern that his credit card had in some way been 
compromised. In other words, Nationwide didnt send the text message to Mr C in error.  
From looking at the information Ive reviewed and on listening to the telephone calls between 
Mr C and Nationwide, I do think theres a suggestion by Nationwide staff that the information 
provided in the text message was vague. And I can understand Mr Cs caution given the 
prevalence of scam text messages purporting to be from a customers bank. 
But Mr C also had a responsibly to take reasonable steps to check the validity of the 
information Nationwide had sent to him  particularly if he had any concerns that the 
message was linked to a scam. And so, I do think Mr C couldve done more here and in turn, 
prevented the £40.31 charge. Ill explain why.Mr C says he checked with the hotel reception whether it had attempted a payment for 
£156.67. But this was somewhat based on an assumption on Mr Cs part that no other 
payment couldve been attempted on his card. He might not have been expecting a payment 
from elsewhere, but a fraudulent payment, by its very nature, wouldnt be a payment a 
customer was expecting.
Further, Mr C has relied heavily on the fact the text message said his card had been blocked 
 yet he was still able to use it. Its correct that a block was placed on the card  and 
Nationwide has explained to us that the specifics of such a block  for example what types of 
transactions it applied to  wouldnt be explained in the text message. Rather, that 
information would be explained on further discussion with the customer, hence its direction 
in the text message to the customer to make contact. Nationwides position here doesnt 
seem unreasonable to me  and I think Mr C shouldnt reasonably have assumed no blocks 
were in place on his credit card just because he was able to make certain transactions.
Mr C said he also had concerns that the number Nationwide was asking him to call in the 
text message didnt match the number on the back of his credit card. Again, I can 
understand why Mr C was exercising caution here  but if he was unsure of the text 
messages legitimacy, then he couldve resolved that by calling the number on his credit card 
 a number he knew to be genuine. 
I appreciate it was embarrassing for Mr C when his credit card was declined  and can 
accept that the circumstances wouldve made it difficult for him to have contacted 
Nationwide at that time. But I must bear in mind that if Mr C had contacted Nationwide in 
response to the 13 September 2022 text message  then its likely his 17 September 2022 
transaction wouldnt have been declined and in turn, the loss hes claiming for having to use 
another credit card couldve been avoided.   
Taking all this into account, I dont think a mistake by Nationwide directly resulted in the 
financial loss Mr C is claiming. 
Ill turn now to the customer service part of Mr Cs complaint. When considering what a 
business should do to put things right, I look at the direct impact its shortcomings have had 
on a customer. Nationwide accepts the service it provided to Mr C in some of the telephone 
conversations with him was not of the expected standard. And on listening to those calls 
myself, I would agree with Nationwide. 
Its evident that Nationwide staff were sympathetic to Mr Cs position when speaking with 
him, and it has taken his comments on board about the wording of the text message. But the 
key point here is that the text message asked Mr C to make contact  and if he had  the 
events that followed couldve been avoided.  
Therefore, on balance, I consider the apology and £50 Nationwide has paid to Mr C to be a 
fair and reasonable level of compensation and in line with what Id have awarded had 
Nationwide not made an offer.
So, Im not going to tell Nationwide to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint in this case. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman