DRN-4049017
Complaint
Mrs F has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs F bought solar panels for her home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Fs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs F, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a 
ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of 
the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Ikano initially asked whether the complaint was referred within six months of the date it 
issued its final response. Our adjudicator confirmed the complaint had been referred around 
a month after the final response was issued. Ikano subsequently didnt respond so the case 
was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Mrs F has repeatedly said she was assured the solar panels would be self-funding and she 
bought the system on that basis. I have looked at the documents still retained including the 
installers contract and the credit agreement amongst others. I can see that the satisfaction 
document does set out the costs as well as the estimated annual output  but this is set out 
as a figure of 3003 kWh. Nothing on any of these documents show that the system wouldnt 
be self-funding as Mrs F says she was led to believe. Ive also seen nothing that 
demonstrates that the benefits (in financial terms) were made clear which would show Mrs F 
was aware the solar panels would cost more than the benefit she would receive. 
So having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs F was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for her.
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mrs F fairly and she lost out because of what Ikano did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Mrs F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Fs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs F from the solar panels 
over a 10-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs F is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Ikano needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs F by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mrs Fs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs F in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs F have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs F and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs F and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs F accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs F has since settled the loan, Ikano should pay her the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs F has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs F paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs F receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs F paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs F receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs F the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-fundingIm satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs F first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman