DRN-3691369
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was supplied with goods which werent of satisfactory quality under a 
fixed sum loan with Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited.
What happened
Mr N was provided with a mobile phone, financed under a fixed sum loan with Virgin Mobile 
in June 2020. In June 2022 Mr N reported that the device wouldnt charge or turn on.
I understand that Virgin Mobile considered a warranty claim for Mr N, but that claim was 
refused on the basis that a fault had been caused by liquid damage. It offered to repair the 
device at a cost to Mr N.
Mr N raised a complaint as he disagreed with the outcome Virgin Mobile had reached. Virgin 
Mobile maintained that it wasnt obliged to repair the device under warranty. It gave Mr N 
referral rights to this service, and he subsequently exercised those rights.
In his referral to this service Mr N questioned the conclusions Virgin Mobile had reached 
about damage being caused due to liquid ingress, specifically because the device was 
meant to be water resistant. He suggested the fault was consistent with devices internal 
electronics or power supply. He asked for the device to be repaired, or to be provided with a 
replacement.
Our investigator told Mr N that we didnt have the power to investigate a complaint about a 
warranty provided by Virgin Mobile. They said that Virgin Mobile nonetheless we responsible 
for a complaint about the devices quality under relevant legislation. 
Ultimately our investigator concluded that there wasnt sufficient evidence to reasonably 
conclude that Mr N had been supplied with goods which werent of satisfactory quality. They 
were particularly persuaded by a report on the fault provided by Virgin Mobile and, taking 
into account the time it took for the fault to occur, thought that the onus was on Mr N to 
demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr N cast doubt on the findings of the report and maintained that the device ought not to 
have been damaged by water ingress because it was meant to be water resistant. He 
suggested a manufacturing or assembly issue might be the cause of the fault. Mr N declined 
to provide an independent inspection of the device as it would leave him out of pocket. Virgin 
Mobile didnt submit any further evidence in response to our investigators assessment.
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns gone into detail about what he believes the faults with the device he was supplied 
with are. I dont intend to mirror that detail, simply because I dont find it necessary in 
explaining what a fair outcome is. I can assure him, however, that Ive carefully considered 
everything hes said and has provided. 
Mr Ns complaint is about the quality of a mobile phone acquired using a fixed sum loan
agreement. Thats a regulated agreement, and one which this service has the power to
consider a complaint about.
As our investigator correctly asserted, we cannot consider a complaint about a warranty 
claim considered by Virgin Mobile. Thats because our rules only allow us to consider 
specific activities, and the warranty provided by Virgin Mobile or the manufacturer isnt one 
of those activities. 
However, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects 
consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the 
finance provider is legally answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the 
supplier. In practice that means if Mr N has a claim against the supplier for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, he also has a like claim against the finance 
provider.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant here. It says, in summary, that any
goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality  defined as whether they meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality also refers
to the durability of the goods.
So, in the context of Mr Ns complaint, I need to determine whether theres been a breach of
contract on the grounds that he was supplied with goods which were of unsatisfactory
quality.
Mr N was supplied with a brand-new mobile phone, so Id expect it to be free from faults for
a considerable time and also to be sufficiently durable.
The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first six months. So, if the
goods are found to be faulty within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was
present when the goods were supplied, unless theres compelling evidence to suggest
otherwise. Outside of those six months, its for Mr N to show that the goods were not of
satisfactory quality.
The device in question was supplied to Mr N in July 2020 and it seems he first reported fault 
with it in excess of 23 months later. So, I think the onus to demonstrate the device wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied, or hasnt been sufficiently durable, falls on Mr N.
An agent on behalf of Virgin Mobile inspected the device and produced a report on what it 
considered was the cause of the fault. The report suggested that damage had occurred due 
to it coming into to contact with liquid containing chemicals or minerals and not being rinsed 
out with fresh water, as it ought to have been. It states that the device is only rated as water 
resistant to fresh water. 
Im satisfied, based on information published by the manufacturer, that the assertions made 
regarding the extent to which the device ought to be water resistant, as well as the 
requirements to rinse it with fresh water after contact with other types of liquid, are accurate. 
Ive also found no reason to doubt the reports finding regarding the cause of the fault. 
Overall, I found the report to be sufficiently detailed and persuasive. It, in addition to the time 
it took for the fault to occur, persuades me that fault with Mr Ns device was likely not due to a manufacturing or assembly issue as Mr N has suggested. 
Ive carefully considered everything which Mr N has said about what he believes could be 
the cause of the fault. However, I havent found what hes said regarding the cause of the 
fault as plausible and persuasive as the inspection which Virgin Mobile provided. 
Given the above, Im not persuaded that Mr N was supplied with goods which werent of 
satisfactory quality either at the point of supply as well as on the grounds of it being 
sufficiently durable. As a result, I cannot fairly require further action from Virgin Mobile.
Lastly, I note that Mr N raised issue with the time Virgin Mobile took in responding to his 
concerns and that it didnt return his calls promptly. However, having reviewed the events 
which led to this complaint, Im of the view that Virgin Mobile handled things reasonably and 
I therefore make no award in this respect.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman