The complaint
Mr B complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) 
irresponsibly gave him loans which he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr B took out 4 instalment loans with MoneyBoat between February and December 2016. 
Mr B says he was borrowing to repay existing credit and was in financial difficulty and so it 
was irresponsible to give him the loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
DRN-1203998I think its important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
MoneyBoat has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr B. It asked Mr B for 
details of his income and normal expenditure. And MoneyBoat carried out checks on Mr Bs 
credit file.
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for MoneyBoat to give Mr B loans 1 to 3 on 
the basis of the information he gave about his income and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for MoneyBoat to agree to lend. 
As Mr B hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these 
loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
But I dont agree that the position is the same for loan 4. Mr B asked for loan 4 in December 
2016, 10 months after asking for loan 1. He asked for the same amount as he had originally 
requested for loan 1 in February. He had been borrowing almost continually for this time and 
wasnt in fact making any inroads into the amount that he owed. I consider that at that this 
point the signs were there that Mr B wasnt responsibly managing his money and further 
lending was likely to be unsustainable for him. His borrowing pattern over the course of the 
previous 10 months suggested that he wasnt using these loans as a short term solution.  
Mr B asked for loan 4 less than two weeks after repaying loan 3 which suggested that he 
wasnt sustainably able to make the repayment without borrowing again. It is these factors 
that lead me to conclude that this loan was unsustainable.
So Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right - what MoneyBoat needs to do
A.  Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees 
andcharges on all upheld loans, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.  Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C.  Pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D.  Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file about loan 4. If the loan 
has been sold MoneyBoat should liaise with the debt purchaser to achieve this outcome*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct Evergreen Finance 
London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman