DRN-3591571
The complaint
Mr M complained about the conduct of surveyors during a visit arranged by AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited (AA) as part of a home insurance claim.
References to AA include contractors and companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr M contacted AA to make a buildings insurance claim. Mr M complained about the claim. 
An ombudsman at this service issued a decision that said AA wasnt being unreasonable by 
refusing to validate the claim without visiting Mr Ms property. 
Following this, AA arranged for surveyors to visit Mr Ms home. It said two surveyors would 
visit and that they would record the visit. Mr M said the surveyors would need to wear masks 
and display photo ID. AA agreed to this.
Surveyors visited Mr Ms property but he told them the visit couldnt take place due to 
government Covid restrictions. AA arranged another visit for a few days later. After the 
surveyors arrived for the visit, Mr M said it couldnt take place and sent the surveyors away. 
He contacted AA to complain about the surveyors and said he had refused the visit due to 
the conduct of the surveyors and that they hadnt kept to the agreement, such as wearing 
masks and displaying photo ID. When AA replied, it said it had arranged two separate 
appointments and, on both occasions, surveyors had been refused access by Mr M, despite 
him agreeing to the visits taking place. It said that following a full review, it had found no 
evidence of the allegations made by Mr M. Due to Mr Ms continuing refusal to allow access, 
AA said it was no longer able to continue with the claim due to failure to permit validation.
When our investigator looked at the complaint, she didnt uphold it. She said that based on 
what shed seen, there wasnt evidence to show the surveyors didnt keep to the terms 
agreed or wouldnt have kept to them had the assessment been allowed to take place. She 
also said it wasnt unreasonable for AA to decide the claim could no longer proceed.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr M has complained that at the second arranged visit, one of the surveyors wasnt wearing 
a mask and neither were wearing photo ID cards. Ive looked at the video footage. The 
surveyor I could see in the footage didnt have a mask on and seemed to be wearing a 
jacket over his shirt. I didnt see an ID card in the footage. AA told this service both 
surveyors had masks with them, but they didnt need to put them on until they entered the 
property. AA also said both surveyors had ID cards attached to their shirts. 
So, Ive thought about this. From what I could see in the video footage, the surveyors 
remained outside, and seemed to be close to the property boundary, throughout the 
discussion that took place. The agreement was that the surveyors would wear masks and ID 
cards during the visit. During the discussion, it became clear the visit wouldnt take place. I 
havent seen anything to show the surveyors wouldnt have worn masks or shown their ID 
cards had the visit been allowed to proceed.
Mr M has also complained that a surveyor recorded the conversation on a mobile phone, 
rather than a body camera. It was AA that wanted to record the visit, although Mr M later 
agreed to this. Im aware there had been accusations following previous visits and that it was 
decided it would be beneficial to ensure the details of the visit were recorded so there was a 
record of what had taken place. Given one of the surveyors started to record on his mobile 
phone, I think this showed there was an intention to record the visit. I dont think that the 
recording device used changed this or the ability to capture what took place during the visit, 
had it taken place.
Mr M also said only one of the surveyors recorded the conversation, when both should have 
done so. AA explained that the second surveyor didnt have time to start recording before it 
became clear the visit wouldnt take place. So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to 
show that the second surveyor wouldnt have recorded the visit had it taken place.
Im aware that the recording also didnt include the start of the conversation between the 
surveyors and Mr M. AA provided an explanation for this, which Mr M said was untrue. AA 
also said that it had to be careful about recording in public spaces and Im aware the 
surveyors seemed to be on the property boundary when the recorded conversation took 
place. But, regardless of why the start of the conversation wasnt recorded, I havent seen 
anything that persuades me the start of that conversation was a factor in why the visit didnt 
then take place.
Mr M has said the video footage was of a second visit made by the surveyors that day. He 
said the surveyors had already approached his property a few minutes earlier and he had 
found them rattling his gate. He said their behaviour at the first visit was why he refused the 
visit when the surveyors returned a few minutes later. Im aware that AA has said the 
surveyors only went to the property once that day. Ive also looked at the video footage. 
During that conversation, Mr M said the visit couldnt take place due to a Covid related issue. 
I didnt see anything that suggested to me that previous behaviour by those surveyors that 
day was the reason.
Mr M also said the second surveyor, who didnt record the conversation, was crouched down 
and made obscene gestures to him. Mr M said he felt intimidated and was frightened, so 
didnt challenge him. AA has said the surveyor didnt act in this way and questioned why, if this had happened, Mr M didnt appear to react to it in the footage. The second surveyor 
doesnt appear in the video footage. However, during the conversation that was recorded Mr 
M challenged the surveyor who was recording the visit when he thanked Mr M for allowing 
them to travel before cancelling the visit. Mr M objected to what the surveyor had said. So, 
Im mindful that Mr M seemed able to challenge what he thought was unacceptable 
behaviour by one of the surveyors during the conversation. I also didnt see anything that 
appeared to be a reaction to the second surveyor. So, based on what the video footage 
shows, I dont think I have evidence to show the second surveyor acted in the way 
described.
So, from what Ive seen, Mr M told the surveyors he was refusing the visit because of a 
Covid related issue. This was captured in the video footage and I think it was reasonable for 
AA to take this as the reason. At this point, AA decided that, due to Mr Ms lack of co-
operation, the claim couldnt proceed. So, Ive also thought about this.
AA had arranged a visit a few days before and when those surveyors arrived, Mr M told 
them the visit couldnt take place due to government Covid restrictions. Before that visit was 
due to take place, Mr M had tried to contact AA. Ive seen evidence that AA left voicemail 
messages to check whether his call was about the visit. However, Mr M didnt reply and so 
the surveyors arrived and were told the visit couldnt take place. This was when the visit that 
is the focus of this decision was arranged. Again, AA took steps to confirm that the visit 
could go ahead, including by speaking to Mr M on the phone. However, when the surveyors 
arrived, they were told the visit couldnt take place due to Covid related issues. 
Im also aware that these visits were arranged following previous issues about arranging a 
visit and a decision issued by another ombudsman at this service. Thinking about everything 
that has happened, I think it was reasonable for AA to decide that it should close the claim. 
Im aware that AA declined the claim due to a failure to co-operate, but recorded it as being 
withdrawn. Although Mr M didnt ask for the claim to be withdrawn, I dont think it would 
assist Mr M for me to require AA to change the reason on its systems.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require AA to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman