DRN-3053471
The complaint
Mr D complains Nationwide Building Society provided poor customer service when he paid a 
bankers draft into his account
What happened
In February 2021 Mr D arranged for a bank (I refer to it as B) to raise a bankers draft for a 
significant amount. He paid it into his account at a Nationwide branch. He was told it would 
clear within one working day. However, this didnt happen. 
Mr D was concerned the funds had been misplaced. Over the following days he made 
various enquiries with B and Nationwide. It emerged B had rejected the draft after 
Nationwide had presented it. Mr D was told by Nationwide the draft could be presented 
again. It then said that wouldnt be possible, a new draft would be required. About a week or 
so after raising it Mr D cancelled it. He had lost faith in proceedings. 
Nationwide responded to a complaint from Mr D. It explained B had rejected the cheque. It 
didnt accept it had done anything wrong. Mr D wasnt satisfied with the response, so came 
to this service. Hes not happy with the customer service provided by Nationwide. He says it 
gave him conflicting information about the draft. He wants a written apology and 
compensation for financial loss and the distress he experienced. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. So she didn't recommend 
it pay Mr D any compensation or do anything differently. He didn't accept that, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept this matter caused Mr D frustration and distress for a few days at least. However, I 
can only fairly require a business to take steps to put things right where its made a mistake. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Nationwide was responsible for the issue. 
Nationwide presented the cheque to B. Unfortunately B rejected it. That wasnt due to any 
error by Nationwide as far as Ive seen. Ultimately, it wasnt responsible for any resulting 
distress experienced by Mr D. It explained to him, within reasonable time, what had 
happened with the draft. It returned it to him promptly. 
Nationwide could have been clearer about what would happen to the physical bankers draft 
after its rejection by B. But I cant see how this will have affected the outcome for Mr D or 
had any significant impact on him. The correct information was provided within a day or two. 
The draft was rejected by B regardless of Nationwides explanation. Either way Mr D would 
still have needed to make alternative arrangements to transfer the funds. 
So Im not going to require Nationwide to pay any compensation or issue the written apology 
Mr Ds requested. Hes asked for an explanation of the operating procedures involved. I can 
see Nationwides explained, when returning the draft, Bs reasons for rejecting it. I realise 
Mr D wants reassurance this wont happen again. But I think its unlikely a more detailed 
technical explanation will provide that. 
I accept this matter caused Mr D some distress and inconvenience. But ultimately 
Nationwide wasnt responsible.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not asking Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr D any 
compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman