DRN-3704364
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) relates to a monthly 
mortgage payment which was due for payment on 28 January 2022, but which was not 
made until 5 February. Mr M is unhappy an arrears marker was put on his credit file in 
respect of this missed payment and asked for it to be removed. He is also unhappy that 
Nationwide didnt make him aware of the potential pitfall of having the payment date at the 
end of the month and the length of time it took Nationwide to agree to remove the marker.
What happened
Mr M obtained his mortgage in October 2020 and made monthly mortgage payments by 
direct debit (DD). In January 2022 the DD was returned unpaid leading Nationwide to write 
to Mr M on 31 January asking him to rectify that. Immediately on receipt of the letter Mr M 
made a payment on 5 February. As Mr Ms payment was late, a late payment marker was 
placed on his credit file.
 
Mr M says Nationwide fixed the date of the payment as the 28th of each month, which he 
feels didnt provide enough time to correct any missed payments such as occurred here. 
Had he known of this potential problem he says he would have elected to have an earlier 
payment date so as to avoid the consequences which arose. He points out that at all times 
he had sufficient funds in his account to make the payment, a fact which Nationwide accept.
Nationwide said mortgage payments need to be paid each calendar month in line with the 
mortgage terms and conditions, and when they arent, it must report that fact to the credit 
reference agencies as a missed payment. However, Nationwide agreed to amend Mr Ms 
credit file as a matter of goodwill, accepting that he had sufficient funds in his account when 
the DD was returned. They said the reason the DD went unpaid was because it was marked 
refer to payer meaning it had been rejected by Mr Ms own bank.
Mr M was unhappy with Nationwides final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Nationwide hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive taken account 
of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available 
evidence. 
The starting point to this complaint must be the mortgage offer and the terms and conditions, 
which incorporate the General Mortgage Conditions 2019. These documents clearly set out 
when, contractually, each monthly payment is due. That is the 1st of each month. It is equally 
clear that a customer may, if they wish, choose which date in the month they wish to make 
the monthly repayment, up to the 28th. It is also clear that non-payment on the 1st will lead to 
arrears for that month, but Nationwide wont take any action if payment is made on any later 
date chosen by the customer.
Mr M believes that Nationwide fixed the date of the 28th for repayment. Nationwide dont 
have any direct evidence of Mr M choosing this date, although they do rely on what their 
mortgage advisor remembers and what he says is the usual process. Nationwide also say 
that if a customer doesnt choose a date then they pick a default date of the 1st of each 
month. In the absence of any documentary or recorded evidence of what was agreed 
regarding the date for repayment, it is impossible for me to know what happened. The best I 
can do is consider what most likely happened. I see no reason to doubt that the mortgage 
advisor would have proceeded as he usually did, and it is likely he would have raised the 
question of a preferred payment date. I think it is likely there was some discussion about the 
date since the default date was not used. And, as I cant see there would be any personal 
benefit to the mortgage advisor in picking the 28th, it seems more likely than not that this 
date was picked after some discussion with Mr M. In support of Nationwides argument that it 
was Mr M who picked the date for repayment, Nationwide have produced a letter dated 6 
October 2020. That letter confirms, Your ongoing monthly payment will be taken 
automatically on your chosen date as shown. The letter also explains how that date can be 
changed. This, I accept, is evidence pointing towards Mr M having chosen the 28th as the 
payment date.
But, even if I am wrong about that and the mortgage advisor did pick the 28th, it was open to 
Mr M to change that date if he wished. He was invited to do so in the letter of 6 October. Mr 
M has argued that he was unaware of the potential consequences of not making payment by 
the end of the month. I dont accept that, since the terms and conditions spell out that action 
would be taken if a payment was missed. Certainly, Mr M knew that he was making 
payments by DD on the 28th of each month because he had done so many times before. 
And it is reasonably foreseeable that if there was a problem with a payment on the 28th it 
would leave little time for that to be corrected, leading, most likely, to payment being made in 
the following month as it was here. So I do think that had Mr M wished to change his 
payment date he could have done so and it was reasonably foreseeable that if he let it 
remain as the 28th, it could potentially cause him problems, as indeed it did.
Mr M feels that Nationwide should tell its customers about the consequences of picking a 
date for repayment in the latter days of the month. Nationwide did however address this 
point as they said they wouldnt take action with regard to any arrears arising after the 1st, so 
long as payment was made by the date the customer chose to pay, and before the 28th. It is 
clear from this that action would be taken and was to be expected if payment wasnt made. 
Although I accept, as did Nationwide, that Mr M had funds in his account on the 28th, it 
remains the case that the responsibility for ensuring payment is made, rests with Mr M not 
Nationwide. As a fact, payment wasnt made on the 28th and Ive not seen any evidence to 
say that this was as a result of a Nationwide error. To the contrary Nationwides evidence 
shows that it was a problem with Mr Ms bank. Whilst it is also correct to observe that the 
terms and conditions do not state that a late payment marker will be entered onto a 
customers credit file if a payment is paid late, it is an obvious and natural consequence of such a failure, and one which is reasonably to be expected. I accept that Nationwide 
contacted Mr M to advise him of the late payment within a reasonable time on 31st January.
Nationwide have confirmed and provided evidence that Mr M was not charged any late 
payment fees or penalties. Also, that it agreed to amend his credit file to show that there was 
no late payment. To this extent Mr M has no loss since he is back in the position he would 
have been in had the marker not been entered onto his credit file. 
But, Mr M also complains that he feels he was unfairly treated by Nationwide because they 
refused to remove the late payment marker on his credit file when he asked them to. 
Nationwide have been clear in stating that they have only agreed to do this as a gesture of 
goodwill, and have maintained that the process and act of initially registering the late 
payment was correct. I would agree with this and for the reasons given above. The payment 
was late and so it follows Nationwide should report that fact. Whilst there has been a delay in 
having the marker removed from the date Mr M requested it be so, that is because 
Nationwide were dealing with his complaint and deciding on a course of action. That, they 
were entitled to do, and I do not see their subsequent decision to remove it as evidence of 
any fault on their part, rather a pragmatic way of achieving a resolution to the complaint. 
So, although Mr M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Nationwide 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman