DRN-2015856
Complaint
Mr C made a complaint that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) had unfairly 
increased the cost of his pet insurance policy.
He is also unhappy with some of the information given to him by RSA. Particularly 
information about the way its decided whether a medical condition could be connected to 
something a pet has been treated for in the past. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, RSA has accepted that the information it gave to Mr C about the longer-term cost 
implications of the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And RSA has offered to pay 
Mr C £250 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused as a result of this. 
I understand that Mr C has agreed that this is a satisfactory way to resolve the part of his 
complaint about the shock of such a large increase to his policy premium. And from what I 
have seen it looks like a fair way to resolve this aspect of Mr Cs complaint  so I wont be 
making any further findings on it here. 
But I know Mr C remains unhappy that he was told by RSA it would be down to his vet to 
decide if a condition was connected to something his dog had been treated for in the past. 
He says that this was misleading and untruthful. 
I understand that Mr C cancelled his policy underwritten by RSA and took out a new policy 
with a different insurer. Since that time Mr Cs pet has unfortunately been unwell and his new 
policy wont cover a claim for his dogs treatment, as his new insurer considers it linked to a 
condition his dog has been treated for in the past (when under the RSA policy). Mr C has 
had to pay a significant amount of money for his dogs treatment. 
Mr C says that if RSA had given him better information about what wouldnt be covered 
under a new policy, he would have kept his original lifetime policy with RSA. Therefore he 
would have been covered for the recent treatment his dog has had to have. He says RSA 
should cover the cost of the treatment minus what he would have paid in premium 
instalments. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr C says and have listened to the calls provided by 
RSA. I know that Mr C thinks that RSA hasnt provided recordings of all the calls between 
him and it. But I have no real reason to think it is withholding recordings  and in any event I 
have the call from 22 June 2019 where its discussed how a connected condition is 
determined. And as this seems to be the main part of Mr Cs complaint, Im satisfied I have 
enough information to fairly decide this case without any additional calls Mr C says should 
have been provided. I want to be clear its not my role to punish RSA. If I think something did go wrong, Ill look at 
whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if Mr C has lost out. 
The conversation Mr C had with RSA on 22 June 2019 was largely surrounding the renewal 
quote he had received with a significant premium increase. It was in the context of trying to 
reduce the amount he was paying for his policy. 
During the call RSAs representative responds to Mr Cs concerns about what would be 
considered linked to an existing condition, saying it is his vet who would decide if something 
is connected to previous condition or not. 
When an insurer is reviewing a claim, including whether it is connected to something treated 
for in the past, its common for them to take into account the opinion of the treating vet and 
they also might refer to their own vet specialist. So I dont think RSAs representative was 
being untruthful or misleading, although I do think she probably could have been clearer 
about how these types of claim are reviewed by RSA (she of course couldnt have 
commented on other insurers practices). But even if she had, I dont think it would have 
made any difference to Mr Cs decision to cancel the policy.
I say this because at the time Mr C considered his dog to be very healthy. And with no 
foreseeable claims, his focus was to reduce the amount he was paying. During the call he 
says. its because she is so healthy that I feel like Im spending a lot of money on a policy 
that I hopefully wont have to use. 
I am satisfied that Mr C understood that most new policies whether with RSA or another 
insurer would be unlikely to cover pre-existing conditions. And although, as mentioned 
above, RSAs representative probably could have been clearer about how potential 
connected conditions could be reviewed, she did say it would be down to the opinion of a vet 
 suggesting there is no simple answer to what is considered connected or not. I dont think 
Mr C went away from the conversation thinking anything connected to his dogs previous 
claims would be covered by a new policy. So I dont see how what RSAs representative said 
could have impacted on his decision to cancel the policy and lose his ongoing cover. 
It wasnt for RSA to tell him that existing conditions or anything connected/associated 
wouldnt be covered under a new policy anyway  it wouldnt know what the terms of the 
new policy would be and you can get policies that cover existing conditions. The way an 
insurer considers what is connected to/associated with a previous condition might also vary. 
It was for the new insurer to make the significant exclusions and limitations of the policy 
clear to Mr C before he bought it. And if, as Mr C says, he was led into a sense of 
uncertainty by RSAs representative and was concerned about this, I think its reasonable to 
have expected him to clarify what would or would not be covered under a new policy, with 
the new insurer, before cancelling his existing one.
I appreciate that Mr C is in a difficult position. But I dont think the fact his dog is now not 
covered for a condition under his new policy is the result of anything RSA has done wrong  
and I dont uphold this part of his complaint. 
My final decision 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to pay Mr C £250 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance should pay Mr C £250. I dont require it to do anything 
further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman