DRN-3014824
The complaint
Mr C complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages (Siberite) 
mishandled his buy to let mortgages.
What happened
Mr C had two buy to let (BTL) mortgages with Siberite. The monthly payment due in January 
2021 was taken late  on 4 February 2021.
Mr C complained. Siberite had collected the payments late. As a result, he was charged late 
fees of £40, and his credit file was marked with late payment markers. His credit score 
therefore went down. He was looking at re-mortgaging one of his other loans  and because 
of the late payment markers, the prices had gone up. The difference in rates could cost 
thousands of pounds. A limit with a credit card provider was reduced from £16,000 to 
£7,550. He received a late payment advice letter on 6 February 2021. This caused him a lot 
of stress and anxiety. He said Siberite couldve done more  for example, their SMS text 
message sent on 3 February 2021 couldve said he could ignore the letter. They couldve 
kept their call centre open at the weekend to take calls about the problem  it was closed. 
They couldve put a message on their website. 
Siberite apologised. They said theyd had systems problems which caused the direct debits 
to be taken late. They refunded the late payment fees and amended Mr Cs credit file to 
remove the late payment markers. But  the timescale for this wasnt certain due to the 
reliance on the credit reference agencies to do this. They offered payment of £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Siberite had acted fairly in 
dealing with Mr Cs complaint. Mr C hadnt brought forward any evidence of actual costs  
he was in discussions with his mortgage broker about a re-mortgage, but that hadnt reached 
the stage of finding out about competitive offers. Mr Cs credit report in March 2021 didnt 
show any missed payments to Siberite. On Mr Cs other lenders, it wasnt possible to be 
precise as to whether their decisions were as a result of the missed payments to Siberite.
Mr C asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mr C is coming from  because of the errors by Siberite, his credit file was 
marked with late payment markers and he says that because of this, his credit score went 
down  straight away. He paid fees of £40. And  he had the stress of getting a late payment 
letter from Siberite and then couldnt contact them  because it was a Saturday, and the call 
centre closed at lunchtime. I can appreciate the stress and anxiety that this caused Mr C. He 
places great importance on his credit score  he showed us evidence that it went down just 
after the late payments  in February 2021. He showed us that a credit card provider 
reduced his limit from £16,000 to £7,550. Mr C says that this inconvenienced him  as he 
needed the higher credit limit. But also  I can see from his credit file in March 2021  that 
he had several other credit cards at the time, with substantial, undrawn limits  so he could 
use those. And he says that he was looking round for a re-mortgage at the time  and the 
quotes he got were higher than he expected because of what happened. But  he doesnt 
have any firm evidence of the quotes, or about the possible costs.
Siberite admitted their errors and offered Mr C compensation of £150. And they refunded the 
late payment fees and asked the credit reference agencies to remove the late payment 
markers from Mr Cs credit file. I can see that his credit file dated early March 2021 and early 
April 2021  showed no late payment markers on his two Siberite loans  so that was put 
right quickly. And  I can see that Mr C had a lot of other financial products and there were 
five other loans with other lenders  all of which were paid up to date. So overall, his credit 
file looked strong. I think its likely that the two late markers in question led to the reduction in 
credit score in February 2021. But  in any case  by early March 2021, Mr Cs credit file 
was corrected. So  any impact was short term, and therefore didnt affect Mr C significantly.
Mr C argues that Siberite couldve done more when they realised the problem  such as 
saying in their SMS message on 3 February 2021  to ignore the late payment letter which 
arrived on 6 February 2021 and putting a message on their website. These are fair points  
but I must decide  whether they would support a higher compensation payment to Mr C.
The text message dated 3 February 2021 said Due to a technical error we did not collect 
your direct debit as planned on 29 January 2021. We apologise for this error and confirm we 
will collect the direct debit on Thursday 4 February 2021. We will be backdating collection to 
29 January 2021 and will shortly write to you to confirm what we have done to put this matter 
right. If you have any queries. please contact us on xxxx Mr C says that the text was 
wrong  as the payments were taken one day later, on 5 February 2021  but I dont think 
thats a large issue, especially as Siberite also said they would adjust the interest on the 
loans.
After that, the late payment letter arrived on 6 February 2021. Mr C says that this caused 
him a lot of stress. But equally, the SMS text arrived first. And I think it gave clear information 
about what had happened.  And  Mr C was an experienced borrower with a lot of other 
loans  his credit file says he had five in March 2021 (plus the Siberite loans). He also said 
to us he had a lot of other BTL loans and properties. So, I think Mr C was an experienced 
borrower  so I think it was reasonable for us to assume he couldve dealt with the situation 
he was faced with. 
I agree that in an ideal world, Siberite couldve said in their text to ignore the letter which 
arrived on 6 February 2021 and put a message on their website  if the issue affected a lot 
of their borrowers. But  its too late to ask Siberite to do that now, and in any event  we 
arent the regulator of Siberite and so its not for us to ask that of Siberite  thats the role of 
the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to decide on a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr 
Cs complaint. And, in the circumstances, I dont think this was significant.
I can see that Mr C feels strongly about what happened and so will be disappointed by my 
decision, but I wont be asking them to do anymore here. Siberite offered compensation of 
£150 to Mr C. In the circumstances of his complaint, I think thats reasonable  Im not 
persuaded that Mr C has lost out financially because of what happened. I cant see that he 
accepted Siberites offer. If he wishes to receive it, he should get in touch with Siberite. 
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman