DRN-3458271
The complaint
Company A complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) have unfairly refused to pay 
certain elements of its business interruption insurance claim. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In terms of Company As loss of rent for the unoccupied premises above its shop, the 
policy and policy schedule do not include landlord cover for loss of rent. Zurich say 
that it never disclosed details about a property being rented above the shop in its 
insurance proposal, which is why there is no additional cover in place for it. 
I appreciate that Company A treats rent from its upstairs premises as income. But I 
dont consider that the business interruption policy wording does, as it provides cover 
for loss of income  defined as the money being paidin the course of your 
business at the saleshop premises for goods sold and services provided. Loss of 
rent for a different premises to the saleshop itself would therefore not fall within the 
parameters of lost income. It is neither the saleshop, nor can accommodation be 
considered as goods or services provided from the saleshop. So, I dont think Zurich 
have acted unreasonably by refusing to cover this loss. If Company A does hold a 
separate landlord policy for the premises it rents out above the shop, then it may 
wish to make a separate claim to the relevant insurer for the loss of rent. 
In terms of the government coronavirus grant, this was available for businesses that 
were unable to open as a result of the pandemic. This was not the cause of 
Company As business interruption, which occurred prior to the pandemic; it was due 
to structural damage to the shop caused by a vehicle. I understand that the council 
were informed that the property was empty during this period so that the relevant 
relief on business rates could be claimed, and that this precluded Company A from 
applying for the government grant. But it wasnt wrong for such empty premises relief 
to have been sought, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Company A should have 
otherwise received the grant. 
Company A wasnt trading at the time the government grant was announced, and the 
purpose of the grant was to provide support to businesses experiencing financial 
hardship as a result of the pandemic, which Company A was not as it had stopped 
trading before March 2020. It also had its losses during this period covered by its 
business interruption claim and so did not require financial relief from the government 
during this period. So, it seems highly unlikely they wouldve been eligible for the 
government grant in any event. I therefore see no basis in which the insurer ought 
reasonably to have included the value of any such grant within its loss calculations. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Company A. But Im not persuaded Zurich 
have acted unreasonably by declining these elements of the claim, so I will not be asking the 
insurer to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman