DRN-4333827
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Limited (BHL). 
What happened
In July 2021, Mr B acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BHL. The 
car was about six years old and had travelled 70,144 miles when it was supplied to Mr B. 
The cash price of the car was £6,610, Mr B paid a deposit of £661 so the total amount 
financed on this agreement was £5,949 payable over 60 Months.
Mr B appears to have had a trouble-free drive of the car for the first 18 months or so, but by 
February 2023 and after having driven around 10,000 miles in the car, he started to have 
problems with it. 
Mr B explained the error message battery charge fault kept coming up on the dashboard, 
so he contacted the dealership who asked him to bring it in. But as Mr B was concerned 
about the car breaking down due to its poor battery charge, he didnt bring it to dealership.
Mr B said he had the alternator replaced and refurbished, purchased a new battery, a 
tensioner and drive belt and a new battery sensor. Mr B said this had depleted his savings, 
so he decided to acquire another vehicle. In April 2023 Mr B complained to BHL about the 
issues he was experiencing with the car. 
In May 2023, BHL issued their final response to Mr Bs complaint. BHL didnt uphold his 
complaint. They said they didnt have any evidence that the issues reported by Mr B were 
present or developing at the point it was supplied to him.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr B brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr B 
said he isnt happy that BHL is requesting that he brings the agreement up to the halfway 
point to end it, and a further £250 for collection. He believes that due to the issues hes 
experienced with the car BHL should waive the charges.
Having considered all the information on file, one of our investigators recommended that Mr 
Bs complaint should not be upheld. The investigator concluded that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him, and so BHL were acting fairly by requesting 
the costs related to a voluntary termination of the car.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He said he believed it couldnt be disproved that 
the issues were present when the car was supplied to him. However, as the investigators 
view remained unchanged, Mr B asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. BHL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that BHL supplied Mr B with a used car that had travelled 70,144 miles. 
With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage. 
From the information provided I think its likely there was a fault with the car. Although Ive 
seen no evidence of this, for example in the form of diagnostics or inspection reports, Im 
persuaded by what Mr B has told our service. Having considered its likely the car had 
developed a fault; Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Satisfactory quality
Mr B highlighted a number of issues he was having with his car, which suggested it may 
have been suffering from an electrical fault. Mr B believes it cant be proved or disproved 
that the problems were present when the car was supplied to him. However, he provided 
screen shots from different websites which refer to the electrical reliability being a weakness 
of the make and model of his car.
Ive not seen any further evidence to support what Mr B has said so I dont consider that the 
car was faulty or developing a fault at the point it was supplied to him. I acknowledge from 
the screen shots provided there is some question around the electrical reliability of the car, 
but I dont consider that to be compelling enough for me to conclude that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I dont think its reasonable to conclude that cars of 
the make and model of Mr Bs are inherently faulty. Id need to see evidence, for example in 
the form of an expert report or diagnostic confirming that the car has an electrical fault and 
that it was present when the car was supplied to Mr B.
Ive considered that Mr B has had a trouble-free experience of the car for the first 18 months 
and travelled an additional 10,000 miles. I acknowledge what Mr B has said about an average annual mileage being around 20,000, however, 10,000 miles in itself is not 
insignificant, and I think its unlikely Mr B would have got the mileage that he did out of it if it 
was inherently faulty. This further persuades me that the car was in a satisfactory condition 
when he acquired it.
I recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about the electrical faults, however without the 
evidence to support what Mr B has said, although I think its likely the car as a fault, Im not 
persuaded that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
End of contract charges
BHL has sent us confirmation that Mr B requested to voluntarily terminate (VT) his finance 
agreement. A VT instruction form dated 26 April 2023 confirms this. The terms of the 
agreement under the section your right to terminate this contract says that to end the 
agreement early, the car would need to be returned along with half the total amount payable 
under the agreement, which in Mr Bs case was £4,076.60. 
BHL confirmed that Mr B had made a total payment of £3,283.27 (this included Mr Bs 
deposit and payments made to date). So, this meant there was an outstanding balance of 
£793.33, which is the amount confirmed in the VT documentation, sent to Mr B.
In addition, in a letter dated 6 June 2023, sent to Mr B about the termination of his 
agreement, BHL confirmed that when arranging the collection of the vehicle there could be a 
charge of up to £250 if an alternative collection has to be arranged. BHL explained that this 
is in the instance of the car not being roadworthy. 
Mr B believes the above charges should be waived in lieu of the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced. I acknowledge what Mr B has said here and why, however I think the 
above charges are fair and reasonable in the circumstances, as explained in the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. 
However, as Ive concluded the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied 
and that BHL have acted fairly throughout the circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied 
that it is fair and reasonable for them to apply the above end of contract charges. And so, I 
dont require BHL to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, for the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Black Horse 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman