DRN-1783875
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy The Protection Specialist Limited is requesting she pay a fee to it, for work 
on a successful PPI claim. She has said she was mis-led into agreeing for it to represent 
her. 
What happened
Mrs M has explained she was contacted by The Protection Specialist in relation to claiming 
for mis-sold PPI in early 2019. She has said that at this time she let The Protection Specialist 
know she had already made a claim for mis-sold PPI against the relevant lender, through 
another claims management company (CMC). But she hadnt heard from this CMC in a 
while.
Mrs M said at this point she was told by The Protection Specialist that this wasnt a problem 
 and it could take over the matter going forward. So, Mrs M agreed to be represented by it. 
She signed a letter of authority to authorise it to represent her. And The Protection Specialist 
started work on her behalf.
But Mrs M said she later became aware, through the lender, that she couldnt be 
represented by two CMCs. Given this, she felt shed been mis-led by The Protection 
Specialist into agreeing to its representation. And when her claim for a PPI refund was 
successful  she didnt feel the fee under the agreement she signed with it, was something 
she should have to pay.
The Protection Specialist didnt agree. It said that it couldnt see any evidence Mrs M had 
told it she had already made a claim for PPI with the lender, through any other firm. It said it 
had notes she was pursuing other matters elsewhere  but nothing in relation to this claim. It 
noted Mrs M had received its terms and conditions, and she had signed a letter of authority 
for it to act on her behalf. It said it had carried out this work, and therefore its fee was due.
Because Mrs M didnt agree she referred her complaint to this service, for an independent 
review.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. To summarise, she said she 
didnt have any firm evidence that Mrs M had told The Protection Specialist she was being 
represented elsewhere. And she noted that the other CMC Mrs M had representing her had 
not charged her a fee for any work it did in relation to this lender. Our investigator said The 
Protection Specialist had received a letter of authority from Mrs M, and completed work on 
her behalf. She noted the PPI claim was successful  and therefore the relevant fee was 
due. 
Mrs M disagreed. She said she hadnt realised she couldnt be misrepresented by two CMCs 
 and remained of the opinion she was mis-led into instructing The Protection Specialist. 
She said the notes The Protection Specialist had were a direct contradiction to her 
recollections of the phone conversation she had it with  and she was unhappy there was no 
telephone call recording from the time the conversation occurred.Because Mrs M disagreed her complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Mrs M has said she let The Protection Specialist know she was being represented 
elsewhere for this claim, when she first spoke to it. The Protection Specialist has said Mrs M 
did tell it of another CMC, but not in relation to a PPI mis-sale claim with this lender. 
Therefore, the information provided by both parties is contradictory on this point.
I havent received a recording of the phone call had at the time  because there isnt one. 
So, Im never going to know what was said by either party during at this time.
In situations like this, I need to review the information thats available, and make a decision 
on what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint, in the particular 
circumstances. And in this complaint, I think its fair and reasonable for The Protection 
Specialist to note its fee is due from Mrs M.
Regardless of what was said in the above-mentioned call, Ive seen the letter of authority 
and terms and conditions provided by The Protection Specialist to Mrs M before she 
engaged The Protection Specialists services. 
The terms and conditions of the agreement highlight that on signing the letter of authority the 
agreement is binding. They explain that for a successful mis-sale claim, the fee will become 
due to The Protection Specialist. And that Mrs M shouldnt liaise with other parties in relation 
to the claim. So, I think the terms and conditions of the agreement were made clear to Mrs 
M. And they do highlight that if Mrs M had any questions in relation to the terms, to call The 
Protection Specialist to ask these.
Mrs M didnt raise any questions, signed this letter of authority and returned it. The letter of 
authority noted that the terms and conditions had been read, and that Mrs M would be 
represented by The Protection Specialist for this claim.
Mrs M has said she didnt read the terms and conditions of the agreement  because of the 
conversation she had on the phone. But I dont think that means I can say The Protection 
Specialist acted unfairly. I dont have any firm evidence Mrs M was given incorrect 
information on the phone. And The Protection Specialist did supply Mrs M with all of the 
information she needed to understand the terms of the agreement she was signing up to. It 
is Mrs Ms responsibility to ensure she reads and fully understands what she is agreeing to, 
before signing up to be represented in this way. 
Following signing and returning this form The Protection Specialist did contact the lender, 
and correspond with it and Mrs M. It obtained a PPI questionnaire from Mrs M, and provided 
these answers to the lender. Whilst Mrs M did provide some information to the lender directly 
 this being proof of her name change, The Protection Specialist also took action to do this 
too. And raising the PPI mis-sale claim did lead to Mrs M receiving a refund of the PPI. So, 
Im satisfied that there was work carried out by The Protection Specialist, and this assisted in 
the refund Mrs M received. So, as per the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms agreement, the 
success fee is due.I know Mrs M is concerned two CMCs were engaged in work in relation to this claim. But its 
my understanding that the other CMC has not charged Mrs M a fee for any work it did, when 
The Protection Specialist let it know it had been involved. So, Mrs M hasnt had to pay two 
fees for work carried out on her behalf. Just one fee for the work completed, leading to the 
successful claim.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
The Protection Specialist Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman