DRN-4406287
The complaint
Dr R and Mrs R are unhappy with the exchange rate applied by HSBC UK Bank Plc when 
they sent euros to their current account.
What happened
Earlier this year, Dr R and Mrs R used a notary to send €26,826.29 to their current account. 
They explained that at the same time, their relative, who Ill refer to as Mr R, also sent an 
identical amount to his own account with HSBC.
Dr R and Mrs R explained that the internationally published exchange rate on the day was 
just under €1.13 to £1. But HSBC applied a rate of €1.15 which they say caused them and 
Mr R a financial loss of around £500. 
Before making the transfer, Dr R and Mrs R say they asked HSBC whether there were any 
fees to pay, and they were informed the cost was £5. They say Mr R was told there were no 
fees to pay. 
Dr R and Mrs R say that when they spoke to HSBC, they were given conflicting information. 
They say that initially they were told that the funds were already converted by the sending 
bank to pounds before they were received into the account. They were later sent a letter 
informing them that the funds were received in euros. 
HSBC said that theyve followed the correct conversion process and didnt agree to cover 
the financial loss Dr R and Mrs R had calculated. They explained that they use the HSBC 
exchange rate applicable at the time of receiving the incoming payment which is outlined 
within the terms and conditions of the account.  
They explained they dont use the rates advertised elsewhere. The HSBC exchange rates 
were derived from a live interbank market rate using the mid-rate, which is the average 
between the sell and buy rates with their margins applied. They explained they dont advise 
customers what their margins are, but they include it within the rate they advertise. 
Dr R and Mrs R told HSBC they remained unsatisfied with their response. They said that 
HSBC has given Mr R over £500 compensation, following his complaint for the exact same 
situation. HSBC said they wouldnt consider the circumstances of another customer when 
reviewing Dr R and Mrs Rs complaint. They said that they hadnt identified any error on their 
part, so they wouldnt agree to pay any compensation.
Unhappy with this, Dr R and Mrs R referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator 
said he was satisfied HSBC had applied their exchange rates to the funds received into the 
account fairly. Although the rate wasnt as competitive, our investigator thought HSBC had 
the right to determine their own exchange rate. 
Our investigator also explained that while Mr R received a different resolution, our service 
can only look at whether HSBC treated Dr R and Mrs R fairly and cant consider their actions 
on other cases. He didnt think the customer service issues meant that HSBC should pay 
compensation. Dr R and Mrs R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Dr R and Mrs Rs account explains that payments received into 
the account in foreign currency will be available to use right after HSBC converts it into 
pounds sterling using the HSBC Exchange Rate at the time the payment is received. It also 
sets out that there arent any charges to receive money into the account in euros from the 
UK or EEA.
Based on this, Im satisfied HSBC werent obliged to apply the more favourable exchange 
rates that Dr R and Mrs R had seen. Under the terms and conditions of the account, HSBC 
are entitled to apply their own exchange rate to convert the euros into pounds at the time the 
payment was received. So, I cant agree theyve treated Dr R and Mrs R unfairly here. It 
follows, I dont think HSBC are liable for the financial loss Dr R and Mrs R have claimed.
I appreciate Dr R and Mrs R say they were told that theyd be charged £5. However, as per 
the terms and conditions, HSBC dont apply a charge to pay euros into their account. I can 
see from the Advice of Sepa Credit sent to Dr R and Mrs R and from HSBCs records that 
there were no charges applied to the transaction. Im satisfied Dr R and Mrs R havent been 
financially disadvantaged by being provided with incorrect information when they were told 
theyd be charged £5.
I accept Dr R and Mrs R wouldve been caused some frustration and annoyance by HSBC 
giving them given inconsistent information on whether the funds were received in euros. But 
I can see HSBC confirmed the correct information shortly after the transaction. The Advice 
of Sepa Credit of 3 March 2023, sets out that the funds were received in euros and then 
converted to pounds as well as the exchange rate that applied. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think the impact on Dr R and Mrs R was significant 
enough to award compensation. 
I know it must be disappointing for Dr R and Mrs R that HSBC compensated Mr R for the 
same issue. However, this alone isnt enough reason for me to say HSBC should also 
compensate them. When reaching my decision, I can only consider the individual 
circumstances of Dr R and Mrs Rs complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied HSBC have 
treated them fairly, so I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ash WeedonOmbudsman