DRN-3074204
The complaint
Mr Ss representatives, Mr and Mrs S (his parents), complain on his behalf about the service 
he received from The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited, referred to as the 
business. 
What happened
In August 2003, Mr Ss parents took out a Personal Investment Plan (PIP)  in his fathers 
name  for him, when he turned 21 years of age. 
Mr Ss parents say that the PIP wasnt administered as planned/intended, and in March 
2017, it was transferred to Mr Ss sole name when he was 16 years of age. The business 
says that the plan didnt specify when it should transfer the PIP to Mr S, so the business 
transferred it on his sixteenth birthday. 
Mr Ss parents say that the business didnt notify Mr S and/or them of this until March 2020, 
almost three years later, when it wrote to them to notify them of this change. 
Mr Ss parents also say that prior to this in 2019, they notified the business of an address 
change, but the business continued to write to their old address. 
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said: 
Mr Ss parents wouldve received the policy documentation when they took out the 
PIP. If the product didnt meet their requirements, they had 14 days to cancel it. 
There was no reason for the business to think that the plan should be transferred at 
21, and because there were no clear instructions, it transferred the PIP to Mr S when 
he was 16.   
It accepts that writing to Mr Ss parents in March 2020, about the change that 
happened in March 2017, was an oversight.    
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
There was nothing to say that the PIP would be transferred to Mr S at 16 years of 
age, so its not an issue that Mr Ss parents couldve raised at the time. 
In any case, Mr Ss parents werent notified of the transfer until almost three years 
after it happened. But it wasnt unreasonable for them to have been notified at the 
time so that they mightve taken steps to address the issue.  
Despite the above, statements were still addressed to Mr Ss father even though the 
plan belonged to Mr S.  
It was a combination of these errors that led to Mr Ss PIP being in his name, without 
him knowing, and his statements continuing to be sent to his father. 
There was nothing within the paperwork to say that the PIP would transfer to Mr S 
when he turned 16. 
He cant award Mr Ss parents (as his representatives) any compensation for distress 
and inconvenience caused. But he feels that Mr S wouldve been caused distress 
and inconvenience by the businesss actions and his parents distress. So, in the 
circumstances the business should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.     
The business didnt respond to the investigators view despite being asked to do so. It also 
hasnt provided any argument against an award of £150.
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I dont think it 
behaved reasonably. 
Before I explain why, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise Mr Ss 
strength of feeling about this matter. 
Mrs Ss parents have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr S wont take the fact my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by them and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think that in 2017, the PIP was prematurely 
transferred to Mr S when he was only 16 years of age, two years before he was legally an 
adult, and five years before it was due to be transferred based on what his parents say. 
In other words, it seems the transfer wasnt in line with the plans and wishes of his parents 
who took out the PIP for him, when he was a child, to give to him when he turned 21 years of 
age.  
I note the business says that theres no record of when the PIP was to be transferred to Mr 
S, however that theres no dispute that the end purpose was to transfer to Mr S. So, in the 
circumstances, I dont get why this key element  of when and at what age the PIP should 
be transferred  wasnt clarified by the business at the outset. Because this fundamental 
issue wasnt addressed by the business the PIP was transferred into Mr Ss name when he 
was 16 years of age, five years before it was due to happen, and without him (or his parents) 
being informed for another three years this had been done. Mr S was 19 years of age in 
2020, when he discovered the truth about what happened.   I note that Mrs Ss parents want the PIP placed back into Mr Ss fathers name. But I dont 
think its possible for the business to automatically reverse the process, because the PIP 
legally belongs to Mr S. However, Mr S is free to do what he wants with it. 
I understand that Mr Ss parents cant legally stop him from encashing the PIP and spending 
the money on whatever he wants. I think the possibility of him doing so is likely to have 
caused some tension within the family, resulting in distress for Mr S.     
I note that the business also continued to send statements to Mr Ss father, even though the 
PIP legally belonged to Mr S. This will have further complicated matters, and caused distress 
and inconvenience to Mr S. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr S wouldnt have been aware of the error until recently it will no 
doubt have still caused distress receiving his parents surprise gift and then to be made 
aware he wasnt meant to receive this until he was older.  
Im mindful that the business accepts that it also made an error by not updating Mr Ss 
parents/his address. This issue will have probably prevented the truth about legal ownership 
coming out sooner. 
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr Ss parents may have suffered distress and inconvenience 
dealing with this issue  Im mindful of what they say about service they received pursuing 
this complaint  I agree with the investigator about any compensation regarding them. 
Under the rules governing our service, in this instance Mr Ss parents (as representatives) 
arent entitled to any compensation for distress and inconvenience. I can only tell a business 
to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience experienced by its customer, not by a 
third party who represents the customer.  
For the reasons explained above, I think the businesss errors will have caused Mr S distress 
and inconvenience. In the circumstances the business should pay him £150 compensation, 
for this.  
Also, as the business hasnt responded to the investigators view and provided any argument 
against an award of £150, its reasonable to award this amount.
Putting things right
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay Mr S £150 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should pay Mr S redress as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman