DRN-3266638
The complaint
Mr S complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) voided his home insurance policy and 
refused to pay his claim.
Mr S is represented by Mrs B, but for simplicity I shall just refer to Mr S.
What happened
In October 2016, Mr S took out a Home insurance policy with QIC through a price 
comparison site. He said that £10,000 would be sufficient to cover all valuables in the 
property and that no individual item was worth more than £2,000. The policy then renewed 
each year on the same basis. 
In February 2021, Mr S was unfortunately the victim of a burglary and had a number of items 
of jewellery stolen. Due to the nature of the claim, QIC appointed a jewellery specialist to 
complete a theft report on Mr S behalf, based on information he provided. The specialist 
said that there was over £106,000 worth of jewellery stolen and many items were valued at 
over £2000. 
As this information was different to what Mr S had declared on the policy application and 
subsequent renewals, QIC said there had been a misrepresentation. It said, had it been 
aware of the true cover needed, it would not have been able to offer a quotation, as it falls 
outside of its acceptance criteria. It therefore considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to void the policy and return the premiums, which it did.
Mr S was unhappy with this. He accepted the valuables came to more than £10,000 but said 
he was only expecting the £10,000 he thought he was covered for. He also disputed the 
amount that the specialist had calculated, suggesting the value was approximately £35,000. 
He was also unhappy with the customer service that had been provided, including the delay 
in getting copies of the policy document to him. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator agreed there had been a 
misrepresentation and didnt uphold the complaint. He however agreed that the service had 
been poor but thought that the £20 voucher given was sufficient to rectify the situation.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, he believes he should still be entitled to the £10,000 
cover and therefore asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. It has therefore been 
passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr S feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything he has
said, but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No
discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said £10,000 was enough to cover all valuables in his home and that none of the items were 
worth more than £2,000 each. 
When Mr S initially applied for the policy, he was asked to answer several questions to help 
determine the level of cover needed. Ive seen a copy of the questions and answers 
document and can see amongst other questions, Mr S was asked:
Is a total of £10,000 enough to cover all valuables worth less than £2,000 each inside
your home? To which he answered yes, and:
Do you have any valuables or personal items worth over £2,000 each? (excluding 
bicycles) To which he answered no
I believe the questions are clear and specific and dont leave much room for 
misinterpretation. 
30 days before renewal each year, QIC sent Mr S his policy renewal documents, including a 
copy of the questions and answers document that QIC use to base its renewal decision on. 
Ive seen a copy of the latest renewal documents and can see that it clearly states that Mr S 
needed to review the documents, including the questions and answers and confirm all was 
correct or inform it if any of the information has changed. Mr S contacted QIC by phone to 
complete the renewal process and confirmed no changes were needed. 
Mr S has said he wasnt aware of the value of the jewellery and he thought that £10,000 
would be enough to cover all the valuables. However, I must take into account that CIDRA 
determines that it is the policy holders responsibility to ensure all information given to the 
insurer is correct. 
As well as this, the policy terms and conditions state:
You must take care when answering any questions we ask, and make sure that all
the information you provide is accurate and complete. When you provide information
about other people insured under this policy, it is your responsibility to check that the
information you provide is accurate.
I can also see in the policy wording document, under the renewals section, it states:We strongly advise you to review your policy each year to make sure you have suitable 
cover in place.
The value of some of your personal belongings and valuables is likely to vary over time. We 
recommend that you review the valuation of any specific items regularly (at least every two 
years) and get professional advice if necessary. Please let us know if the value of any of 
these items changes, otherwise you may find yourself overinsured or underinsured.
From the information provided by QIC, I can see that once the policy was confirmed, Mr S 
had access to his new policy documents online and an email was sent to him to remind him 
of the importance of reviewing it. I therefore think it was his responsibility to do so.
As the items stolen were valued higher than the sum insured, I agree that Mr S failed to take 
reasonable care answering these questions. 
QIC has provided evidence of a pre-set underwriting acceptance criteria. It can provide 
cover for properties with a maximum overall valuables limit of £20,000. Anything beyond this 
is outside of its acceptance criteria and would not be accepted. Had Mr S correctly declared 
the risk to QIC, it would not have offered a quotation. This means Im satisfied Mr S 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
QIC has said Mr S misrepresentation was careless, because the values given were 
incorrect. Having looked at all of the information myself, I agree with this. I can see that Mr S 
didnt provide QIC with accurate information and if he had, it wouldnt have been able to offer 
him cover. As a result, Id expect QIC to act as if the policy was never in place and return 
Mr S premiums from when it was last renewed. QIC have acted in line with CIDRA by doing 
this.
Mr S has suggested that the value of the items stolen were closer to £35,000, however, as 
mentioned above, its the responsibility of the policy holder to give accurate information. 
Even if the true value was closer to £35,000, the answers given in the renewal would still 
have constituted a qualifying misrepresentation and QIC would have still been fair in voiding 
the policy.
Ive also looked at the customer service issues that Mr S has mentioned and the fact that 
QIC failed to send Mr S a copy of the policy documents promptly once requested, after the 
policy had been voided. I agree the customer service was not what Id expect, particularly at 
an already stressful time for Mr S. I was pleased to see that QIC apologised and offered 
Mr S a £20 voucher as compensation for their failings. While this is on the lower side of what 
I would deem acceptable, I still consider it fair so wont be asking them to do anything 
further.
While I can fully understand why Mr S would be unhappy, I think QICs dealings with this 
matter have been fair and reasonable.
.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman