DRN-3150762
The complaint
Mr A complains that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (trading as GoSkippy)
mishandled a motor insurance policy.
What happened
 In December 2019, Mr A had a coupe sports utility vehicle (SUV). For the year from 19
December 2019, Mr A insured that vehicle through GoSkippy, which acted as an
intermediary between him and an insurance company. In July 2020, Mr A changed the
vehicle on the policy for a large SUV.
In November 2020, GoSkippy sent Mr A documents for the renewal of the policy for the next
year with the same insurance company. But in December 2020, GoSkippy said it couldnt do
such a renewal. Mr A complained to GoSkippy about that. It acknowledged his complaint on
16 December 2020.
By a final response dated 9 February 2021, GoSkippy turned down Mr As complaint. It said
the insurance company had changed its criteria so that it would no longer insure Mr As
vehicle. Mr A brought his complaint to us later in February.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator treated the complaint as a complaint against the insurance company. He
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the insurance
company did have the right not to continue with the renewal.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A  
and to GoSkippy on 6 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
I inferred that GoSkippy knew that the insurance company wouldnt renew the policy
for Mr As vehicle at the price it had quoted or at all.
Whilst I accepted that GoSkippy was bound by what the insurance company had
decided  I considered that the communication from GoSkippy was contradictory, 
unclear and confusing.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from GoSkippy, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Somerset Bridge Insurance Services 
Limited (trading as GoSkippy) to pay Mr A £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr A hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
GoSkippy disagrees with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
This case has been incorrectly logged against Somerset Bridge Insurance Services 
Limited (SBISL) when it should be logged against another group company.
SBISL never issued a final response letter (FRL), therefore the case cannot be 
against SBISL and if the case is to be made against SBISL, it wants the opportunity 
to issue an FRL in line with the FCA and FOS rules.
Additionally, the inferences made are incorrect, it was unaware at any point of the 
underwriters refusal to reinsure and the letter and phrases that are referred to are 
stock letters that are sent out as chasers to every customer at that stage in the 
policy. As such, the assumption that it knew and did nothing is incorrect. It acted 
when aware, which is all that can be asked of it.
As a broker it is beholden to its panel of underwriters, if they cant supply a price then 
we cannot do anything.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The renewal letter in November 2020 was from Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited 
(trading as GoSkippy). It quoted a price of £293.88. It included the following:
If nothing needs updating, you dont need to do anything. If we havent heard
from you 2 working days prior to the renewal date, your policy will be renewed
automatically and full payment taken from your credit/debit card.
I accept that Mr A had nothing to update. So the letter said he didnt need to do anything.
But GoSkippy also sent an email. It said that  in order to renew  Mr A had to click on a link
or telephone or text. So that contradicted the renewal letter.
At the end of November, GoSkippy sent a text. It said the policy would renew automatically
but Mr A could renew early by clicking the link in the renewal letter. Again, that contradicted
the renewal letter.
GoSkippy wrote letters dated 3 and 10 December. Each included the following:
We have been trying to contact you as we have received some new insurance rates
and therefore would like to check that we have offered you our most competitive
price.
On balance I accept GoSkippys recent statement that it didnt know at that time that the 
insurance company wouldnt renew the policy for Mr As vehicle at the price it had quoted or 
at all. But GoSkippy has also said its letters were standard letters. So I accept Mr As 
statement that he hadnt received contact from GoSkippy as stated in the letters .
By emails dated 3 and 10 December, GoSkippy reminded Mr A that he needed to pay for the
renewal. And on 11 December, GoSkippy sent Mr A a text indicating that the renewal was
going ahead automatically. That was incorrect.
GoSkippy wrote a letter dated 15 December 2020 including the following:
due for renewal on 19/12/2020.We will not be automatically renewing your Private Car policy following a recent
amendment, which has resulted in a new renewal price for you.
We will send you an amended renewal invitation but please note we will not be
automatically continuing this cover. Please contact us...
And GoSkippy sent an email dated 15 December including the following:
Thank you for contacting us regarding the renewal of your policy.
Please accept this email as confirmation that the continuous payment method has
been removed from the renewal process for your [vehicle] which is due for renewal
on 18/12/2020.
As we are no longer automatically renewing your policy via the continuous payment
method, your policy will expire. Please ensure you have alternative cover in place
after 18/12/2020.
As the policy was due to expire in a few says time, I consider that GoSkippy ought 
reasonably to have known that the insurance company wouldnt renew the policy for the 
vehicle. But GoSkippy was far from transparent in explaining that to Mr A. 
GoSkippy has also said its letters were standard letters. So I accept Mr As statement that he 
hadnt received contact from GoSkippy as stated in the email.
At that point, Mr A contacted GoSkippy. And it was only then that GoSkippy explained the
situation.
Overall, - whilst I accept that GoSkippy was bound by what the insurance company had
decided  I consider that the communication from GoSkippy was contradictory, unclear and
confusing.
Mr As complaint was about a renewal that Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited 
(trading as GoSkippy) was dealing with. The email dated 16 December 2020 acknowledging 
Mr As complaint had an email footer included the following:
This email is sent on behalf of the company named in the above email signature, 
which is part of the Somerset Bridge Group and is a limited company registered in 
England and Wales.
The Somerset Bridge Group contains the following entities:
[another group company]
Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited, company number: 06334001
[other group companies]
But the email of 16 December 2020 was signed simply Somerset Bridge without identifying 
a limited company.
The final response was signed by a director of another group company named in that email 
footer. I find it fair to say that this was on behalf of Somerset Bridge Insurance Services 
Limited (trading as GoSkippy).
Mr A has said that he found alternative cover at a cost of £378.64.That was more than the
price GoSkippy had quoted in November. But  as GoSkippy was bound by what the
insurance company had decided  I dont hold GoSkippy responsible for causing Mr A a
financial loss.
However, the shortcomings in its communication mustve caused Mr A distress and
inconvenience when he belatedly found out the situation and had little time to sort it out.  Putting things right
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct GoSkippy to pay Mr A £100.00 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (trading as GoSkippy) to pay Mr A 
£100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman