DRN-3583326
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Honeycomb Finance Limited (Honeycomb) havent fairly or 
reasonably dealt with claims she made under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare she and her husband were sold. 
Mrs R is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around June 2018, Mrs R and her husband attended a sales presentation given by a 
company Ill call A where they discussed purchasing membership of the product in 
question. 
Following the presentation, Mrs R and her husband agreed to purchase a Level One 
membership in a timeshare scheme operated by A with an allocation of 4,000 credits. The 
purchase price of £11,400 was financed through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement from 
Honeycomb in Mrs Rs sole name.
For simplicity and where relevant, because the loan is in Mrs Rs sole name, I shall refer to 
any comments and evidence provided by Mrs R and/or her husband as being provided by 
Mrs R.
In December 2019, the CMC submitted a claim to Honeycomb on Mrs Rs behalf under 
sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The CMC said that, during the sales meeting in June 
2018, A made a number of representations about the membership benefits and associated 
finance which turned out not to be true. And it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mrs R to purchase the timeshare scheme membership.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
Mrs R didnt realise she had purchased a floating weeks timeshare rather than a 
specified property and week  such a timeshare having been found to be null and 
void; 
the booking of holidays under the scheme would be a simple task but this was not 
the case, particularly during her preferred holiday periods; 
Mrs R didnt realise large payments towards maintenance fees would continually rise 
each year; and
the interest rate on the Honeycomb loan was extortionate resulting in financial 
detriment and was an Unfair Term under the Consumer Contract Regulations 1999.
The CMC have suggested that Mrs R suffered similar detriment to that outlined in a previous 
Court Tribunal ruling which included various allegations. However, I cant see that the CMC 
specifically highlighted to Honeycomb which of these are alleged in Mrs Rs case. 
The CMC also suggested that the Timeshare agreement is null and void due to a breach of 
statute and regulations. Specifically due to a European directive, Spanish legislation, a 
decision from the Spanish Supreme Court and unfair terms under the Consumer Contract 
Regulations 1999.
Finally, the CMC also suggested the loan agreement is null and void due to breaches of 
various aspects of the CCA.
Honeycomb issued a final response and explained they didnt agree with the allegation that 
the membership scheme and benefits had been misrepresented to Mrs R. Or that there was 
any other reason for the claim to be upheld.
Having referred Mrs Rs complaint to this service, one of our investigators looked into what 
had happened. Having considered all the information and evidence provided, our 
investigator didnt think A had misrepresented the timeshare membership scheme benefits to 
Mrs R and found no other reason to uphold her complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators view. In response, they referenced various laws 
and regulations applicable to timeshare products. They also highlighted what they believe to 
have been breaches of those regulations they say applied to the purchase agreement 
entered into by Mrs R. These included:
a failure to provide an accurate description of the immovable property; 
a failure to detail an exact period within which the (membership) rightmay be 
exercised and, if necessary, its duration;
where that information wasnt provided at the time of the sale, the withdrawal period 
available to Mrs R would be three months and 14 days after the start date; and
payment shouldnt have been made and/or accepted before the end of the 
withdrawal period 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to consider relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the CCA. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mrs 
R paid for the timeshare membership with a restricted use fixed sum loan agreement, and it 
isnt in dispute that sections 75 applies here. So, this means that Mrs R is afforded the 
protection offered to borrowers like her under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken 
this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mrs R and Honeycomb 
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And 
because the timeshare purchase agreement was funded under the credit agreement, it is 
deemed to be a related agreement. And Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mrs 
R and A, as the vendor/supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by A as an agent of 
Honeycomb. Only a court has the power to make a determination under section 140A. But 
as its relevant law, I will consider it when deciding what is fair and reasonable.
What happened?
Its important to recognise that where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or 
contradictory, my decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, 
means Ive based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the 
evidence thats available from the time and the wider circumstances.Section 75 - Misrepresentation
In her testimony, Mrs R suggests she only found out shed in fact bought into a timeshare 
rather than an exclusive holiday club more recently. This appears to differ from the CMCs 
explanation of Mrs Rs complaint. The claim they submitted to Honeycomb suggested that 
Mrs R was aware shed entered into a timeshare agreement, but she thought this related to 
a specified apartment for a fixed week in the year. They say she subsequently discovered 
the agreement was for a floating weeks timeshare.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Honeycomb. 
These include the timeshare application Mrs R completed, the Standard Information Form, 
the Membership Club Rules and also the Membership Certificate, issued to Mrs R by A. 
These documents set out key information about the membership purchased, the credits 
allocated and how these could be used against accommodation and experiences available 
from A. Honeycomb have told this service these formed part of the sales process and that a 
representative of A wouldve discussed them with Mrs R, explaining any benefits, prior to 
them agreeing to the purchase.
The membership application appears to have been signed by both Mr and Mrs R confirming 
that they would receive 4,000 credits under As Level 1 membership. The terms and 
conditions included with the application include:
1. I/we apply to purchase from the Vendor Credits to use each year in the Club and/or 
to use the Exchange
2. The Credits purchased grant me the right of occupation or use of a unit in each Use 
Year
The Standard Information Form, also signed by both Mr and Mrs R, describes the nature and 
content of the rights under the agreement. It says, You are purchasing Credits which can be 
exchanged for rights of occupation and use in a unit of accommodationat various locations 
each Use Year in Malta and the UK and other locations, all forming part of theCredits 
Membership Club. The CMC have suggested a Key Information document wasnt 
received by Mr and Mrs R. Im not aware that such a document exists or is required and 
believe this reference may, in fact, refer to the Standard Information Form. But as this 
appears to have been signed by both Mr and Mrs R, this suggests to me it was received.
The Membership Club Rules defines Credits as, the number of credits as set out in the 
Credits Usage Tablefor each accommodation or lifestyle product at each location.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance these 
documents did form part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through them during the sales meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
Mrs Rs version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
While I acknowledge Mrs Rs own recollections, I think its clear that the membership 
described to her (and ultimately purchased) provided credits to be used against 
accommodation and experiences from a pool available, rather than one specific named 
property or experience as the CMC have suggested. 
Further, Im not persuaded that the product described in the documentation differs materially 
to what Mrs R refers to as an exclusive holiday club. Particularly as the product gives Mrs 
R access to holidays, accommodation and experiences from a pool of locations and resorts 
offered by A rather than one particular location. 
Mrs R also says she was told that by purchasing her membership and the associated credits 
on the day of the sales presentation, she would be able to sell them back to A after five 
years at a profit. Following our investigators view, the CMC also referenced this, and said A 
had told Mrs R that the timeshare had an inherent value and would be a good way to invest.Having considered all the documentation available, Ive not been able to find anything that 
suggests either expressly or implied that the product purchased was sold as any form of 
investment. 
I accept that Mrs Rs understanding of what they were sold may differ from what the relevant 
paperwork suggests. But, based on everything thats been said and/or provided so far, while 
I certainly dont doubt the honesty of her recollections, Ive not found anything that 
persuades me that there were one or more representations that were factually untrue 
Section 140A  Unfair Relationship
Difficulty booking preferred holiday periods
Mrs R says that shes experienced problems securing bookings on her preferred dates. The 
documentation issued by A does specify that Reservations are on a first come first served 
basis and the Booking window opens every January for the following 36 months.
I can find no evidence (written or otherwise) that A made any assurances that Mrs R would 
be guaranteed to secure her preferred accommodation and dates at any time. Further, it 
appears the documentation provided to Mrs R at the point of sale explains that bookings are 
subject to availability.  So, while I accept Mrs R may have been frustrated at not being able 
to immediately secure her preferred booking(s), I think its clear that availability was likely to 
be limited. Particularly where members seek to make bookings at peak times. 
Having considered this aspect carefully, I cant reasonably say this meant that the contract 
or relationship was unfair.
Maintenance Fees
Mrs R says she didnt realise these would be payable and subsequently increase every year. 
The CMC believes this makes the contract unfair.
The documentation Ive considered makes no mention of maintenance fees. However, the 
Standard Information Form that Mrs R signed does refer to An Annual Membership 
Renewal Fee payable. 
The documentation provided to Mrs R at the point of sale does cover any ongoing fees, 
including the membership renewal charges. Having considered these, Im not persuaded 
that the fee structure stated appears unreasonable. So, I dont believe this is likely to have 
led to any unfairness in the contract here.
Interest rate applied to the loan
The CMC believe the interest rate charged under the loan agreement was unfair relative to 
the Bank of England Base Rate at the time. 
Ive carefully considered the rate that applied in this case and whether it feels fair in all the 
circumstances. The documentation completed at the time of the sale provided various loan 
options with different providers, including Honeycomb. Each of the available options were 
clear about the length of each possible agreement together with the interest rate(s) that 
applied. The rate that applied to the loan chosen by Mrs R appears to be comparable with 
the other options available and I dont believe was unreasonable. 
Mrs R accepted the loan, and the loan agreement clearly set out the annual rate of interest 
(and the APR). So, Im not persuaded that the interest rate payable for the loan 
demonstrates that Mrs Hs relationship with Honeycomb was likely to be unfair
Is the timeshare agreement null and void?
The CMC suggest that as a floating week agreement, the timeshare agreement in question 
is illegal, such that Mrs R is entitled to rescind the credit agreement. 
The CMC have asked me to consider an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a 
Spanish court judgment. They say that, taken together, they demonstrate that a timeshare that provides for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, 
is a voidable agreement. Ive considered this argument. But I cant see that Mrs Rs 
timeshare agreement is likely to be voidable  which in any event, is a decision only a court 
can make
The timeshare agreement states that it is governed by English Law, not Spanish law. So, I 
dont think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly to the question as to whether the 
contract is voidable under English law. 
Further, the EU Directive Ive been asked to consider was the 1994 Directive 94/47/EC. That 
was enacted into English law in the Timeshare Regulations 1997 and amended the 
Timeshare Act 1992. Im not aware that any of those provisions prohibited the sale of 
timeshares like the one bought by Mrs R. And as Mrs R entered into the contract in 2018, its 
actually the Timeshare Regulations 2010 that apply here. Points based timeshares fall within 
the definition of a timeshare contract under those current regulations. So, Im satisfied that 
this type of timeshare could be sold under English law at the time of Mrs Rs sale. 
The CMC suggest the timeshare agreement further breached the Timeshare Regulations in 
2010 in that that they didnt specifically provide an accurate description of the immovable 
property together with an exact period within which the (membership) rightmay be 
exercised and, if necessary, its duration. And as that information wasnt included or provided 
at the point of sale, they say the regulations state that the withdrawal period should be 
extended from 14 days to three months and 14 days. They also point out that the regulations 
say no payment shouldve been made or accepted by A before that withdrawal period had 
expired. 
The 2010 Regulations include and define the Key information that should be provided before 
any contract or agreement is entered into. Part 3 of the Regulations stipulates where the 
contract concerns a specific immovable property, an accurate and detailed description of 
that property and its location should be included. 
Ive already explained that the timeshare agreement purchased by Mrs R provided credits to 
be used to acquire permitted holidays and experiences booked from a pool provided by A. 
The properties and experiences could also vary in terms of when and where they were taken 
subject to availability  not a specific defined property. I dont agree that the agreement 
related to a specific immovable property. So, the description above wouldnt apply.
Part 3 goes on to say, where the contract concerns a number of properties (multi resorts), 
an appropriate description of the properties and their location; where the contract concerns 
accommodation other than immovable property, an appropriate description of the 
accommodation and the facilities.
I think the Standard Information Form, from the time of the sale, provides the required 
information about properties and experiences available for Mrs R to access with her points. 
So, based upon the evidence Ive seen, I dont believe the timeshare agreement is likely to 
have breached the Timeshare Regulations 2010 for the reasons the CMC give.  
And because I dont think the timeshare agreement failed to comply with the Timeshare 
Regulations 2010, I dont agree that the withdrawal period shouldve been extended to three 
months and 14 days  or that payment was taken by A during the withdrawal period.
Summary
Ive considered all the points made by Mrs R and the CMC very carefully. In doing so, Im not 
persuaded that the timeshare agreement was misrepresented in any way or otherwise failed 
to comply with the relevant regulations and legislation at the time to such a degree that it 
created an unfair relationship under S140A of the CCA. So, while I realise Mrs R will be 
disappointed, I havent found any reason to uphold her complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman