DRN-3074197
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that a business since acquired by Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a 
pair of term assurance policies alongside a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C met with Santander in 2006 to discuss a mortgage application for a flat they 
were purchasing. As part of this application, the bank recommended they purchase a pair of 
term assurance policies. 
Mr C was sold a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy that would cover the outstanding 
balance of the couples mortgage in the event he passed away. Mrs C was sold a level term 
assurance (LTA) policy that would pay out a fixed sum in the event she passed away. 
In 2020, Mr and Mrs C complained about the policies theyd been sold. They said theyd not 
known what the policies had been for and wouldnt have knowingly agreed to purchase them 
as they already had some cover in place. They also said the policies had been sold as a 
bundle along with the mortgage and theyd not been given the option to decline the 
insurance. 
Santander responded to their complaint to say itd been made too late, outside of the time 
limits which apply. The bank issued a follow up response which insisted the policies had 
been fairly sold. 
Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to our service. Santander objected to our service 
considering the complaint, as it still felt itd been made too late. An ombudsman decided Mr 
and Mrs Cs complaint had been made in time, and therefore our service was able to 
consider the merits of their complaint. 
Following our ombudsmans decision, an investigator considered Mr and Mrs Cs concerns 
but didnt uphold them. As Mr and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators findings, the 
matters been referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2022. This is what I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion from our investigator. Its my view that 
this complaint should be partially upheld. I shall explain why. 
Mr and Mrs C have argued throughout their complaint that Santander didnt give them the 
opportunity to decline to purchase insurance. Theyve maintained that the products were all 
bundled together, and that the banks advisor gave them the impression that purchasing 
insurance was required in order to obtain their mortgage. 
As I understand it, the insurance Mr and Mrs C were sold wasnt a condition of their 
mortgage. And when dealing with its customers, Santanders required to communicate with 
them in a way thats clear, fair, and not misleading. So if the evidence persuaded me the 
banks advisor was likely to have misled Mr and Mrs C as to the optional nature of their 
insurance policies, I may well find that the banks treated them unfairly. 
I hope Mr and Mrs C will appreciate that I cant know exactly what they were told about their 
policies. Theres no verbatim record of what was said during their discussions with 
Santander. In these circumstances, mindful of what Mr and Mrs C recall being told, Ive 
looked at the evidence to decide whether, on balance, I think Santanders likely to have 
misled them when selling the insurance. 
From the documents available, its clear to me that this was an advised sale. I can see from 
the banks recommendation letter that its advisor clearly felt the couple had a need for the 
insurance that was on offer. Because of this, I have no difficulty accepting Santanders 
advisor will likely have told the couple they should purchase the insurance on offer. And that 
mindful of the potential consequences of not doing so, it would likely be in their best interests 
to do so. But this is not the same as telling the couple they had to purchase the insurance, 
and that their mortgage application would be unsuccessful without it. In my view, none of the 
documents submitted by either Santander or Mr and Mrs C give the reader the impression 
that term assurance is required in order to obtain the mortgage. Im therefore not persuaded 
Santanders likely to have misled the couple on this point. 
Mr and Mrs C have argued throughout their complaint that they had no need for the 
insurance Santander recommended to them. Mindful of this, Ive considered that when its 
advising on protection products, Santander must ensure any recommendations it makes are 
suitable for its customers needs. If the evidence here persuaded me the couple had no need 
for the insurance on offer, I may well conclude Santander should not have recommended it 
to them. 
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs C were married and had two dependent children. The 
sales paperwork confirms they held no existing protection policies, but Mr C did possess a 
death in service benefit from his employer. Mr C was earning around £3,000 per month, 
whilst Mrs C earnt £500 per month. It seems apparent that Mr Cs salary willve been 
responsible for funding the majority of the couples outgoings each month. 
In my view, Mr Cs circumstances demonstrate a clear need for the policy Santander sold 
him. Had he passed away during the term of their mortgage, Mrs C wouldve had to manage 
without around 85% of her typical household income. Shed have been left solely 
responsible for paying a mortgage which would initially cost around £800 per month along 
with the familys other regular outgoings. Mr Cs policy would guarantee that should the 
worst have happened, Mrs C and her children couldve benefitted substantially by removing 
the burden of repaying the couples mortgage. 
Mr C has said that as he possessed a death in service benefit from his employer, he didnt 
need the insurance. But I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Santander to conclude 
that he did. Workplace benefits couldve provided some financial support to Mrs C and his 
children in the event that Mr C had passed. But theres been no suggestion from Mr C that 
his workplace benefits would be sufficient to settle his mortgage entirely. And the mortgage 
hed applied for was a 20 year commitment. I dont think its unreasonable to speculate that a 
person might change their employment over the course of 20 years. So its my view that 
recommending a dedicated policy to Mr C which provided cover for the full duration of the 
mortgage, represents suitable advice on Santanders part. Mr Cs death in service benefit 
could then be put to use on the other expenses Mrs C wouldve had to bear in the 
unfortunate event of his passing. With that being said, the banks decision to recommend LTA cover to Mrs C is more difficult 
to understand. Ive reviewed the banks letter to Mr and Mrs C dated 12 May 2006 titled 
Your Protection Needs and Our Recommendations. Santanders recommendations and 
reasoning are outlined on this letter, and Ive summarised them below: 
1. Mr and Mrs C should purchase a joint life and critical illness DTA policy. 
Recommendation rejected due to cost and Mr and Mrs Cs desire to have separate 
policies. 
2. Mr and Mrs C should purchase a joint DTA policy. 
Recommendation rejected due to the couple wanting separate policies 
3. Mr C should purchase an LTA policy, with a sum assured of £217,000. 
Recommendation rejected due to cost. 
4. Mr C should purchase a DTA policy. 
Recommendation ultimately accepted. 
5. Mrs C should purchase an LTA policy, with a sum assured of £217,000. 
Recommendation ultimately accepted. 
Santander finished off these recommendations by saying: 
My recommendations mean that you may have more cover than you need at certain 
times throughout the policy term. I have taken the cost of the cover into account and 
these recommendations are the cheapest option to meet your needs as identified 
above. 
Santanders case notes from the time give more reasoning to support its recommendations. 
They say: 
l identified that you also need advice on your protection over and above the 
mortgage amount. I offered you a referral to discuss this which you declined You 
specifically wanted to have two separate plans. You [Mrs C] wanted a Level term 
Assurance Life policy as it offers a consistent level of protection and you also want 
this for portability purposes. [Mr C] I recommended that you also opt for a Level Term 
Assurance however as this option was not within budget for you, you wanted a 
decreasing term assurance that will decrease in line with your mortgage. This policy 
will take you into retirement [Mr C] you are sure the policy will still be affordable.
Having read the banks recommendations and its justifications for making them, I make the 
following observations: 
Whilst the couple mayve had protection needs over and above the mortgage they 
were taking on, they were not interested in discussing this with Santander at this 
time. And in order to consider these needs at all, Santanders advisor would need to 
have referred Mr and Mrs C. 
The couple appear to have expressed a preference for their own individual life 
policies, and not for a joint policy. 
The banks first instinct was to offer DTA cover to Mr and Mrs C. Beyond a mention 
of portability, theres no reasoning offered that would explain why its subsequent 
recommendation to Mrs C was for LTA cover. The cost of an LTA policy seems likely to exceed that of a DTA policy, given that Mr 
C rejected LTA cover in favour of DTA cover due to its price. 
The cost of the protection Santander was recommending seems to have been of 
some importance to Mr and Mrs C. They declined two recommendations as a result 
of the price of cover and look to have been trying to keep costs down. 
Santander acknowledges its recommendation will mean the couple have more 
insurance than theyve demonstrated a need for.   
Mindful of her circumstances, and particularly given that cost appears to have been a 
significant factor for the couple, Im not persuaded Santanders recommendation to Mrs C 
was suitable for her. 
Its not at all clear why Santander started its recommendations from a position of 
recommending DTA cover, before suddenly switching to LTA after the couple seemingly 
expressed a desire for their own policies. The banks notes talk about portability as being a 
factor. But those same notes also confirm the couple werent interested in discussing any 
protection needs beyond the mortgage they were applying for. Id therefore expect 
Santander to have limited its recommendations to the matter at hand. And beyond the first 
month of the mortgages 20 year term, recommending an LTA policy with a sum assured of 
£217,000 risked leaving Mrs C paying for more cover than her mortgage required. 
Something which Santanders recommendation seemingly acknowledges. 
Mindful that Mr and Mrs C were only willing to discuss their protection needs in relation to 
their new mortgage, none of the evidence persuades me Mrs C needed an LTA policy. 
Particularly not when cost appears to have been an important factor to the couple, and 
broadly, LTA is likely to cost more than DTA, as appears to have been the case for Mr C.  
Santander hasnt retained the quotes for all of the levels of cover Mr and Mrs C were offered 
as part of its advice. But the banks speculated in its recent submissions that due to Mrs Cs 
age at the time, it may well have been that LTA was no more expensive, and possibly even 
cheaper than a similar DTA policy. I accept this is a possibility. But looking at the advisors 
recommendations, theres no evidence Ive seen that a quote for DTA for just Mrs C was 
ever considered. Im therefore not persuaded Mrs C willve had the opportunity to weigh the 
costs and benefits of LTA against a similar DTA policy. Because of this, Im doubtful that 
Santanders advisors summary that these recommendations are the cheapest option to 
meet your needs as identified above is accurate. Im not persuaded this conclusion could 
reasonably be drawn without also considering a DTA quote for Mrs C.  
The evidence suggests cost was an important factor here, and that Mrs C didnt need the 
additional cover provided by LTA. So Im satisfied it wouldve been more suitable for her to 
have been recommended an individual DTA policy like Mr Cs, if this was a cheaper option. 
Im therefore persuaded that its more likely than not that Santanders advice to Mr and Mrs 
C was unsuitable. Below, Ive set out how Santander must now put matters right. 
Putting things right 
My aim is to put Mr and Mrs C as close to the position they would probably now be in if they 
hadnt been given unsuitable advice. But I must acknowledge the possibility that they could 
be no worse off as a result of Santanders advice. Ill explain. 
Mrs C was recommended an LTA policy that was unsuitable for her. It was more cover than 
she needed, and in the circumstances, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied a DTA 
policy wouldve been a more suitable recommendation. However, as Santanders pointed out, its not impossible that an LTA policy mayve cost the 
same, or less than a DTA policy. And if this turned out to be the case, then Mr and Mrs C 
wont have ended up paying more than they needed to as a result of Santanders advice. 
So to put things right, Santander must now do what the evidence persuades me it didnt do 
at the time. And that is to obtain a hypothetical quote, accurate to the price of cover at the 
time of the banks advice, for a single life DTA policy for Mrs C. It should compare this cost 
to the cost of the LTA policy it recommended to her. 
If the total cost of the LTA policy Santander actually sold Mrs C is less than or equal to the 
cost of the hypothetical DTA policy, then Mr and Mrs C are no worse off as a result of the 
banks advice. In this scenario, no redress is payable. 
If however the total cost of Mrs Cs LTA policy is greater than the cost of the hypothetical 
DTA policy, then Mr and Mrs C willve been paying for more cover than they needed to. In 
this scenario, Mr and Mrs C willve been increasingly out of pocket each month, by the 
difference between: 
A. The monthly cost of the unsuitable LTA policy Mrs C was actually sold
B. The monthly cost of a hypothetical DTA policy which wouldve been more suitable 
Santander must calculate the difference between these two figures for the duration of the 
policy thus far, mindful that Mr and Mrs C are still paying for it. Santander must then pay an 
amount equal to the difference between the two figures above to Mr and Mrs C. The bank 
must also calculate simple interest of 8% per year on the growing amount Mr and Mrs C 
willve been out of pocket by. If Santander decides that tax is payable on this interest, it 
should send a tax deduction certificate to Mr and Mrs C. They may then reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Looking ahead at the remaining term of Mrs Cs LTA policy, ideally Santander would be able 
to convert it to just providing DTA cover. However, as the bank does not own the policy, I 
believe this is likely to be impossible for it to achieve. Barring any submissions to the 
contrary, Im presently persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to require Santander to 
calculate the difference between any upcoming payments towards Mrs Cs existing LTA 
policy, and the hypothetical DTA policy for the remainder of the term, and pay this as a lump 
sum to Mr and Mrs C. This will ensure theyre able to keep suitable cover in place for the 
remainder of their mortgages term, without having to bear the unnecessary expense that 
Santanders advice has potentially left them with.
Santander responded to my provisional decision to accept my findings. It explained itd 
obtained a hypothetical quote for the cost of a DTA policy for Mrs C, and found this wouldve 
cost her £17.66 per month. This is less than the £23.40 shed been paying each month for 
LTA cover. The bank has said that, following Mr and Mrs Cs acceptance, it will proceed to 
calculate and pay redress in the manner described in my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs C also accepted my provisional decision. Theyve not sought to submit any 
further evidence. But they have asked whether my award will take account of inflation or the 
relative cost of living over the years theyve paid their premiums.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I will be partly upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint for the same reasons I 
outlined in my provisional decision.
Im not persuaded Santanders likely to have given Mr and Mrs C the impression that 
insurance was a requirement of their mortgage application. The banks confirmed there was 
no such requirement. And none of the paperwork Ive seen suggests otherwise. Ive 
therefore not seen enough evidence to persuade me Mr and Mrs C were told they had to 
purchase the insurance. I do however think its likely Santander told them they should 
purchase the insurance, as the couples circumstances demonstrated a need for some 
cover. And this was very clearly an advised sale, where Santander was providing them with 
advice and a recommendation. 
But whilst a need for cover existed, and I have no concerns with the banks 
recommendations to Mr C, Im not persuaded the LTA policy Santander sold Mrs C was 
suitable for her needs. 
The couple were applying for a traditional capital and interest mortgage, where their balance 
outstanding would reduce monthly in line with their repayments. Mr C was advised to 
purchase a DTA policy, where the sum assured reduced in line with the balance outstanding. 
This meant Mr C was only paying for the cover the evidence in this case persuaded me he 
needed. Mrs C on the other hand was advised to purchase an LTA policy where the sum 
assured remained fixed for the duration of the mortgage. In my view, which Santander 
acknowledged as part of its recommendation, this was more cover than she needed. And 
crucially this came at an extra, and in my view unnecessary, cost to Mrs C.
Theres no evidence that Santander attempted to obtain a quote for a single life DTA policy 
for Mrs C when it was giving advice. And Im satisfied that a DTA policy, akin to Mr Cs, is 
likely to have been a suitable recommendation for her, given the couples circumstances 
which I discussed in my provisional decision. Ive also considered that cost seems to have 
been an important factor to Mr and Mrs C when arranging protection for their mortgage. The 
banks notes show the couple rejected some of its recommendations on the basis of cost. 
And Id reasonably expect Santander to have considered this when making its 
recommendations, mindful of its obligation to provide suitable advice. 
In my view, the fact that Santanders advice to Mrs C meant she ended up with more cover 
than she needed, and that this came at an additional cost versus a more suitable DTA 
policy, means its advice to her was unsuitable. It follows that Santander must now put this 
right. 
Putting things right 
Following my provisional decision, Santander has established that if itd sourced a DTA 
policy for Mrs C at the time it advised her, it wouldve been cheaper than the LTA policy it 
actually sold her. As it accepts the findings in my provisional decision, the bank has said it 
will: 
Refund the difference in premiums paid so far, between Mrs Cs LTA policy and the 
hypothetical DTA policy. 
Calculate and pay 8% simple interest, calculated annually, on the difference in 
premiums thats already been paid by Mr and Mrs C. 
Looking ahead at the remainder of the policys term, itll pay the difference in unpaid 
premiums between Mrs Cs LTA policy and the hypothetical DTA policy. 
Based on what its told us, Im persuaded Santander has correctly interpreted the award I 
outlined in my provisional decision. Santander must calculate and pay redress as outlined in the bullet points above. Ill add though that if Santander decides that tax is payable on the 
interest Ive awarded, it should send a tax deduction certificate to Mr and Mrs C. They may 
then reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr and Mrs C have asked whether my award to them takes account of the variable cost of 
living and inflation, in the years theyve been overpaying for cover they didnt need. Im 
satisfied my decision to award 8% simple interest on top of what Santander will be refunding 
to the couple is fair and reasonable in this regard. This rate is reflective of the statutory 
interest which could be awarded by a court. And it serves to compensate the couple for the 
fact theyve been left out of pocket as a result of the banks advice. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct that Santander UK Plc must calculate 
and pay redress as outlined above in the section titled Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman