DRN-3799364
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank Plc trading as Ratesetter unfairly terminated and defaulted 
his loan account after hed had a short term payment deferral.
.What happened
In September 2018, Mr M took out a £3,000 loan with Ratesetter payable over 60 months at 
£69.81 per month. Mr M said he maintained his monthly contractual repayments. But In 
August 2021, Mr M said his income was reduced as he was put on furlough because of the 
pandemic. He told Ratesetter about his financial difficulties and it was agreed that his direct 
debit would be placed on hold for three months. In early December 2021 Mr M contacted 
Ratesetter and explained he was still struggling financially. Ratesetter sent Mr M a Standard 
Statement of Income form to complete and for him to consider Open Banking to help during 
his current financial situation. But Mr M said when he saw his direct debit had been 
reactivated, he didnt complete the forms or look to Open Banking as he was again paying 
his monthly contractual repayments.
Mr M said he was surprised after returning from a Christmas break to find Ratesetter had 
terminated his loan agreement and that his account had been placed with debt collectors. He 
said his credit file showed hed defaulted on the loan agreement and that this would be 
recorded for six years. Mr M complained to Ratesetter.
Ratesetter said theyd called Mr M as agreed in late November 2021 but didnt get a 
response. As his account was three months in arrears, they issued a default notice shortly 
after. Ratesetter said that Mr M spoke to them in early December 2021 and it was agreed 
that hed complete the Statement of Income, so that they could assess his financial 
circumstances. They said they put any termination action on hold for two weeks to give Mr M 
the chance to return the forms. But when the forms werent returned, they terminated his 
account.
Mr M wasnt happy with Ratesetters response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mr M was aware his account was in arrears. And as he hadnt 
returned the income and expenditure form Ratesetter hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in following their process and terminating his agreement.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint.
In 2021 Mr M was experiencing financial difficulties caused by the pandemic. Up to this point 
he had made his monthly contractual repayments on time. The FCA produced guidance for 
businesses in assisting consumers through these difficult times. And this included payment 
deferrals, but the FCA said the guidance would only cover payment deferral up to July 2021, 
and Mr M only made Ratesetter aware of his financial difficulties in August 2021.
Where a COVID payment deferral isnt possible, but Ratesetter are aware of financial 
difficulties, I would expect them to consider offering alternative support and help. So Ive 
considered the relevant regulatory guidance set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). CONC 7.3 sets out the considerations a lender should take into 
account when dealing with a customer in arrears. And this includes the need to treat the 
customer fairly, to allow a period of forbearance where appropriate, and to allow the 
customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
Im pleased to see that in August 2021 when Mr M made Ratesetter aware of his difficulties 
they agreed to stop taking his monthly repayments made by direct debit for three months. 
This covered the months of September, October and November 2021. And Ratesetter told 
Mr M theyd call him on 20 November 2021 to discuss his situation going forward.
Ratesetter called Mr M on 22 November 2021 but he didnt answer and there wasnt an 
option to leave a voicemail message. I would have expected Ratesetter to have tried to 
speak to Mr M again, or to contact him by another channel, for example email to say theyd 
called. But they didnt, in fact they issued a default notice to Mr M the next day.
Mr M said he didnt receive the default notice. But I can see he emailed Ratesetter just prior 
to his December 2021 payment falling due. And he asked for further help as he was still 
struggling financially. He also explained hed a new job starting in January 2022 and that he 
would be able to maintain his monthly loan repayments from then on. I can see Ratesetter 
put a hold on any further action and looked to Mr M to complete an income and expenditure 
form. And gave him an option of Open Banking, with the intention to establish Mr Ms 
financial situation and whether there was any further help they could give. Ratesetter gave 
Mr M two weeks to take this action. But I cant see that Mr M was told the consequences of 
not returning the form or taking up the Open Banking option.
Mr M didnt take up either option but began to repay his monthly contractual loan 
repayments again from December 2021. I cant see that Ratesetter acknowledged this 
payment but I can see that after the two week deadline had passed they defaulted and 
terminated Mr Ms loan account.
Guidance set out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says that a creditor may 
record a default if an account is in arrears for three months. And If a customer fails to return 
to contractual payments after an arrangement to pay has expired, then the lender can file a 
default immediately. But while Mr M was three months in arrears, hed returned to making 
his contractual payments and this wasnt acknowledged by Ratesetter.
The ICO guidance also says:
If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an 
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
I think the crux of Mr Ms complaint is whether the relationship between Ratesetter and 
himself had broken down. And I dont think it had. The payment deferral was a temporary 
arrangement and I agree should have been noted on Mr Ms credit file as such, while arrears 
would accrue a default wouldnt be recorded. When the temporary arrangement ended and 
contractual payments were again being made, I would have expected Ratesetter to 
acknowledge this and look to consider capitalisation, re-scheduling or re-aging of the loan agreement. But I dont think they considered that Mr M was again making his contractual 
repayments when they defaulted his account.
RateSetter gave Mr M two weeks to return the income and expenditure forms, and as he 
hadnt, they defaulted and terminated his loan account. I can understand Mr Ms frustration 
as Im persuaded his understanding was that he was now making his contractual payments 
and hed be engaging with Ratesetter with a view to developing a way of clearing the 
outstanding arrears. I cant see that Ratesetter made Mr M aware of what the consequences 
would be if he didnt complete the income and expenditure forms. And In situations like this I 
think Mr M should have clearly been told the implications if he didnt complete the forms. 
CONC does suggest a reasonable time period for when a repayment plan is being 
considered, as I think was the case here, as thirty days. But Mr M was only given two weeks 
by Ratesetter to consider the options.
So, I dont think Ratesetter has treated Mr M in a fair way. They didnt acknowledge Mr Ms 
December repayment. And I dont think they acted reasonably to allow him time to discuss a 
way of clearing the arrears on his account after the temporary arrangement had ended. I 
cant say whether or not Mr M would have kept up with his monthly commitments or agreed 
a repayment plan for clearing the arrears. But I dont think Ratesetter gave Mr M ample time 
to test this before taking action that could affect his financial situation for six years.
And I think this has caused Mr M distress and inconvenience. Up until the impacts of the 
pandemic Mr M had maintained his loan agreement. And he was now concerned about his 
account being given to debt collectors, and the financial implications of having a default 
recorded on his credit file for six years. So, I also intend to ask Ratesetter to compensate Mr 
M for this by paying him £150.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
Ratesetter commented that while Mr M had recommenced his contractual payment, they 
would have still needed a plan to be in place for managing the account. And Mr M had failed 
to return the Standard Statement of Income, if he had this could have prevented the 
termination of his account. But they accept that RateSetter should have made further contact 
with Mr M to understand his financial circumstances and to look to set up a plan, before 
issuing the termination notice.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Metro Bank Plc trading as Ratesetter to:
take back Mr Ms loan agreement from the debt collectors; 
remove any charges that may have been added to his account with regard to his 
account being transferred to debt collectors; 
remove the default from Mr Ms credit file; 
discuss an affordable repayment option with Mr M for the three months arrears built 
up during the payment deferral period; and 
pay £150 to Mr M for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman