DRN-3258399
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a fee-paying 
Select account in May 1997.
Mr and Mrs W say it was mis-sold because they felt pressured into agreeing to it and were 
told that credit card and loan applications would be declined if they didnt agree to it. They 
say they were not given any information about the account. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the Select account was 
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for the 
matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it might also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I need to decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened based on everything that is available. And having 
weighed everything up, on balance I dont think that the Select account was mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say that they were told that they could not take out loans and credit cards if 
they didnt agree to upgrade their account to a Select account. However, the limited 
evidence that is available doesnt indicate that they were told this. For example, I cant see 
that Mr and Mrs W applied for a loan around the time that they agreed to the Select account. 
And I can see that Mr and Mrs W had held a fee-free account with Lloyds for a number of 
years, prior to upgrading their account to a Select account. And they have provided evidence 
to show that they were successfully able to apply for loans and overdrafts in the years prior 
to taking out the Select account. 
So based on everything I have seen, Ive not seen enough to be able to say that Mr and Mrs 
W were likely to have misled into thinking they had to have the Select account to obtain 
lending. 
When the account was sold to Mr and Mrs W, it cost £3 per month and provided a £50 
interest and fee-free overdraft facility, alongside a range of other banking benefits (such as 
free bankers drafts, free copies of bank statements etc). From the limited evidence that is 
available, it seems that Mr and Mrs W were using their overdraft facility at the time. 
As such, I think its just as likely that Mr and Mrs W agreed to the account for the banking 
benefits it provided, rather than because they thought they had to have it to obtain loans or 
credit cards. I say this especially as, providing they remained within the £50 overdraft facility, 
they would avoid being charged a £6 monthly overdraft usage fee which was applicable to 
fee-free accounts at the time. Or put another way, if they remained within the £50 overdraft, 
having the Select account would work out cheaper than if they went overdrawn by a similar 
amount on a fee-free account. 
When selling the account, Lloyds was required to give Mr and Mrs W important information 
about the account. Mr and Mrs W say they werent told about any of the benefits that the 
account provided. However, Im mindful that the account was sold so long ago (25 years 
ago), that its possible that the benefits were discussed with Mr and Mrs W and they now 
simply cant recall the details of the conversation. And I find it unlikely they werent told about 
any of the features of the account when it was sold to them. Afterall, Lloyds wouldve wanted 
to make the account seem attractive, so it wouldve been in its interest to point out the 
account benefits to Mr and Mrs W  so they would agree to it. 
I accept that its possible Mr and Mrs W may not have been provided with all of the important 
information about all of the benefits the account provided. But Ive not seen anything about 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time that makes me think they wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the account, had they been given even more information about it.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs W may feel that they received 
very little value for money in the time that they held the account  particularly if their 
circumstances or usage of their overdraft mayve changed over time. But that doesnt mean 
that Lloyds was wrong to have sold it to them when it did. 
Given what Mr and Mrs W have said about other businesses response to mis-selling 
complaints, I can understand why Mr and Mrs W may now feel that the Select account was 
mis-sold. But looking at all the evidence that is available, I cant reasonably conclude that it 
was. I understand that this may be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W, but I hope Ive been able 
to explain the reasons why Im unable to uphold their complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Mr and Mrs Ws Select account was 
mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman