DRN-1651174
 
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) because her current account switch 
didn't take place on time. She says she therefore missed out on the bonus she was due to 
receive from the other bank.
Mrs Cs husband is representing her on this complaint.
What happened
Mrs C requested Barclays to switch her current account to another bank on
17 January 2020. 
Barclays sent her a letter on 20 January 2020 to confirm the request to switch bank accounts 
had been received from the other bank. The letter provided details of the account that was 
being switched at Barclays and details of the account at the other bank. The letter also 
explained what the next steps were. 
On 27 January, Mrs C set up two standing orders from her Barclays account and, on the 
same day, the switch was completed. On 28 January, Barclays sent Mrs C a letter 
confirming the switch had been made on 27 January. Mrs C didn't receive the bonus from 
the other bank.
Mrs C complained to Barclays and it issued its final response on 13 February 2020. It said it 
had followed the correct process under the terms and conditions of the account. It also said 
its understanding was that a regular payment (standing order or direct debit) had to already 
have been set up before the switch took place and that regular payment would then have 
been transferred to the new bank account. Any regular payment set up after the switch 
occurred would not have got transferred over to the new account. Barclays confirmed as the 
current account switch was requested on 17 January 2020 and Mrs C set up the standing 
order on 27 January 2020 (on the same day as the completion), it hadn't done anything 
wrong.
Mrs C was unhappy with Barclays response and referred the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didn't think Barclays had done anything wrong. She confirmed 
that Barclays followed its process with regard to the current account switch and as such it 
didn't need to do anything further.
As Mrs C didn't agree with the investigators findings, she asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.The key issue for me to decide is whether Barclays followed the correct process in making 
the current account switch and whether that was in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. 
Having reviewed what happened, in order for Mrs C to have received the bonus, the other 
bank required that the standing orders needed to be set up before the account was switched 
over. However, I can see that Mrs C set up the standing orders on the day the current 
account switch took place, which was on 27 January 2020. Unfortunately this was too late. 
This was the reason Mrs C didn't receive the bonus. The criteria set by the other 
bank to benefit from the bonus of £175.00 wasn't met Mrs C, which isn't Barclays' error.
I cant see that Barclays didn't follow its procedures or that it did anything out of line with 
what was expected. 
I appreciate it was disappointing for Mrs C that she didn't receive the bonus she expected. 
But thats not because Barclays did anything wrong. In order for customers to benefit from 
the bonus, there were conditions that had to be met. One of them was that Mrs C had to 
move across two standing orders or two direct debits before the switch. From what I can 
see, the standing orders were set up on the day the account switch completed which meant 
that those didn't transfer when the switch took place. I'm satisfied Barclays weren't 
responsible for Mrs C not receiving her bonus.
In summary, Barclays followed its own procedures in switching Mrs Cs current to another 
bank. In doing so, Im not persuaded it did anything wrong in the circumstances of this 
complaint or that it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman