DRN-3614154
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about the maturity of a mortgage endowment policy she held with 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. She is unhappy with the maturity value she received in 
July 2020. She believes that Aviva mis-managed the policy after it took it over from the 
original provider and the literature it issued to her was misleading, as it said that nothing 
about the policy would change.
The policy was originally bought from a life assurance company that is now part of Aviva. I 
will refer to Aviva throughout, even where activities were undertaken by its former 
incarnations. 
What happened
I issued a decision on 14 July 2022 setting out our jurisdiction to consider this complaint. I 
concluded that we could only consider the part of the complaint relating to the performance 
of the policy during the last six years of the term and the amount it matured for. As such, I 
will only detail information below that is relevant to those issues. 
Mrs W took out the endowment policy in 1995 without any advice, as she was a financial 
adviser at the time. She has told us that she selected the policy based on the quality and 
financial strength of the original life assurance company. The policy had a term of 25 years, 
a basic sum assured of £10,875 and target of £29,000.
The basic sum assured was the only amount guaranteed to be paid out at maturity, with the 
difference between that amount and the target value hopefully being accrued by the addition 
of annual bonuses during the term. Once a bonus was added to the policy, it couldnt be 
removed, but there was no guarantee that bonuses would be added or what size the 
bonuses would be if they were added. In order for the policy to reach its target amount the 
policy needed to achieve an average growth of 7.5% each year.
By the very late 1990s the industry and the regulator were aware that the general downturn 
in the financial markets meant that investment returns assumed in earlier years were not 
likely to be achieved. The consequence of this was that many mortgage endowment policies 
were now considered likely to fall short of their target amounts  the amounts policyholders 
needed to repay their mortgages. So it was decided that regular update letters should be 
sent to policyholders from 2000 and some life assurance companies issued promises in the 
early 2000s. At that time, it was thought that a 6% growth rate was achievable. Avivas 
promise was that if the future returns didnt fall below 6% per annum after tax, it would pay 
an enhanced terminal bonus to make up any shortfall in the maturity value. 
Mrs W was sent regular update letters regarding the expected performance of the policy 
throughout its term. The first of these updates Aviva has provided is from July 2007 when it 
informed her that there was a high risk of the policy maturing for less than the target value. 
The projections showed possible maturity values of between £19,300 and £28,600, 
depending on the growth rate achieved. Mrs W continued to be told the policy was at a high 
risk of a shortfall, although the growth rates used changed and the projections varied. By 
June 2019 the projections were showing possible maturity values between £20,100 and 
£22,000.
Around six weeks before the policy was due to mature, Aviva sent Mrs W a maturity 
notification. It confirmed that at the time the estimated value for the policy, which wasnt 
guaranteed, was £23,503.78. This figure included over £3,000 from the promise.
Mrs W complained to Aviva about the estimated maturity value for the policy. She said that 
over the term of the policy she had been fed a series of false promises and believed that the 
policy had been mis-managed since it had transferred to Aviva. In addition, she said that the 
reduction of the final bonus in April 2020, when the markets were recovering from the initial 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic was Aviva taking advantage of the situation and was 
criminal. She asked that Aviva provide compensation to provide her with the return that was 
promised, i.e. up to the £29,000 target value of the policy. In addition, she highlighted that 
the FTSE 100 had achieved a return of over 6% over the 25 years and said that surely 
Avivas investment team with their expertise and investment spread would be expected to 
give the same return, if not higher.
Aviva responded to the complaint on 15 September 2020. It explained how the policy 
worked, the environment it was set up in and what had happened since. It gave details of the 
terminal bonuses declared since July 2017 and explained why the terminal bonus had fallen 
in April 2020. Aviva said that while it understood Mrs Ws disappointment with the maturity 
value of the policy, there were reasons for that, and it hoped its explanation had helped her 
understanding. As the value that had been paid out was correct, Aviva confirmed that Mrs W 
was not entitled to any further payment. Aviva explained that if Mrs W wasnt happy with its 
response, she could refer the complaint to this service within the following six months of the 
date of the letter. 
Mrs W responded to Aviva asking for more detailed information about the performance of 
her policy, which was provided on 14 October 2020. The letter referred Mrs W back to the 
referral rights provided in the 15 September 2020 letter. 
Mrs W also commented on some of the information contained in the response of 
15 September 2020. Aviva sent a further letter on 15 December 2020 which effectively said 
that Mrs W had misunderstood what had been said  clarification was given. Aviva 
confirmed that the additional information Mrs W had asked it to look at hadnt changed its 
decision. It referred her back to the referral rights contained in its letter of 15 September 
2020.
Mrs W wasnt satisfied with Avivas responses and referred her complaint to this service. 
When doing so she said that she wanted the ombudsman to look into why she had been 
misled by Aviva on virtually every piece of literature produced, but she only providesd one 
document from 2007 that she believed was misleading. She also asked why she hadnt been 
protected from the early market downturn just before her policy matured. Mrs W went on to 
ask why, when the markets had been doing well in the years running-up to maturity, the final 
bonuses had been decreasing by 1% a year. 
In addition, Mrs W explained that she considered that things changed in 2007 when Aviva 
took over the policy and moved the investment to its own with-profit fund. She has said that 
she saw at that time that Aviva was going to be using the fund for its own benefit, and that 
this would affect policyholders. She told us that she complained about this at the time, and 
referred her complaint to this service, but it wasnt upheld. 
Mrs W said that when the funds were amalgamated, Aviva told policyholders that their 
policies wouldnt be affected. However, Mrs W doesnt believe that was the case, as the terminal bonus rate was slashed a few months before her policy was due to mature in 
July 2020. Mrs W said that she doesnt believe that the shortfall on her policy was just due to 
stock market performance, but down to Avivas poor management of the funds. She also 
said she didnt believe she would have had a shortfall if her policy had stayed with the 
original life assurance company. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ws complaint and explained that there were parts 
of the complaint that we couldnt consider. In relation to the part of the complaint about the 
performance of the policy over the six years prior to the complaint being made, he didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. Essentially, he highlighted the nature of the policy and the 
underlying investment and didnt believe there was any evidence of Aviva having done 
anything wrong. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the investigator. She said what seems to have been forgotten is the 
recovery and rise after all the falls over the 25 years, even after that caused by Covid-19. In 
addition, she said that while she had known about the predicted shortfalls, as these figures 
didnt include the terminal bonus, she made her own assessment of the likely maturity 
values. The amounts she calculated had nowhere near the level of the shortfall at maturity. 
She also reiterated her previous comments about how bad the performance of the policy had 
been over the term  that she would have received a better return if shed put the money in a 
building society account. She said that this service didnt seem to want to acknowledge this. 
Mrs W said that she doesnt know of any other investment that has done so badly over 25 
years. She reiterated that Aviva should have applied smoothing to her policy and protected it 
from the then recent downturn in the markets. It didnt do so and reduced the bonus rates 
immediately. She didnt think she was treated fairly. 
Our investigator reiterated his comments about our jurisdiction. He commented further on 
the matter of the performance of the policy, including commenting on the allocation of the 
terminal bonus. Mrs W didnt accept. She said that Aviva hadnt acted within the regulators 
principles regarding integrity, market conduct and customers interests. She asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
We consider our jurisdiction at every stage of a compliant. As such, I have reviewed my 
previous conclusions and I remain satisfied that they were correct, and we can only consider 
part of Mr Ws complaint. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, we look beyond just the words the consumer has used to 
explain their complaint, in order to determine what is at the heart of the complaint. At the 
heart of this complaint is Mrs Ws disappointment that her policy fell short of its target 
maturity amount. That is essentially the performance of the fund/policy.
I would firstly respond to Mrs Ws comment about the performance of the fund and how, had 
she put the money in a savings account or in a pure investment, it would have performed 
better. I would remind Mrs W that the endowment policy is not just an investment. It also 
provides protection benefits, which have to be paid for on a monthly basis. So only a portion 
of the policy premium was there to provide investment growth over the term of the policy. In 
addition, the cost of those benefits would depend on the actual amount of cover that was 
being provided  the difference between the policy value and the amount of the benefit. If a 
policy hasnt performed as expected at the outset, the cost of the benefits will be higher than 
expected and affect the growth of the policy too. While Mrs W has said she isnt aware of any other policy that has performed as badly as 
hers, I can assure her that many mortgage endowment policies matured with significant 
shortfalls. Most investment classes have been affected by the reduction in expected returns 
over more recent years. This can be evidenced by the fact that the regulator over the term of 
Mrs Ws policy has repeatedly reduced the assumed growth rates that are to be used in 
projections for investment values. 
The expectation that lower growth would be achieved on investments was the reason the 
then regulator decided that policyholders needed to be sent regular updates on their policies. 
Mrs W was sent such updates, which predicted significant shortfalls. The fact that the policy 
matured with a shortfall is not something that should have come as a surprise to Mrs W 
given what she was told over the years. I note the comment Mrs W has made about these 
figures not having included an element of terminal bonus and so she hadnt thought the 
policy was performing as badly as it eventually did. Unfortunately, Mrs W was wrong in her 
belief that an element of terminal bonus wasnt included in the projections, although it may 
not have been as high as the terminal bonuses being paid out at that particular point. The 
projections would also have taken into account the promise.
As our investigator explained, in order for me to uphold a complaint about the performance 
of an investment, I would need to see evidence that the fund managers had made mistakes 
or were negligent. It will always be possible with hindsight to say that different investment 
decisions would have been more profitable than the ones actually taken. However, I cannot 
use hindsight when making a decision. A large number of decisions will have been made 
over the recent years relating to the investments in Avivas with-profits fund. Those decisions 
were made in a regulated environment with layers of governance, independent scrutiny 
(such as by actuaries and the regulator) and oversight. Some of the factors influencing 
returns were quite simply outside of Avivas control. Even if I were to try to drill down to 
individual decisions it is very unlikely that I could point to an individual decision or set of 
decisions, which were, without using hindsight, so manifestly bad or wrong that redress 
should be paid. 
I would also comment that it is unlikely to have been in the interest of the fund managers to 
perform badly. I am sure Aviva would have wanted the fund to perform as well as possible 
as good performing products are likely to attract further business. I know that this will 
disappoint Mrs W, but I havent seen anything to persuade me that Aviva mismanaged the 
fund or acted negligently. 
Mrs W has questioned why smoothing didnt prevent the reduction in her maturity value 
caused by the sudden downturn in the markets due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As I am sure 
Mrs W is aware, smoothing is a tool to smooth out the long-term performance of a policy. It 
does this by holding back some of the growth achieved in years of good performance and 
using it to supplement the growth in years of lower growth. However, it cant completely 
protect a policy from the impact of unprecedented falls, such as the one caused by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. While it will have lessened its impact to a degree, smoothing isnt 
designed to compensate for crashes in the financial markets.  
I would also confirm that a terminal bonus is paid to ensure that a policy receives its share of 
the fund value. As I have said above, smoothing means that often not all of the value of the 
fund is attached to the individual policies invested in it. The terminal bonus is paid to provide 
the difference between the sum assured and allocated bonuses and the individual policies 
share of the fund value. There is no guarantee that a terminal bonus will be paid or how 
much it will be. In the particular circumstances of Mrs Ws policy, it is unfortunate that it 
matured when it did, as the underlying value of the fund had been adversely affected by the then recent downturn in the markets, so much so that Aviva felt the need to review the 
terminal bonus rate early, in order to protect the fund and the policies invested in it. 
I am afraid that the simple fact here is that Mrs W invested in a product which didnt perform 
as well as hoped. That is not grounds to uphold a complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
30 August 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman