DRN-3113606
The complaint
Mr U complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to put his pension savings into payment 
in a timely manner. As a result the value of his pension investments fell, and so the amount 
of pension commencement lump sum available to him was greatly reduced.
What happened
Mr U has been assisted in making his complaint by his daughter. But, for ease, in this 
decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr U 
himself.
Mr U held pension savings in two pension plans with Scottish Widows. In February 2020 
Mr U got in touch with Scottish Widows to discuss taking a pension commencement lump 
sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) from his pension savings.
Scottish Widows explained to Mr U that in order to take his PCLS he would need to move his 
pension savings into a new retirement account. And to do that he would need to take part in 
a telephone meeting to ensure that he had been given all the necessary information to 
underpin this important decision. And Scottish Widows told Mr U that following the telephone 
call he would need to provide instructions for the future investment of his remaining pension 
savings.
That process took some time. Initially Mr U didnt have the time available for the telephone 
call. And then he felt that he needed to reflect on, and discuss with his family, the decisions 
he was making. So it wasnt until around a month later, on 20 March 2020, that he gave his 
final authority for Scottish Widows to pay him his PCLS.
But the period between Mr Us initial call on 20 February, and his PCLS being put into 
payment on 20 March saw significant levels of market volatility due to the start of the 
coronavirus pandemic. That meant that the value of Mr Us pension savings fell by around 
20% resulting in a corresponding reduction in the value of his PCLS.
Mr Us complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Scottish Widows had caused the delays to Mr Us pension being put into payment, or that 
Mr U should have been given advice by Scottish Widows to protect the value of his pension 
savings during the time it took for the payment process to be completed. So he didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld.
Mr U didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr U and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Before reaching a decision on this complaint I have listened carefully to a number of phone 
calls between Mr U and Scottish Widows that took place in February and March 2020. Those 
calls are important as they form the basis of the relationship between Mr U and 
Scottish Widows at that time, and show how Mr Us request, to take his PCLS, progressed.
It seems to me that those calls generally proceeded at a pace dictated by Mr U. 
Scottish Widows generally offered him the opportunity to book a call within just a few days. 
And so the length of the process was largely influenced by Mr Us understandable caution in 
making sure that the decisions he made were appropriate.
And I think that leads me onto a very important part of this complaint  that is the 
responsibilities of Scottish Widows in its dealings with Mr U. Scottish Widows clearly stated 
to Mr U both during the phone calls, and in the written information it sent to him, that it did 
not intend to provide him with any advice, or a recommendation, about how he should 
proceed. I can see that Mr U has sought assistance from PensionWise during this process, 
and that was indeed one of the routes that Scottish Widows suggested he took if he felt he 
needed help to make this important decision.
But although Scottish Widows wasnt providing Mr U with advice, it had a regulatory 
responsibility to ensure that he had received sufficient, and clear, information on which he 
could base any decisions he made. So it seems right to me that Scottish Widows went to 
great lengths to explain the process of putting the pension savings into payment, and to 
ensure that Mr U made a fully informed decision.
I have seen that Mr U has said he didnt understand much of what he was being told and 
that Scottish Widows confused him with pension jargon. It is sometimes difficult for an 
advisor to not, at times, use words and phrases that have a specific meaning in pension 
terms. But having listened to the calls Mr U had with Scottish Widows it seems to me that its 
advisors went to great lengths to explain things in simple language, checking regularly that 
Mr U didnt have any questions that needed to be answered.
It is undoubtedly unfortunate that Mr U was going through this information process at a time 
when the global investment markets were falling, and so the value of his pension savings 
was reducing. But I cannot agree that Scottish Widows should have warned Mr U that he 
might want to take action to move his pension savings into less volatile investments. Even if 
Scottish Widows was providing advice to Mr U it had no way of predicting how markets might 
move in the future. It is entirely possible that the value of Mr Us pension savings might have 
increased during the time it took for the information process to be completed. Any decisions 
about whether or not to protect the value of the pension savings by moving them to other 
investments were entirely for Mr U to take.
I appreciate how distressing this situation will have been for Mr U. But I think it was necessary for Scottish Widows to provide him with comprehensive information on the 
options that were open to him when he wished to access his pension savings. And it was 
right that Scottish Widows should wait for Mr U to make his own decision about how to act 
on the information it had provided. I think that information was clear, and presented in an 
appropriate manner to Mr U. It was not for Scottish Widows to provide Mr U with advice, or 
direction, on the way forwards.
So I dont think that Scottish Widows has done anything wrong here. The time the process 
took to complete was largely driven by Mr Us desire to ensure the decisions he made were 
appropriate. Scottish Widows was not permitted to provide him with advice, or direction. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman