DRN-3585668
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim. 
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a travel insurance policy that ran alongside their bank current account. 
UKI is the underwriter on the policy. 
They booked a family trip on 20 November 2021 and their intended travel dates were from 
22 December 2021 to 30 December 2021.
On 28 December 2021, the government of the country they were due to travel to, announced 
new quarantine restrictions were to be enforced from 1 December 2021. The restrictions 
meant that Mr and Mrs S would have had to quarantine for seven days upon arrival to the 
destination and as they had only booked the trip for seven days, they decided to cancel the 
trip. 
Mr and Mrs submitted a claim to UKI, but this was declined on the basis that when they 
booked the trip, they would have been aware of the requirement to quarantine. This was 
considered an anticipated event and therefore was excluded under the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it. He concluded that the claim hadnt been declined unfairly or unreasonably by UKI. He 
explained that the reason for the trip being cancelled was because Mr and Mrs S would have 
had to quarantine, and this wasnt an event that was covered under their policy terms and 
conditions. He didnt agree with UKI that a broader quarantine measure was in place when 
Mr and Mrs S booked their trip. 
Unhappy with the investigators assessment, Mr and Mrs S asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).  
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S travel insurance policy 
as this forms the basis of their contract with UKI. 
Page 19, Part 1 of the policy document sets out what cover is available when a trip is 
cancelled. This says:
This section provides cover if you need to cancel your trip. .
Reasons for cancellation
1 Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of any insured person, 
your travelling companion, a close relative, a colleague or anyone outside your home 
area that you had planned to stay with. 
2. Court cases and quarantine: any insured person, your travelling companion or 
anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with is quarantined, 
called for jury service or as a witness in a court and a court official has refused to 
postpone it.
 3.  Unemployment: any insured person or your travelling companion is made 
redundant, or have a self-employed contract terminated early by the other party after 
you opened your Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip, 
whichever is later.
4. Armed forces and emergency services: as a member of the British Armed Forces 
or Emergency Services any insured person or travelling companion has authorised 
leave cancelled due to an unexpected emergency.
5. Fire, storm, flood or burglary: any insured person or your travelling companion has 
to stay at their home or their place of business in the UK as a result of it being 
seriously damaged by fire, storm, flood or burglary in the seven days before 
departure on your trip.
6. Pet emergency: your pet cat or dog needs emergency life-saving treatment in the 
seven days before departure on your trip.
7. Passport or visa: your passport or visa is stolen in the seven days before your 
departure on your trip and you cant arrange a replacement in time.
8. FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All 
travel to your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened 
your Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start 
date the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your 
Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
10. Natural disaster: you are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation Due to the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a 
natural disaster.
11. Vehicle accident or breakdown: your vehicle is involved in an accident or breaks 
down in the seven days before your trip and cant be repaired in time.
12. Pregnancy: any insured person or your travelling companion becomes aware that
They are pregnant and are advised by a doctor not to travel as a direct result, or your 
transport operator confirms they would be travelling outside the conditions of carriage. The pregnancy must have been confirmed after you opened your 
Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip, whichever is later.
13. Vaccinations: any insured person or your travelling companion is advised by a
Doctor not to travel as they cant have the recommended vaccinations for the trip 
destination due to a medical condition. The medical condition must have been 
diagnosed after you opened your Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked 
your trip, whichever is later. 
Based on the above terms and the listed events that provide cover in the case of cancelling 
a trip, for the situation that Mr and Mrs S found themselves in, there is no cover for their 
cancelled trip. Mr and Mrs S cancelled their trip because they had to quarantine and that 
isnt an event for which cover is provided under the policy. 
Ive considered what UKI has said in regard to Mr and Mrs S booking the trip when there 
were already quarantine restrictions in place at the time of booking their trip. I do understand 
but having looked at the restrictions that were in place at the time of their booking, the wider 
restrictions came into place on 1 December 2021 and were announced on 28 November 
2021  after Mr and Mrs S booked their trip. There were restrictions in place when they 
booked their trip for those who were not fully vaccinated but, regardless of that, the crux of 
the issue is that Mr and Mrs Ss cancelled trip due to having to quarantine isnt an event 
thats listed under the policy terms and conditions and therefore the claim isnt covered. 
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI hasnt declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
I appreciate and understand why Mr and Mrs S decided to cancel their trip. But based on 
whats happened and the available evidence, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could fairly ask UKI to accept the claim. It follows that I dont require UKI to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman