DRN-4103610
The complaint
Mr L and Mr R complain about Ageas Insurance Limited declining their contents insurance 
claim.
In my decision Ill refer mainly to Mr R.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr L, Mr R and Ageas and has been 
ongoing since 2021. Instead of repeating what has been well established already by our 
Investigator, in my decision Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome 
that I have.
Mr R had a contents insurance policy with Ageas. In December 2021, he made a claim 
against his policy for a gold necklace. Various claim validation investigations were carried 
out and Ageas ultimately declined the claim. 
Mr R had previously referred a related complaint about claim delays to our Service for an 
independent review. When this claim was ultimately declined, our Investigator then 
separately considered this complaint about the decline. They recommended that the 
complaint not be upheld, and as Mr R remained unhappy, the complaint has now been 
referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Both parties are already 
aware that these events have been going on for an extensive amount of time  over two 
years and Ive only summarised the key points of the background earlier in my decision. 
I also need to be clear that my decision is only considering the ultimate claim decline. Mr R 
has already had a separate complaint that considered the time taken and the service 
provided whilst Ageas investigated the circumstances of the claim.
The starting point of any claim is that the underwriter has to be reasonably satisfied that the 
circumstances of the claim were as described and that an insured loss has occurred. In 
relation to this claim, it meant that Ageas needed to be reasonably satisfied that: 1- Mr R 
owned the chain he was seeking to be indemnified for and (if they were satisfied on point 1) 
2- the loss occurred as described. 
Ageas said that after attempting to validate the claim in a range of different ways, they came 
to the decision that it was not possible based on the evidence they were presented with. 
They pointed to inconsistencies in the claim.
Having had the opportunity to carefully review the extensive evidence in this complaint, I find 
that Ageas can fairly decline the claim for the reasons given and that theyve done so in line 
with the policy terms. I wont comment on all the evidence, but will draw attention to a few 
points below.
I find:
Ageas fairly considered the bank statements provided before reasonably concluding 
that these didnt sufficiently support that Mr R had made payment by cash for the 
necklace over a period of months.
The further evidence provided by the third party, including a hand written receipt was 
fairly considered.
The photographs and valuation report provided by Mr R dont sufficiently support that 
he owned the chain.
As Mr R has been unable to satisfactorily clear up the discrepancies that surrounded
this claim, he was unable to prove that an insurable loss has occurred and this means Ageas 
didnt need to then consider the specifics of how the chain became lost.
Overall, Im satisfied that although this claim took much longer than either party wouldve 
liked, Ageas have fairly investigated the claim and given Mr R a fair opportunity to provide 
supporting evidence to alleviate some concerns they had. It follows that Im satisfied theyve 
treated Mr R fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
My decision will disappoint Mr R, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to 
informally resolve this dispute between him and Ageas. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman