DRN-4301664
The complaint
Miss L complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down claims she made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss L holds travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with her building society. 
The policy provided standard cover for trips lasting up to 31 days.
On 22 June 2022, Miss L flew abroad. Unfortunately, in November 2022, she required 
medical treatment. And in December 2022, she had to fly home because a family member 
became unwell. It seems Miss L also suffered other losses while she was abroad. She 
claimed on the policy for the costs shed incurred and the losses shed suffered.
UKI turned down Miss Ls claims. Thats because all of Miss Ls losses had happened 
significantly more than 31 days after shed travelled abroad. And Miss L hadnt purchased an 
optional trip extension which would have provided cover for longer. So UKI said Miss Ls 
claim wasnt covered.
Miss L was unhappy with UKIs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
didnt think the 31 day trip limit had been made clear enough.
Our investigator didnt think it had been unfair for UKI to turn down Miss Ls claims. She 
thought the policy terms made it sufficiently clear that the policy only provided cover for trips 
of up to 31 days in length unless a policyholder had taken out trip extension cover. 
Miss L disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss L, I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down her claims and Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that UKI didnt sell this policy to Miss L and so it wasnt responsible 
for any information she was given when she took the policy out, or for highlighting key policy 
terms during the sales process. If Miss L is unhappy with the way the policy was sold to her, 
or if she believes the cover was misrepresented to her at the point of sale, shed need to 
make a separate complaint to the policy seller. In this case, it appears Miss Ls building 
society sold the policy to her.
I also understand that Miss L has recently suffered a family bereavement. Id like to offer my 
sincere condolences to Miss L for her loss.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss Ls policy and the evidence which has been provided to me by both 
parties, to decide whether I think UKI treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Miss L and UKI. Page two of the policy includes a section called Booking a Trip? 
This list sets out things UKI believes a policyholder should consider before booking a trip. 
The list includes the following:
Is your trip for more than 31 days?
This policy covers you for trips of up to 31 days. If your trip is longer, you can purchase a 
Trip Extension Upgrade. This must be done before your departure from the UK.
Pages six and seven set out the Operation of Cover and Upgrades section of the contract. 
This section includes an emboldened heading called Trip Length. This says:
This policy provides cover for trips of up to 31 days. If your return to your home area is 
delayed beyond the scheduled end date of your trip for reasons outside of your control we 
will automatically extend cover until your return date. If you are planning a longer trip you 
can extend cover by buying a Trip Extension Upgrade.
The policy explains how upgrades can be purchased at the bottom of page seven.
In my view, UKIs policy terms make it sufficiently clear that cover is only provided for trips of 
up to 31 days long, unless a) a policyholders return is delayed due to reasons outside of 
their control, or b) theyve taken out and paid for a Trip Extension Upgrade.
Ive carefully considered the available evidence, which unfortunately is limited. Miss L has 
provided us with little information about her trip  how long it was originally scheduled for, or 
about the claims she made. So Ive necessarily had to rely on the evidence which was sent 
to us by Miss L and UKI. It doesnt appear that Miss L took out and paid for a Trip Extension 
Upgrade. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Miss Ls trip had to be extended for 
reasons beyond her control  such as an illness. So I think it was reasonable for UKI to 
conclude that Miss L was only covered for trips of up to 31 days long.
In this case, Miss L flew abroad in June 2022. The 31 days of cover expired in late July 
2022. UKIs notes indicate that Miss L told it that shed required medical assistance in 
November 2022 and that she had to cut short her trip due to family illness in December 
2022. Both of these events happened several months after the 31-day trip limit had expired. 
And so, based on the evidence Ive seen, I find that UKI was reasonably entitled to conclude 
that Miss Ls claims happened after the cover for her trip had already ended. It follows then 
that I dont think it was unfair for UKI to turn down Miss Ls claims.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Miss Ls position, I dont think UKI has handled 
her claims unfairly or turned them down unreasonably. And Im not persuaded that there are 
any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct UKI to accept and settle Miss Ls claims. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 Lisa Barham
Ombudsman