DRN-2612911
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General declined 
her claim.
What happened
Miss D has an income protection policy with Fairmead. She took this policy out in November 
2018. The following month she registered with a new GP and was eventually diagnosed with 
functional movement disorder in May the following year. Miss D was unable to work and so 
she made a claim on her income protection policy. 
Fairmead said it needed more information before it could decide her claim. It said this 
because there was evidence to suggest that Miss D had suffered with similar symptoms prior 
to taking out the policy. Miss D didnt think this was right and so she brought her complaint 
here.
Our investigator decided that Fairmead was entitled to request Miss Ds previous medical 
history as he could see there was some evidence to suggest her symptoms of dizziness, 
tremor and migraine were possibly present prior to taking her policy. 
Miss D still disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her case. She said there 
had been no diagnosis prior to May 2019 and so Fairmead should accept the claim. She 
didnt think she should have to show any additional medical evidence. Miss D also 
highlighted a more recent letter from her doctor, in January 2020, which she feels supports 
her position. She also said that any symptoms noted prior to November 2018 were likely 
related to her spinal issues and not FMD. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I say that because Ive not seen 
any persuasive evidence to say Fairmead has made a mistake, or that it treated Miss D 
unfairly by requesting further medical evidence so it could validate her claim. Ill explain why. 
All insurers are entitled to validate claims brought by their consumers. In this instance, Miss 
D is alleging that shes too unwell to work owing to her FMD. I accept Miss D hadnt received 
a formal diagnosis prior to May 2020, but thats not to say that she suffered with symptoms 
prior to that. This is important because Fairmeads policy says;
We wont pay benefit for disability if:
 disability occurs within 12 months after the start date and is caused by a pre-existing 
condition 
The policy defines pre-existing conditions as;
Pre existing condition
Any disease, illness or injury, including related medical conditions, where either, in the 12 
months before the start date or the amendment date:
 you have received a consultation, medication, monitoring advice or treatment; or
 your medical records indicate, and your doctor confirms, that you had experienced 
symptoms of (whether or not a diagnosis has been made)
Miss Ds FMD diagnosis and claim was brought to Fairmead within 12 months of her taking 
the policy which is why I say its entitled to take a close look at her medical history in order to 
validate her claim. Part of that process is considering the medical evidence, such as the GP 
and neurologists notes, as well as investigating any previous medical treatment or 
investigations that took place in Poland. I acknowledge that not all of Miss Ds treatments or 
investigations were completed within the UK  but that doesnt mean Fairmead shouldnt 
explore this aspect of her medical history as I consider it relevant to her claim. 
The GP notes indicate Miss D was suffering with symptoms a year before she took the policy 
out. I say that because the new GP she saw in December 2018 wrote;
14/12/18 new patient at this time. Stated 1 year history then [in reference to when 
symptoms of dizziness, migraines and tremor began] Consulted other doctors in Poland 
prior
Im satisfied theres cause for Fairmead to investigate further to establish when Miss Ds 
symptoms began as her most recent illness could have been caused by a pre-existing 
condition. I understand Miss Ds argument in response to this and the connection shes 
attempting to make here. In essence, she said that because there was no formal diagnosis 
previously, then Fairmead should not investigate further and pay her claim. But Fairmeads 
policy doesnt say that, it says it considers symptoms (whether or not a diagnosis has been 
made) to be a pre-existing medical condition. And so, because theres enough medical 
evidence to suggest her symptoms were present for a year prior, and that shes received 
treatment previously, Fairmead isnt doing anything wrong by exploring this further. 
Ive considered the GP letter from January 2020, like Miss D asked, but Im not persuaded it 
tells me anything that wasnt already known. The letter suggested that when Miss D joined 
their practice, shed had various symptoms that werent investigated over the past 5 years 
and that shed undergone various investigations such as X-rays, ultrasounds and blood tests 
when she went back to Poland. All of which is indicative of there perhaps being some 
underlying medical conditions which may be relevant to her income protection claim. Miss D 
has suggested some of this was related to her spinal issues  but the point is, Fairmead 
needs to be given the opportunity to investigate that and come to a decision on her claim. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Fairmead has done anything wrong here and 
that its entitled to probe further into Miss Ds medical history, given the persuasive medical 
evidence Ive seen.     
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman