DRN-1820618
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited isnt being truthful about 
his pension. Prudential say that Mr M chose to take his pension in 2012. It says it paid him a 
lump sum and continues to pay him a monthly annuity. Mr M says he never signed to take 
anything and he didnt receive the lump sum.
What happened
In 2019 Mr M complained to Prudential after he received a letter about his pension. He said 
hed never signed to take his pension in 2012 and hadnt received the lump sum Prudential 
says it paid him in 2012. Mr M wanted to cancel his annuity and get a lump sum.
Prudential investigated and replied to Mr M saying it would not be upholding his complaint. It 
explained that in 2012 Mr M had completed application forms to take a tax-free lump sum 
and the remainder of his pension fund as a monthly annuity. Enclosed with its response was 
a copy of the form that Mr M had signed and sent to Prudential to request payment. It also 
explained that it had been sending Mr M annual p60 forms showing the annuity payments to 
his address.
Mr M said hed never received these letters or the payment of the lump sum in 2012. He 
believed hed been conned by Prudential. Unhappy with its response Mr M brought a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into things and Prudential sent us its file. Included in this file was all 
the paperwork from when the payment was set up. This included Mr Ms signed application 
form which had been filled in with all the personal details needed so that the annuity could 
be paid to Mr M. 
Mr M disputed that the payment in 2012 had been sent to him. He said he expected 
something to be paid to him on his 65th birthday and Prudential was lying about sending him 
the money in 2012. The investigator asked whether Prudential had any records on its 
systems of the cheque for the lump sum being cashed. It said it didnt, but it wouldve 
investigated at the time if a cheque hadnt been cashed. It said it couldnt trace the payment 
now as seven years had passed but Mr M may be able to get statements from his bank from 
2012.
Our investigator wrote to both parties to say that he wouldnt be recommending the 
complaint be upheld. He explained that all the evidence showed that Prudential had in all 
likelihood sent Mr M the money in 2012 as requested by Mr M.
Mr M received a payment in February 2020 relating to his annuity following a separate 
review that Prudential had carried out and where it found it had underpaid Mr M. Mr M 
originally thought that this was his tax-free cash payment that Prudential said it sent him in 
2012. And he said this figure was much lower than what Prudential said it paid him. 
However, after the investigator looked into this, Mr M understood that this was a separate 
payment. Mr M was then able to locate bank statements from 2012 and this showed that he was paid the lump sum that Prudential said it had paid him. However, Mr M remained 
unhappy as he thinks the annuity hes getting is a rip-off and he expected more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Prudential has paid and is paying Mr M in line with what 
was agreed in 2012.
As Mr M now appears to accept, Prudential did pay him the lump sum in 2012. The evidence 
clearly shows that in 2012 Mr M instructed Prudential to pay him a tax-free lump sum and he 
chose to have the remaining amount paid as a monthly annuity. Prudential sent confirmation 
of this at the time and annual letters as well with the annuity amount detailed. And Mr M has 
sent us his bank statement from 2012 showing he received this money.
So I dont think its necessary to discuss this in any more detail. However, Mr M remains 
unhappy as he doesnt think the annuity is paying him what he was led to believe. Mr M 
wants to cancel or cash in the annuity on this basis.
Mr M says that he thinks the annuity is a rip off as hes only getting £35 a month but was led 
to believe hed get around £200/300 paid to him as a lump sum at 65. However, Mr M chose 
to take his benefits in 2012 and the figures were set out then and he agreed to these. There 
is no mention of a later lump sum to be paid to Mr M. Mr M signed up for an annuity to be 
paid for life. 
The paperwork explained that once the annuity was set up it couldnt be altered, and Mr M 
was given a 30 day period to cancel the annuity if he wished to do so. So I think Prudential 
did make Mr M aware of what he was signing up to then and he agreed to this. And I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to say that Prudential did something wrong and that it 
should agree to cancel Mr Ms annuity on this basis.
However, on a related note, I see that following a review of its non-advised annuity sales, 
Prudential increased Mr Ms annuity in payment recently. It appears that this is because Mr 
M had a medical condition and Prudential found that it didnt make him fully aware of his 
options, so it has compensated him for this. As this wasnt part of this complaint, I cannot 
consider this here.
Due to Mr Ms unhappiness with the annuity and wanting to cancel it, Prudential explained 
that legislation only allowed for annuities to be cashed in if they are under £10,000. And that 
the legislation was at the providers discretion and it had chosen not to offer this. Mr Ms 
annuity was set up based on his instructions and what was agreed then in 2012.  I dont 
think it would be fair to say that Prudential should cancel his annuity or allow him to cash it in 
on the basis that it hasnt paid him what was agreed then.
However, since this time, Prudential has separately reviewed the annuity sales process 
(relating to) Mr M, and the value of his annuity has changed due that review. Its possible 
that the value now exceeds the £10,000 in any event but Prudential hasnt commented on 
this. However, this decision only relates to whether Prudential has paid Mr M what it agreed 
to in 2012, any other matters relating to the annuity set up dont fall within the scope of this 
decision.
Im sorry to hear of the financial difficulty Mr M has told us about however weve been able to 
establish that Prudential did pay him the annuity and tax free cash that he agreed to in 2012. my final decision
For the reasons explained I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and I make no award.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman