DRN-3039037
The complaint
Mr C and Miss W complain that Countrywide Principal Services Limited caused delays and 
misled them about the time their mortgage application would take. They also complain about 
the way it treated them. Mr C and Miss W ask that Countrywide compensates them for costs 
of about £1,400 and pays compensation of £400 for their trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr C and Miss W contacted Countrywide for mortgage advice in late 2019. They intended to 
sell their house and take out a new mortgage to buy a property. Their sale fell through and 
they applied for a let to buy mortgage instead of selling the property. 
Countrywide applied for a residential mortgage and a let to buy mortgage on behalf of Mr C 
and Miss W. Its the application for the residential mortgage that they complain about here. 
There were delays and the lender put applications on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Countrywide accepted it made errors which caused some delays. It didnt process the let to 
buy application promptly after Mr Cs property sale fell through. It made an error with 
Miss Ws income, and it could have been clearer about the status of the applications. It 
offered to refund £600 of fees and pay £200 compensation for the upset caused.
Our investigator said while Countrywide made errors its offer of compensation was fair and 
reasonable. The lender had concerns about Mr C and Miss Ws application on grounds of 
affordability  this wasnt due to any error by Countrywide. It wasnt fair to require 
Countrywide to compensate them for legal and valuation costs, or for their disappointment 
about their purchase falling through.  
Mr C and Miss W didnt agree and provided detailed reasons why. They asked for more 
compensation and said the depth and seriousness of their complaint hadnt been taken into 
account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Miss W say Countrywide made errors, which Ive set out briefly below:
It didnt explain theyd have difficulty getting a mortgage due to being self-employed, their 
ages and a large outgoing on a vehicle lease.
it didnt explain its fees or that these wouldnt be refunded if they were unsuccessful.
it didnt process the buy to let mortgage application promptly. 
there was no need for it to delay the residential mortgage application while it processed 
the let to buy application.
It misled them and the lender about Miss Ws benefits income.
it mislaid the benefits award letters they provided, and claimed it asked for these again in 
March, when it hadnt.
it was dismissive about a letter from their accountant explaining how a lease was 
accounted for  and which led to the lender re-considering their application. 
didnt follow up promptly when the lender agreed in mid-March to look at the application 
again.
their vendor pulled out of the sale in mid-March due to their mortgage application being 
declined. 
it didnt act with urgency to send documents to the lender or to chase the lender for 
updates and a decision.
it frequently failed to return their calls or messages.
Mr C and Miss W say these errors resulted in their purchase falling through. They say if 
Countrywide had provided a good service theyd have achieved a positive result with a 
mortgage offer before late March 2020, when the lender put applications on hold due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. In keeping with this, I wont comment on 
each point made by Mr C and Miss W or Countrywide. I can assure them though that Ive 
read and considered all the comments and evidence that have been provided. I should also 
say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
While I dont agree that Countrywide made all of the errors set out by Mr C and Miss W it 
certainly did make errors, and it did cause delays to their application. The main delays it 
caused were by not processing the let to buy mortgage promptly and the error with Miss Ws 
income. However, I dont think I can fairly find that their purchase and mortgage application 
would have completed if there hadnt been these errors and delays.
The lender put residential mortgage applications on hold on 27 March 2020. It hadnt agreed 
to lend to Mr C and Miss W at that point. In fact, it had declined the application only seven 
days before, due to concerns about affordability. 
While the application process prior to this had taken longer than Mr C and Miss W expected, 
this wasnt all due to errors by Countrywide. 
The lender asked for up to date benefits awards letters and wasnt happy with the letters 
provided by Mr C and Miss W in early 2020. The lender was still requesting this when the 
application was put on hold. This was despite Countrywide saying the benefits income would 
be ceasing  the lender wanted to know the correct position. While Mr C disputes that 
Countrywide asked him for an updated benefits awards letter in late March 2020, I dont 
think this changes matters. By this point, the lender had put applications on hold and their 
purchase had fallen through.
During the application process, the lender raised questions about credit commitments that it 
picked up in its search but which hadnt been declared in the application. It asked for more 
information about Mr C and Miss Ws future income, including pensions. As time passed the 
lender wanted information (such as bank statements) to be updated. The lender had 
concerns about a vehicle lease commitment.
The issues with the vehicle lease were resolved by mid-March 2020: the lender agreed to 
continue with the application after receiving a letter from Mr Cs accountant explaining how 
the lease commitment was treated in Mr Cs business accounts. At this point, it seems the 
valuation hadnt yet been carried out. The application declined on 20 March, due to affordability concerns. So there were some significant matters still outstanding when the 
lender put the application on hold. 
And by this point, the vendor had pulled out of the sale. Mr C says this was because the 
vendor had been told their mortgage application was declined. 
I dont think I can fairly find that Mr C and Miss Ws mortgage application and purchase 
would have completed if there hadnt been any delays caused by Countrywide.
Mr C says Countrywide didnt explain whether its fees would be refunded. However, it has 
refunded the fees, so I think this issue is resolved. And while he says he wasnt told how 
difficult the application would be I dont think Countrywide could have known this at the 
outset either. 
Countrywide did make errors here. It caused some delays. And it didnt provide the service 
Mr C and Miss W expected. Countrywide accepted this and offered to refund its fees (of 
£600) and pay compensation of £200 for any upset. I think, in the circumstances, this is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr C says he paid valuation and legal fees, although he hasnt provided evidence of this 
(such as a bank or card statement). Mr C and Miss W didnt have a mortgage offer for their 
purchase, so any decision to incur legal fees for this was at their own risk. Its not clear from 
the evidence provided that a valuation was carried out. Perhaps these costs related to the let 
to buy application  as I say, Mr C and Miss W didnt provide evidence theyd paid these 
costs. 
Im sorry if Mr C and Miss W incurred costs. I understand this is frustrating when the 
purchase didnt go ahead. But these costs are part of the purchase and mortgage application 
processes. Theres no guarantee that a mortgage application will be successful, or that a 
property purchase wont fail for another reason. Here, for the reasons Ive set out, I cant 
fairly find that Mr C and Miss Ws application would have been successful but for errors by 
Countrywide. So I dont think its fair to require it to pay further compensation for these costs.
My final decision
My decision is that Countrywide Principal Services Limited should refund its fees (of £600) 
and pay compensation of £200 to Mr C and Miss W, as it offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman