DRN-3890105
The complaint
Mr M says Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Stagemount provided to Mr M. 
Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 
number Start dateLoan 
amount TermRepayment
(£) End date
1 04/04/2018 300 3 months 161.24 15/10/2018
2 16/03/2020 600 3 months 301.38 15/06/2020
3 30/06/2020 450 4 months 171.11 15/10/2020
4 17/10/2020 600 5 months 214.09 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and she thought Stagemounts checks went 
far enough and the results of those checks didnt raise concerns about Mr Js ability to repay 
the loans.
Mr M disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Stagemount needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Stagemount should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Stagemount was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations require that the lending should be repaid without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Stagemount has provided evidence to show that it asked Mr M about his income and 
expenses and searched his credit file. It also verified Mr Ms declared income through his 
payslips at the time of loans 1,2 and 4. I can also see that Stagemount adjusted some of 
Mr Ms expenses where it thought it was too low.
Overall, I think the checks before lending any of the loans went far enough as I think 
Stagemount got a good understanding of Mr Ms financial circumstances before it lent. So, 
Ive considered whether it reacted appropriately to the results of its checks.
 
For loan 1, Mr Ms payslip confirmed his income was around £2,578 and his living expenses 
were around £900. Although the credit search showed Mr M has historic defaults with 
outstanding balances on the, his overall credit commitments were reasonable and showed 
he was in a position to make the £161.24 monthly repayment for this loan.
There was a break of about 18 months between Mr M repaying loan 1 and him borrowing 
loan 2. Mr Ms payslip at the time confirmed his income as around £2,162 and his income 
and expenses suggested that he had sufficient disposable income to make the monthly 
repayment of £01.38 over the term.
The lending decisions for loans 3 and 4 were largely similar to the first two loans. Mr M had 
sufficient disposable income to repay the loans over the terms.
Overall, while there was some adverse information on Mr Ms credit file, these were historic 
and his credit commitments at the time of the loans suggested hed be in a position to repay 
the loans over their terms. So, I dont think Stagemount was wrong to lend any of the loans.
Stagemount offered to write off the outstanding balance of around £87.61 on Mr Ms last 
loan and it has said the offer is still available, so If Mr M wishes to accept the offer, he should 
contact Stagemount directly to accept the offer.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman