DRN-3887840
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined cover under
his home appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J registered his kitchen appliances to include a cooker hood with D&G in October 2021.
He understood that they would be covered by his appliance insurance policy. He explained
that the cooker hood wasnt working. The D&G representative therefore provided a contact
number for the make of appliance referenced by Mr J.
Mr J contacted D&G again in January 2022 as the cooker hood still wasnt working. He firstly
complained how difficult it had been to contact D&G. Mr J gave the cooker hood make which
was not the same as the make hed originally mentioned. The agent said that it didnt have a
repairer for that make but explained that Mr J could make a pay and claim, where the
policyholder arranges the work and then claims reimbursement. Mr J duly arranged an
engineer to fix the cooker hood, however the engineer advised a replacement. D&G declined
cover for the call-out and replacement cooker hood. Mr J complained to D&G however it
maintained its decision and Mr J therefore referred his complaint to our service.
The services investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. She considered that Mr J had
responsibility for providing correct details when taking out his policy, however she thought
hed provided incorrect details of the cooker hood. The investigator considered that as the
insurer didnt cover the make of cooker hood and had offered a refund of premiums, that this
was a fair and reasonable outcome and didnt require D&G to do anything else.
Mr J remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint, so the matter was referred to
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In December 2022, I issued a 
provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to partly uphold Mr 
Js complaint as follows: -
The issue for me to determine here is whether D&G acted in a fair and reasonable manner 
in dealing with Mr Js claim about his cooker hood. I dont think that it has in all respects and
Im minded to partly uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive considered Mr Js submissions. He said that hed taken out a policy with D&G in
October 2021 to include a cooker hood, cooker hob and double oven. This arrangement was
set up in a telephone call with D&G. Mr J wished to reiterate that it was a D&G sales
representative who first contacted him to sell a policy. He said I was not ready nor did I have
the exact details of the Cooker Hood or other appliances (Manufacture details) to hand when
I was called neither was I looking to get insurance coverage for an appliance that came with
the show house.
Mr J said that the sales representative was given all required details of the product... He
said that this was a show home with appliances already installed and so was not fully aware
of the details. He said that he was assured that D&G would cover all appliances and if
anything were to go wrong they would either try to fix or replace it like for like. Mr J said he
made it clear that he wasnt sure of the brand name. Since the double oven had a make
sticker on it, hed assumed the hood would be the same. Mr J said that he informed D&Gs
agent that the warranty on the product had expired as the show home had been built over a
year prior to this. In summary, he thought hed been sold a policy that covered all makes. He
said I would like to reiterate that I have not provided incorrect details . He said that hed
provided all details to the best of his knowledge and as more than one policy was taken out,
he didnt check the policy details.
Mr J said when his engineer inspected the cooker hood in accordance with D&Gs direction,
it was identified that it was a motor issue and it's best to replace it. Mr J then paid the £50
call out charge and ended up buying a new cooker hood and paid for fitting it. Initially, he
said that once he sent details of the fault to D&G, it said he could choose the closest
appliance so that he could order a replacement on-line and that the details were all
confirmed and agreed. Mr J said that was then told that D&G couldnt replace the cooker
hood as the product wasnt one it supported.
Turning to D&Gs response, it said that as the cooker hood details were incorrect when the
plan was set up, it couldnt uphold the complaint. It had to take the information provided by
Mr J as correct when setting up the plan. Had the agent been told the correct make then its
likely Mr J would have been informed correctly this wouldnt be covered. In the same call, Mr
J had said that the cooker hood wasnt working correctly, and the agent offered a telephone
number for the make mentioned by Mr J so that he could seek assistance under the
manufacturers warranty. D&G said it was unable to supply a repairer for this manufacturer
but accepted that it had offered the customer the option of a pay and claim on the
understanding that the appliance was of the make Mr J had specified. It also accepted that it
had confirmed to Mr J that it registered on behalf of various companies and then listed well-
known makes. D&G concluded that the plan should be cancelled and refunded as it didnt
cover the relevant make. Its since provided evidence of its sales website showing that it
doesnt offer cover on the make.
D&G said that in all the circumstances, it had been happy to refund premiums paid on the
appliances but didnt consider it was responsible for the confusion over the make and age of
them, as this was advised to us by the customer. Ive noted from its case notes that D&G
recognised that someone should have picked up that it didnt cover this brand. It also
recognised that Mr J had been chasing the matter and so it should have cancelled earlier.
As the make of the cooker hood registered by D&G was not its actual make, I must consider
certain legislative provisions. These provisions are in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and the service has a settled approach to
complaints when it applies. The Act says that its the duty of the consumer to take
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer. If a misrepresentation is
deliberate or reckless, an insurer may avoid the insurance contract, refuse claims, and retain
premiums. If a consumer fails to take care, the insurer still has remedies it can rely upon,
provided its a qualifying misrepresentation, that is where the insurer wouldnt have offered
the policy if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
Ive carefully considered the submissions of both parties and have concluded on a
provisional basis that there has been confusion on both sides. Whilst I dont doubt that a
D&G sales representative may have first contacted Mr J to sell a policy, Ive listened to the
telephone call when Mr J registered his appliances. Its clear that this call was initiated by Mr
J. I recognise that Mr J may not have been entirely ready with the exact details of the cooker
hood or other appliances. Ive noted from this telephone call however that Mr J clearly said
that the appliances were of a particular make and therefore, contrary to Mr Js submission,
he didnt give all the required details for the product. I can understand that as a make sticker
appeared on the two other appliances, he may have assumed that the cooker hood was alsoof that make. However, this doesnt alter the fact that this was a mistaken assumption and
that he therefore registered the wrong make with D&G.
Mr J will then have received the relevant policy documents which specified that the cooker
hood was of a particular make and Mr J accepted that he didnt check the policy details. Mr J
also said that he made it clear in the telephone call that he wasnt sure of the brand name.
Having listed to the call however, I consider that Mr J made a clear statement about the
make and didnt mention that he wasnt sure of the make. As to whether he was assured that
D&G would cover all appliances, Ive noted that D&G indicated that it could register on
behalf of all makes and then listed some well-known brands.
D&G said it was unable to supply a repairer for this manufacturer but accepted that it had
offered the customer the option of a pay and claim. It said that this was on the
understanding that the appliance was of the make Mr J had specified. However, this is
incorrect. When it made this statement, it was already aware of the correct make as this had
been described by Mr J in the same telephone call. Its likely that Mr J took this statement on
face value, instructed his own engineer, paid the call-out fee of £50 and purchased a new
cooker hood when his engineer advised replacement.
I agree with our investigator that Mr J had responsibility for providing correct details when
taking out his policy and for then checking that details were correct when he received his
policy documents. The details were clearly incorrect as the wrong make had been specified.
In the circumstances and on a provisional basis, I consider that Mr J made a genuine
mistake but didnt take sufficient care in providing make details on registration and that the
insurers usual remedies under CIDRA therefore applied. As the insurer didnt cover the
make of cooker hood, I consider that if it had been told the correct make at the outset by Mr
J, it would have declined cover. Again, on a provisional basis therefore, as it offered a refund
of premiums, I consider that this was a fair and reasonable outcome.
Nevertheless, I dont consider that D&G acted in an entirely fair and reasonable manner in
all respects. D&G became aware or should have become aware that the details were
incorrect when Mr J telephoned to make a claim in January 2022. It should also have
realised at this point that the correct make wasnt one it supported. Instead it encouraged Mr
J to believe that he could instruct his own engineer and arrange a pay and claim in relation
to the correct make. On a provisional basis I therefore dont consider that D&G had
established all the facts before providing its advice to Mr J in January 2022 and didnt
immediately correct its mistake. It appears that D&G then subsequently realised its mistake.
I also note that Mr J had to chase D&G for a response and hadnt received satisfactory
customer service. On a provisional basis, I therefore conclude that D&G should pay modest
compensation of £150 for the confusion and frustration caused by it failing to correctly advise
Mr J and to then immediately correct its mistake.
Again, on a provisional basis, I dont however consider that D&G has acted in an unfair or
unreasonable manner in cancelling the relevant policy and refunding M Js premiums as he
had taken out a policy for the incorrect make. I appreciate that Mr J then had to pay his own
engineer a call-out fee of £50 who advised that the cooker hood should be replaced and that
Mr J then went ahead to buy a new cooker hood and to pay for its fitting. I consider however
that on the balance of probabilities, even if D&G had provided the correct advice in January
2022, Mr J would still have needed to proceed with the same course of action. I appreciate
that this will come as a disappointment for Mr J, however in all the circumstances of the
case, I provisionally conclude that this provides a fair and reasonable outcome.
In my provisional decision, I also asked both D&G and Mr J if they had any further comments 
or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J hasnt provided any further information or evidence following my provisional decision 
and D&G has accepted the provisional decision.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Js complaint and I require Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc to pay Mr J £150 for the frustration caused to Mr J during the course 
of his customer experience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman