DRN-3045320
The complaint
Mr U complains, via his representatives, about the decline of his claim for fire damage to his 
commercial premises under his Business Insurance Policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
What happened
Mr U claimed to AXA in April 2020 and it appointed loss adjusters to consider the claim. AXA 
said when Mr U made his claim it decided its loss adjusters could deal with it and the loss 
adjusters accepted liability in July 2020. AXA said that subsequently when the tender for the 
work was received with costs exceeding £100,000 it was evident that AXA needed to make 
the decisions.
AXA engaged forensic investigators to identify the cause of the fire, which it said was due to 
the failure of an energised power cable. AXA said the report stated that this cable could have 
been isolated by Mr U using the cut-off switch located in the basement. AXA said Mr Us 
policy has a Vacant Premises Condition that requires all mains services to be switched off 
at the mains. It said the fire was a consequence of the failure to comply with the conditions, 
which are precedent to liability under the policy. AXA declined the claim in January 2021 and 
said the vacancy condition should have been considered by its loss adjusters.
Mr Us representatives complained to AXA that the claim was declined several months after 
liability had been accepted and after significant costs had been incurred by Mr U. They said 
AXA was aware of all the facts in June 2020 and have breached enterprise and insurance 
act in that AXA had failed to treat Mr U fairly in declining his claim. And that Mr U isnt an 
electrical engineer and should be treated as a layman, and as such wouldnt have known 
what switched off at the mains meant. Mr Us representatives said AXA hadnt identified the 
cause of the fire and the policy doesnt define what is meant by unoccupied. They said that 
in any event Mr U was using the premises for his own purposes and so it wasnt unoccupied. 
AXA acknowledged that its decision to decline liability for the claim should have been 
reached much sooner, but said a failure to investigate the vacancy condition by the loss 
adjusters held things up. AXA also acknowledged the loss adjusters had accepted liability, 
that it then declined, but said the costs incurred by Mr U for the surveyor, arranging the 
schedule of works, the tender process and analysis, would have been required in any event. 
AXA said it would meet any costs Mr U incurred due to the previous decision to accept 
liability that werent inevitable, and it paid Mr U £200 compensation for the delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said its standard practice for 
insurers to require mains services to be switched off to lower the risk of an unoccupied 
property. He said the expert reported the fire most likely was a result of an electrical defect 
and had the mains been turned off it wouldve prevented an electrical fault. He said this 
failed the vacancy condition and there was no real ambiguity about what this meant.
The investigator said AXAs decisions on the claim had caused around six months avoidable 
delay, but this had no effect on the ultimate claim decision. He thought AXAs payment of 
£200 compensation for this was fair.
Mr Us representatives disagreed with the investigator. They said AXAs delay was unfair 
and unnecessary as it had the expert report months before its claim decision. They said the 
property wasnt unoccupied as Mr U was storing his contents. They said there was no 
definition in the policy of mains services. Mr Us representatives requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Us representatives have said it is unfair for AXA to decline a claim its loss adjusters had 
previously accepted. AXA said this has had no effect on the ultimate outcome of the claim 
and paid Mr U £200 compensation for the delay.
Its certainly not ideal for a policyholder to have a claim accepted and then declined and I 
sympathise with Mr U for having his expectations raised and then dashed. AXA said its loss 
adjusters decided on the claim without considering the vacancy condition. When a business 
makes a mistake we dont generally expect it to abide by the error unless there are 
irreversible consequences for the consumer. AXAs decision to decline the claim was made 
about two months after the tenders for the repair works were received and AXA has said it 
will meet any evidenced costs incurred by Mr U that were due to the initial decision on his 
claim. I think that is fair. 
The key issue for me to consider is one of causation of the fire and the impact of this on the 
conditions in Mr Us policy. We are not experts in determining the causes of fire and so we 
have to rely on the available expert evidence. In this case that is the forensic fire report 
provided by the consulting scientists and engineers instructed by AXA. The consultant 
reported:
In view of the available evidence, I consider that the fire was most likely the result of an 
electrical defect at the joint of the PILC cable. Such a fire would most likely be the result of a 
resistive heating defect at the joint, which would rely on one or more items of electrical 
equipment having been left on and operating in the building, but it is also conceivable that 
water (either from nearby pipework or from a spill onto the floor above) resulted in water 
ingress into the joint, which could have led to a tracking fault. 
I think that the cause of the fire has been reasonably established by the consultant as 
originating in a power cable that remained energised when the property was vacated by Mr 
Us previous tenant. The consultant said the fuse box is located away from the mains 
isolation switch, which is in the basement. The consultant said that just isolating at the fuse 
doesnt isolate the power, as the cable remains energised. 
Mr Us representatives said he switched the power off at the fuse box and isnt an electrical 
engineer and should be treated as a layman, and as such wouldnt have known what 
switched off at the mains means. AXA said he could be expected to locate and isolate an 
electrical mains switch and understand the difference between a mains switch and a fuse 
box. And AXA added that Mr U is the landlord of other commercial properties, not all of 
which are occupied. 
I have considered what Mr Us policy says about vacant premises and mains services:
GSL10 VACANT PREMISES CONDITION
It is a condition precedent to liability under this Policy that in respect of unoccupied premisesor portions thereof:
(iii) all mains services are turned/switched off at the mains and drained as applicable unless
renovation works are being undertaken.
The consultant reported on the vacancy condition, which is standard within commercial and 
residential insurance policies:
Regarding the Vacant Premises Condition I would note that the condition of the property 
would not have complied with any of the six clauses of the condition (i.e. Clause i. to vi.). 
However, other than Clause (iii)., the clauses are not directly relevant to the cause of the fire. 
Nevertheless, Clause iii, which requires the isolation of the services at the mains, is 
particularly significant as if that had complied with and the electricity supply isolated at the 
mains then it would have prevented an electrical defect at the PILC cable from occurring.
I think the clear intention of the policy is that the power to vacant buildings is switched off 
and this should be at the mains. I think this is a reasonable expectation of an insurer 
because of the increased risk posed by buildings that are unoccupied, and I dont think Mr U 
has met this requirement. Whatever underlying fault may or may not have been present to 
affect the power supply, the fire originated from an energised power cable. It also seems 
clear that the power cable could and should have been switched off. I accept the expert 
evidence that had the electricity been switched off as per the policy condition the fire would 
not have occurred. 
According to Mr Us brokers the insured property had been vacant since September 2018 
when his tenant departed. Mr Us representatives say he was using the premises, but 
elsewhere said he visits to inspect once a week, with the power shut down at the fuse box. 
Photos show that stock from the departed business tenant remains in situ with a jumble of 
contents upstairs. 
Mr Us representatives correctly point out that the policy doesnt define unoccupancy. Ive 
taken the Oxford English Dictionary definition of occupy, which states; reside or have ones 
place of business in (a building). I havent seen any evidence that Mr U was occupying the 
insured premises in any normal sense of the term and so I think it was reasonable for AXA to 
apply the vacancy condition from his policy.
Mr Us representatives said that AXA has breached the enterprise and insurance act. The 
Enterprise Act 2016 (through amendment of the Insurance Act 2015) introduces an implied 
term to every contract of insurance that insurers must pay any valid claims within a 
reasonable time. However, this isnt relevant in circumstances where liability doesnt apply, 
and I havent found that AXA has treated Mr U unfairly or unreasonably in its decision to 
decline his claim. 
Other than the delay that AXA caused to Mr U I havent found other detriment that hes 
suffered from AXAs actions towards him. And so, I dont think that AXA has caused a 
breach of the Enterprise Act or the Insurance Act as suggested by Mr Us representatives. I 
think the £200 compensation AXA has paid Mr U for the delayed decision on his claim is fair 
in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman