DRN-2968597
The complaint
Mr L says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) has not done enough to 
repair and redress its breach of service/duty of care to him, arising from breach of its data 
protection obligation towards him  with regards to his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). He has also referred the matter to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
What happened
The details of Mr Ls case include confidential and sensitive personal information, which will 
not  and do not need to  be set out in this decision. The reason being to safeguard said 
confidentiality and to maintain his anonymity, given that this decision will be published. The 
background summarised below is enough for the purpose of addressing his complaint.
Mr L held his SIPP with HL at the time of the relevant events.
In 2018 a third party presented to HL a Letter of Authority (LoA) granting access to 
Mr Ls SIPP. The LoA was dated in 2017.
In 2020 the third party sought specific information about the SIPP. HL concedes that, 
in response, it provided more information than was required. However, it says it did 
nothing wrong in responding to the request  and in doing so without prior notice to 
or authority from Mr L at the time  because the LoA remained valid/active and it had 
no reason to consider otherwise. It apologised for providing information that was 
surplus to requirement and offered Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset this caused, 
but it does not accept that what it did amounts to a significant data protection breach.
Mr L says the opposite. He says HL committed a serious data protection breach in 
his case and that it had a minimum obligation to give him notice at the time of the 
third partys request and to seek (and obtain) his authority prior to any disclosure to 
the third party. He also says HL could not reasonably have thought the 2017 LoA 
remained valid/active because the circumstances it related to were no longer relevant 
in 2020; and that HL compounded its wrongdoing in the matter by making misleading 
references to an LoA from him at the time that did not exist and to another non-
existent document. Mr L also asserts that HL mishandled his enquiries and complaint 
about the matter, and that its £100 offer was/is derisory given the seriousness of its 
wrongdoings.
One of our investigators looked into the case and concluded that HLs offer to Mr L is 
reasonable. She found that HL had admitted it provided the third party with more information 
than required; that it has subsequently asked that party to delete the excess information from 
its records; that it does not accept its action amounted to a significant data protection 
breach, but that is a matter for the ICO to investigate; and that it is evident Mr L was caused 
trouble and distress in the matter but the £100 HL offered is consistent with what she would 
have awarded in the circumstances.
Mr L said he retained his view that the offer is inadequate in the context of the seriousness 
of HLs wrongdoings, but he would accept it on the condition that HL provides evidence of its 
request to the third party that the excess information be deleted and evidence that the third 
party has complied with the request and has deleted the excess information  or evidence 
that HL has, at least, applied its best efforts to ensure its request was carried out. Thereafter, 
he cited a delay in HLs provision of this evidence as grounds on which he had decided to 
withdraw his conditional acceptance of the offer. He also said (or at least suggested) that HL 
must be held to account and, essentially, punished for its actions. The investigator then 
updated him to say she had received and listened to telephone recording evidence that 
showed HL had contacted the third party to delete the excess information, and that she was 
satisfied with the evidence. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I commend Mr Ls referral of the matter to the ICO, as that is a natural forum for concerns 
and issues about data protection breaches. I also understand why he referred the matter to 
us, given that it relates to HLs service to him as his SIPP provider. However, as the 
investigator explained, we do not have a punitive remit so the punishment for wrongdoings 
that he appears to seek is beyond what we can provide. As he will be aware, we are also not 
the industry regulator, so if he has concerns about his case for which he seeks, specifically, 
regulatory treatment, such treatment is also beyond our remit.
Mr L has helpfully shared with us what appears to be a determination by the ICO on the 
referral he made to them. It is not clear if the contents are or are not confidential, so I will not 
set them out. However, it is sufficient to say that the ICOs determination appears to have 
been given and it has referred to the next steps Mr L can consider and/or take independent 
legal advice on. I will not be duplicating the ICOs role in this matter, so I make no finding to 
repeat, add to or substitute what the ICO found. 
HL concedes that it provided more information than required. Mr L appears to say that was 
its second wrongdoing and that its first wrongdoing was that it should not have provided any 
information to the third party  but did  because the 2017 LoA was insufficient to justify 
such disclosure. Then he says HL mishandled his enquiries and complaint about the matter.
The question of whether (or not) HL was right to disclose information on Mr Ls SIPP based 
on the 2017 LoA was a key part of what the ICO addressed so, like I said above, I make no 
finding on it. I also do not consider that I need to make such a finding because the complaint 
that has been referred to this service now has its focus mainly on the excess information that 
HL provided to the third party. As I said above, Mr L was prepared to settle the complaint 
with the £100 payment proposal on the condition that HLs actions in repairing the excess 
information matter could be evidenced.
I too have listened to the recording that HL has shared with us. On balance, and like the 
investigator, I am satisfied it stands as evidence that HL pursued deletion of the excess 
information (by the third party) as it undertook to do. It is not reasonable to expect HL to 
police the steps taken by the third party, at the third partys end of the matter, but I agree 
with Mr Ls assertion that HLs efforts in the matter should at least  be meaningful and that it 
should be following through on its request to the third party. The recording I have listened to 
shows that HLs efforts were sincere and meaningful, and that it followed through on its 
request to the third party.
The balance of available evidence is that HL provided the excess disclosure because it applied its standard disclosure process to the third partys request. That was clearly an error 
and HL accepts that it was. Mr L was quite prompt in raising his enquiries and complaint 
about the matter, he appears to have started this around a week after the disclosure. Some 
erroneous comments from HL appear to have misled him, but I do not consider that they 
were of grave consequences. I can also see that HL made a few equally inconsequential 
mistakes in its engagement with him, such as sending him copies of the wrong documents. 
Overall, I consider that the key consequence Mr L was concerned about was the disclosure 
(and the excess disclosure), so whilst HLs responses to his queries were somewhat clumsy 
in parts, I am persuaded that HL sincerely sought to meet his enquiries, that it did not act in 
bad faith and that only a small degree of trouble and upset was caused by its mistakes. The 
main trouble and upset to Mr L appear to have been caused by the disclosure itself.
Overall, on balance, for the above reasons and in terms of the excess disclosure and HLs 
mistakes in addressing Mr Ls enquiries, I am not persuaded that £100 is an unreasonable 
amount to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused. The effect of the excess 
disclosure appears to have been limited by HLs reasonable efforts to have the excess 
information deleted by the third party and the few mistakes in its engagement with Mr L were 
not of a serious type. I do not consider that HL should have to offer him more than what it 
has offered.
Putting things right
I order HL to pay Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him as addressed above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I endorse (and order) Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limiteds offer to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset 
caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman