DRN-3571608
The complaint
Miss F complains West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) overcharged her for her motor 
insurance policy and she wants a full refund.
There are several parties and representatives of West Bay involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to West Bay.
What happened
In March 2021 Miss F took out a motor insurance policy with West Bay. The application was 
completed online by Miss F. West Bay emailed Miss F, as she had requested, to confirm her 
documentation had been uploaded to the online portal and it gave her details of how to sign 
into it. 
In September 2021 Miss F changed her car and contacted West Bay to update her policy 
details. The quotation was initially declined for the new car. West Bay looked into this and 
noticed that Miss Fs policy was set up with an annual mileage of 100,000. It reduced this to 
10,000 miles per year. A quote was then given for the new car with the reduced mileage.
The price quoted for the insurance policy for the new car with an annual mileage of 10,000 
was higher than the price for the previous car. Miss F felt that as the mileage had been 
reduced, the price of the policy should have reduced.
West Bay said it had not made an error. It confirmed the increased price of the policy 
premium for the new car with an annual mileage of 10,000 was correct.
West Bay said Miss F had obtained her policy online and that she had entered the annual 
mileage as 100,000. It said whilst it did not agree that it had made an error in relation to the 
pricing of her policy, it accepted she did not drive 100,000 miles per year. It recalculated the 
cost of the policy premiums taken out in March 2021 to reflect an annual mileage of 10,000 
and refunded her the difference in cost.
As Miss F was not happy with West Bay, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and did not think 
West Bay had overcharged Miss F for the full year. And it had been fair with the 
reimbursement in relation to the mileage discrepancy.
As Miss F is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to understand that were not the industry regulator. That means I dont have 
the power to tell an insurer or broker how much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it my 
role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when assessing risk.
When calculating what premium to charge individual policyholders, West Bay will take 
numerous different factors into account  these are likely to include, but are not limited to, 
the car itself, the policyholders postcode, the age of the drivers, the number of fault claims 
and non-fault claims etc. And different insurers assess risk differently. What is high risk to 
one insurer may not be to another. Individual insurers may also use different data when 
assessing the risk posed. But thats not unusual or unfair. 
We cannot tell West Bay (or any insurer) that it should use, or discount, specific data. Thats 
because the risk is West Bays to take on so it will decide how to assess it and will price the 
policies it offers accordingly. Prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks 
are that year for all of its customers.
Providing they treat people fairly, insurers and brokers are entitled to charge what they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk. So although I cannot tell West Bay how much to charge 
Miss F, I can look at whether it treated her fairly throughout the time she held her car 
insurance.
Miss F is unhappy she had to pay an additional premium when she changed her car in 
September 2021 and felt that the incorrect mileage that had been recorded for her previous 
car had created this increase. Miss F said she had found cheaper quotes and wanted a full 
refund.
When Miss F obtained her policy online in March 2021 she entered the annual mileage as 
100,000. I saw that West Bay provided her a welcome pack that included the details of the 
policy. This included a request for all the information to be checked and instruction to contact 
West Bay if any of the detail was incorrect.  
I do not think it is unreasonable for West Bay to assume that everything was correct as there 
had been no contact from Miss F to make it aware of the incorrect mileage. 
When Miss F contacted West Bay because she wanted to change the insured car, the 
mistake with the mileage was noticed. 
West Bay said the policy premiums had increased due to a change in risk on the insured car. 
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. 
West Bay provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how 
Miss Fs insurance prices were calculated. Im afraid I cant share that, but Ive checked it 
carefully. 
I saw evidence that shows when the details of the car was changed, the annual mileage was 
also adjusted to 10,000. Im satisfied the price quoted was calculated correctly and all of 
West Bays customers in Miss Fs position will have been charged a similar premium. I do 
not think West Bay has treated Miss F any differently to its other customers or been unfair in 
its pricing. 
I am satisfied the refund given to Miss F for the difference in premium when the annual 
mileage of the car insured in March 2021 was reduced from 100,000 to 10,000 is correct. I 
dont think a full refund is due as Miss F has been insured for the duration of the policy. I 
think the refund given is fair and dont think any further reimbursement is required.Therefore, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint and do not require West Bay to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman