DRN-2971743
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund cash withdrawals 
to her when she didnt receive the money.
What happened
Miss M disputes five cash withdrawals made on different days using her bank card. These 
totalled £710 before withdrawal fees and Miss M says she didnt receive any cash. She 
explains that she is in financial difficulty and cant pay her bills.
Halifax said that it had permanently refunded the third of the disputed withdrawals which was 
for £220 made on 25 February 2021. This is because the machine involved didnt balance. It 
said that it gave Miss M the benefit of the doubt having noted that the money left in the 
machine didnt correspond to the amount she had tried to withdraw. It said that it had looked 
into the other cash withdrawals and was satisfied that these were correctly dispensed. 
Halifax had paid Miss M £50 in compensation when it refunded the withdrawal with machine 
fee on 4 March 2021. And it also paid her £37 in compensation on 24 March 2021 for poor 
customer service when she tried to call. Miss M has an instant savings account, and Halifax 
explained this went into an overdrawn balance because it had initially refunded the first and 
second withdrawals but re-debited them on 22 March 2021. It had then still allowed Miss M 
to make withdrawals against government credits to her account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he was 
satisfied from the evidence provided by Halifax which included information from the cash 
machine owners that the money had been dispensed for the four outstanding disputed 
withdrawals. Halifax had also provided copies of letters to Miss M about the withdrawals. 
And these explained that the refunds of the first and second withdrawals of £170 and £100 
were temporary pending investigation. Miss M had been able to withdraw this money before 
it was re-debited. And this had resulted in borrowing when these were re-debited to her 
account. The compensation of £37 had been paid into the account and partly offset the 
borrowing. Miss M had been able to withdraw all the money paid to her by the government 
but had to visit a branch to do so.
Miss M didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She maintained that she 
never received her money. And that she wouldnt be going through all this if she had. Miss M 
wasnt happy that this service was saying that she had taken the money. She emphasised 
that she was in rent arrears and needed to support her family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult personal circumstances for Miss M and I understand how 
important the outcome of the complaint is to her.
Im going to make my assessment based on the evidence that is available and Ill be thinking 
about what is most likely. There was some uncertainty about what was in dispute when   
Miss M first referred her complaint to this service. And Im going to repeat what the 
investigator summarised about those in his further opinion to Miss M for clarity.
The disputed withdrawals are:
1) 19 February 2021  £170 (plus fees of £0.99)
2) 24 February 2021  £100 (plus fess of £0.99)
3) 25 February 2021  £220 (plus fees of £1.25)
4)  5 March 2021       £100
5) 19 March 2021      £120
Withdrawals 1 and 2 above are shown as taking place at the same cash machine. And the 
others are at three different ones. I note that Miss M made two withdrawals for £40 at 
another cash machine on 8 March 2021 that she hasnt disputed. So, her position on the 
complaint is that four different cash machines malfunctioned and one of those did so twice. 
Halifax as I would expect looked into all these claims and contacted the cash machine 
owners for information. It has provided journal rolls which show the use of Miss Ms card in 
the machines and information about whether the machines balanced or not. The machine 
involved in the third withdrawal didnt balance by £70. That can happen if notes are rejected 
or there is an error. Here that difference couldnt account for the full amount of Miss Ms 
withdrawal, but it decided to refund it. I wont be going behind that and I dont need to make 
a finding about it.
Having considered the evidence about the other four Im afraid Im not persuaded there was 
an individual error with any of them. And here I also think those individual findings are 
reinforced by what I additionally judge to be the low likelihood of the multiple errors Miss M 
claims across the different cash machines involved, and also when during the period Miss M 
was able to make successful withdrawals. Im not persuaded on balance that any of 
withdrawals 1,2,4 and 5 as set out above werent correctly dispensed to Miss M.
When Miss M made her first two claims Halifax had no particular reason to doubt that they 
were genuine ones. And so, it refunded the money to her and Miss M had the benefit of that 
money. It didnt refund withdrawals 3,4 and 5 at the time given the number of claims Miss M 
had by then made. But it did as Ive said refund withdrawal 3 -  and I note this was on 4 
March 2021. It had considered the claims separately and having looked into withdrawals 1 
and 2 decided not to uphold these and re-debited them on 22 March 2021 which resulted in 
a debit balance on her account. Ive seen that it allowed her to withdraw the government 
payments she received from that date but not the £37 in compensation which reduced the 
borrowing. 
I accept that the timing of the refund and redebit to the account was unfortunate. Because 
Miss M who explains she has financial difficulties was able to withdraw money that Halifax 
then said she wasnt entitled to. However, it responded to the claims of disputed payments 
she made, and I dont find it has made any error in deciding on those. Had these been found 
in her favour there would be no negative balance. I think that the compensation it has paid 
into her account was appropriate. And so, I know that Im going to disappoint Miss M when I 
say that I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything further. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax need take no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman