DRN-4172408
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Birmingham Midshires 
dealt with the repossession of a property he owned. 
What happened
In 2005, Mr B took out a buy-to-let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. 
In 2018, the mortgage fell into arrears. In 2019, Birmingham Midshires obtained a 
possession order. In January 2020, Birmingham Midshires appointed Law of Property Act 
receivers (the receivers) to manage the property on behalf of Mr B. In August 2021, the 
receivers handed the property back to Birmingham Midshires. The property was sold in May 
2022.
Mr B complains about the way that Birmingham Midshires acted in taking possession of the 
property, including:
It took too long for Birmingham Midshires to repossess and sell the property. He wants 
Birmingham Midshires to refund interest and fees applied during the delay. 
He should not have to pay any third parties costs. 
The sale was handled poorly. There was a fixed price of £99,000 agreed. 
Birmingham Midshires had not properly taken possession of the property.
Birmingham Midshires had written to him at an address hed not given to it.
The property was broken into and the locks changed.
The repairs to the roof were unnecessary and were not of sufficient quality.
The property was in a worse condition than when he left it and is now worth less 
because of what Birmingham Midshires did  and did not  do.
He will be left liable for any shortfall on sale of the property. 
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B did not accept what the 
investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
what complaint I am dealing with 
Mr B referred this complaint to us on 10 May 2022. I can only consider the complaints that 
Mr B referred to us on that date. So I cant consider events that happened after that or which 
did not form part of the original complaint that Mr B made. That includes the points about 
access to his possessions and the final amount of the shortfall. I accept those matters might 
be connected to the complaint he has brought here  and I accept they are important to Mr 
B. But we cant add things on once weve begun our investigation. 
Mr B would need to complain directly to Birmingham Midshires about any matters not dealt 
with here  and if he already has and it has issued a final response or eight weeks have 
passed, Mr B could refer those complaints to us, if he wishes. 
Time taken by Birmingham Midshires to sell the property
When Mr B took out the mortgage, it was a buy-to-let mortgage. It isnt in dispute that it was 
Mr Bs intention to let the property. But I agree with Mr B that it isnt clear that the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage prevented him living in the property. In fact, (presumably due to 
an error) the mortgage offer says that Mr B must use the property as your main and private 
homeyou must not letthe property. This conflicts with other terms of the offer that 
required a written tenancy agreement to be in place and other restrictions.
Nevertheless, it was clearly both parties intention for the mortgage to be let when it was 
taken out. In the circumstances, it isnt unreasonable for Birmingham Midshires to hold Mr B 
to that. 
On 2 September 2019, Birmingham Midshires obtained a possession order against Mr B. I 
consider it was reasonable to do so in view of the arrears on the mortgage. There is no set 
time for the lender to enforce its possession. What is reasonable will depend on the 
circumstances of each case. And while I understand Mr Bs concern that it took until May 
2022 to sell the property, I dont consider that that the time it took was due to any 
unreasonable delay by Birmingham Midshires. I will explain my reasons why.
This was an investment property. Usually, where there is a breach of contract, such as 
arrears, a lender would not need a court order to take possession of the property. But it can 
obtain one. And that might be the right thing if the borrower was (or had been) living at the 
property. But Im afraid Mr B is wrong to say that there was any requirement for Birmingham 
Midshires to obtain a warrant of eviction. 
Once it had obtained the possession order, Birmingham Midshires has provided evidence 
that it wrote to Mr B at the property address in November and December 2019 asking him to 
contact it. Birmingham Midshires said it spoke to Mr B in January 2020. Mr B disputes this. 
Looking at the evidence, it looks like it was a third party that spoke with Mr B rather than 
Birmingham Midshires. But I dont think whether Mr B spoke with Birmingham Midshires or a 
third party at that point or not makes any difference to the outcome here. This was not a 
straightforward case. I consider it was reasonable in the circumstances for Birmingham 
Midshires to attempt to establish contact with Mr B. The time taken to do so was not 
excessive. It reflected that Birmingham Midshires had some concerns about Mr Bs welfare  
although I know he doesnt see it like that. 
Birmingham Midshires appointed receivers in January 2020. The receivers were acting on 
behalf of Mr B  not Birmingham Midshires. So any complaint about any acts or omissions 
by the receivers would need to be directed to the receivers. Birmingham Midshires is not 
responsible for the receivers actions.
What happened between January 2020, when the receivers were appointed, and August 2021, was largely a result of things the receivers did. I dont consider Birmingham Midshires 
is responsible for that. I havent seen any evidence that the receivers were acting on specific 
instructions from Birmingham Midshires in regard to any of the points Mr B has complained 
about. So I dont consider that Birmingham Midshires treated Mr B unfairly between January 
2020 and August 2021. That includes the following points that Mr B has complained about:
The property was broken into and the locks changed. That was a decision made by the 
receivers, not Birmingham Midshires. 
The repair of the roof  if that was necessary and if the work was carried out to a 
reasonable standard. Birmingham Midshires involvement was limited to passing a 
statutory notice to repair the roof from the local council to the receivers.
That leaves the time it took from Birmingham Midshires receiving the property back from the 
receivers in August 2021 and the property being sold in May 2022.
I can see that Birmingham Midshires acted quickly once it had control of the property. It had 
a valuation report carried out on 1 September 2021, which valued the property at £90,000, 
with a value of £85,000 for a sale within 28 days. It also had a market appraisal by an estate 
agent, who recommended an asking price of £95,000, with a predicted sale price of £90,000 
if the property was sold in 90 days.
The property was marketed soon afterwards. I can see that from 30 September 2021 until 
January 2022, Birmingham Midshires received 15 offers. They were rejected for a number of 
reasons, including that the offer was too low, an offer was made and then withdrawn, and 
because the buyer wasnt able to show they had funds available.
The offer that was accepted was for £93,500 in January 2022. That was in line with the 
valuations. Looking at the evidence we have, I dont consider that Birmingham Midshires 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. It had a duty to obtain the best price possible, while 
balancing that against the time it took to sell the property. The offer it accepted was in line 
with the valuations it received and I dont consider it was unreasonable for Birmingham 
Midshires to allow the property to be on the market for around four months. It took until May 
2022 for the sale to complete. The timescale for the sale to complete was not unusual or 
unreasonable. There is no evidence of any fixed price being agreed. 
Overall, I dont consider that Birmingham Midshires caused any unreasonable delays. During 
most of the time Mr B complains about, the property was under the control of the receiver  
and Birmingham Midshires is not responsible for that. 
When Mr B took out the mortgage, he agreed to pay interest on the outstanding balance. It 
was reasonable therefore for Birmingham Midshires to apply interest until the mortgage was 
repaid. 
As Mr B owed Birmingham Midshires money, it was reasonable for it to employ a company 
to trace his address so it could contact him.Third party costs
The terms and conditions of the mortgage that Mr B accepted said that he would pay the 
lenders costs and expenses in connection with administering the mortgage. So it was 
entitled to pass on any costs it incurred, including legal fees, receivers fees and costs in 
maintaining and selling the property. I have not considered whether the amount of the fees 
and costs was fair and reasonable  only that Birmingham Midshires was entitled to pass 
those fees on to Mr B. 
Condition of property
As explained, for a large part of the period in question, the receiver was in control of the 
property. So Birmingham Midshires would not be responsible for any deterioration in the 
condition of the property during that time. In any case, I dont consider the evidence we have 
supports that the condition of the property was due to any acts or omissions by Birmingham 
Midshires. We have evidence that in September 2019, Mr B told Birmingham Midshires that 
he was unable to rent the property because it was in a state of disrepair. The various reports 
carried out by third parties since then, also do not support that any deterioration was due to 
Birmingham Midshires, rather than being pre-existing. 
Mr B found himself in a difficult position. He ended up living in one of his investment 
properties after some very tough personal circumstances. Then, when the rules changed, he 
couldnt claim support for mortgage interest. That meant he couldnt keep up with his 
mortgage payments. Although I appreciate that a lot of what happened was outside Mr Bs 
control, it doesnt follow that Birmingham Midshires acted unfairly or unreasonably. Id note 
that the Covid pandemic and associated restrictions happened during the time in question. 
That is likely to have made things more difficult than they otherwise would have been. 
After careful consideration, I am satisfied Birmingham Midshires has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman