DRN-3445582
The complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) unfairly decided to 
process several disputed payments. 
What happened
Mr J raised a dispute with AMEX for payments that were made from his credit card to a 
merchant that he had a vehicle rental agreement with. Mr J complained after AMEX decided 
he was liable for the payments  hes unhappy that AMEX processed the payments even 
though he asked it not to. 
AMEX stood by its decision in its response, referring to the evidence provided by the 
merchant that AMEX felt proved the charges were valid and in line with the merchants 
terms.
Remaining unhappy, Mr J referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator concluded 
that AMEX had acted fairly. The investigator referred to the agreement Mr J made with the 
merchant, as well as the merchants terms and said AMEX had fairly relied on this to 
process the payments. Mr J didnt agree and asked for a final decision  so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the view that AMEX acted fairly and Ill explain why.
Mr J says he asked AMEX to stop these payments from processing, so it shouldnt have 
later gone against his request. Ive looked at a transcript of the online chat Mr J and AMEX 
had during which he made this request. I can see from here that AMEX pointed out at the 
time that a payment to this merchant was pending so it couldnt take any action until after the 
merchant claimed the funds. 
AMEX explained that it could raise a dispute with the merchant if the payment processes  
at which point it would investigate and determine whether Mr J is liable for the funds. I cant 
see that AMEX confirmed it would outright block the payment. Mr J later disputed the 
payments and AMEX investigated the matter as set out in its chat with Mr J. The terms of 
Mr Js credit card agreement also set out the dispute process that AMEX would follow and it 
seems to me that AMEX did indeed follow its process as described. So Im satisfied that 
AMEX acted in line with what it said it would do.
The terms of Mr Js credit card agreement explain that transactions are considered as 
authorised if requested by presenting or providing the card or card details  and this can be 
for a payment occurring in the future. I can see from the rental agreement Mr J had with the 
merchant that his card details were provided  so it seems to me that Mr J authorised the 
transactions. 
AMEX says it declined Mr Js dispute because the merchant submitted evidence that 
showed the charges were valid. I think AMEX acted reasonably in doing so. Mr Js rental 
agreement (which he seems to have signed) sets out that, by signing, Mr J authorises the 
merchant to charge all charges related to the rental agreement  including road toll charges, 
traffic fines and service fees that the merchant becomes aware of after the rental agreement 
ends. 
The file AMEX provided us with includes a copy of the traffic violation Mr Js rental vehicle 
was seen to have committed. Its not for me to say whether the traffic fine is valid. Nor can I 
make a finding on whether Mr Js submissions - that the rental vehicle was not in use at the 
time or that the number plate had allegedly been cloned  - is sufficient to question the validity 
of the traffic fine. My powers only allow me to consider whether AMEX fairly relied on the 
merchants submissions. Based on what Ive seen, in my opinion AMEX fairly relied on the 
merchants submission to conclude that Mr J was liable for the payment. The terms he 
agreed to under the rental agreement refers to such a charge, so it seems to me that Mr J 
was charged in line with those terms.
Mr J thinks AMEX shouldve done more to investigate the traffic violation. But this isnt 
AMEXs role and it doesnt have the power to reverse the fine. AMEX couldve only 
considered whether the merchant charged Mr J in line with the agreement he and the 
merchant had  and I think AMEX fairly decided that the merchant charged Mr J correctly. If 
Mr J genuinely thinks that he was wrongly identified as having committed the traffic violation 
in question, as our investigator pointed out, this is something he needs to pursue either with 
the merchant directly, or with the relevant authorities.
So, for these reasons, it is my opinion that AMEX fairly decided that Mr J was liable for the 
payments he now disputes.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman