DRN-1742140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt treat them fairly when a 
fraudster was able to steal money from their accounts.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K hold bank accounts with The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS). 
They explain that in July 2019, a fraudster contacted their mobile phone provider and was 
able to successfully impersonate them. By doing so, the fraudster was apparently able to 
persuade the mobile phone provider to change the registered home address on Mr and 
Mrs Ks mobile phone account. 
Mr and Mrs K explain that the fraudster was then able to persuade the phone provider to 
supply a new SIM card and a Porting Authorisation Code (PAC). This enabled the fraudster 
to move Mr and Mrs Ks phone number to a new provider. 
At this point the fraudster had gained complete control over their mobile account and 
number. This was unknown to Mr and Mrs K at the time because the fraudster had taken the 
precaution of changing their contact details.
It appears the fraudster was then able to install mobile phone banking, and by doing so 
obtained access to Mr and Mrs Ks RBS accounts. Over the course of a single weekend, the 
fraudster made a number of transactions on their accounts. In total, a significant sum was 
withdrawn.
This came to light when Mrs K spoke to RBS using her landline on the Monday morning. 
RBS investigated and fully refunded the money that had been lost. The refunds were made 
within 48 hours of the fraud coming to light.
Mr and Mrs K complain that RBS should have done more. They raise a number of points, 
including the following:
RBS should have identified that the transactions were suspicious and blocked them;
Having done so RBS should have contacted them immediately on their landline 
number, in the knowledge that mobile numbers could be compromised;
RBS should reassure them that this could not happen again and monitor their 
accounts more closely.
 
Mr and Mrs K said RBS should pay them compensation for the stress, anxiety and 
inconvenience they had been caused. They explained Mrs K had to take a week off work as 
a consequence of the fraud and had to make numerous calls - including to the Police and 
her mobile provider. During each call theyd had to repeat the history of what had happened, 
in effect experiencing the upset and distress afresh.
RBS issued its final response. It said it had robust fraud prevention measures in place, but 
that it couldnt prevent all instances of fraud. It said it was sorry it hadnt been able to prevent the fraud on Mr and Mrs Ks account. In compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered by Mr and Mrs K it made them a payment of £100 and sent flowers.
Mr and Mrs K didnt think this was enough. They asked us to look into the matter.
Our investigator reviewed what had happened. He said he recognised the distress and 
inconvenience suffered by Mr and Mrs K. But he thought the bulk of this was due to the 
fraudster, not RBS. He thought the offer made by RBS was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs K disagreed, so I have been asked to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings and for the same reasons.
I feel it is important to say at the very outset I recognise that in what happened, Mr and 
Mrs K were absolutely the victims here, and of an extremely cruel and sophisticated fraud. 
Aside from the steps they had to take in consequence, the fraud had serious emotional and 
financial impacts on them.
In this case, RBS took steps to redress the financial losses that resulted from the actions of 
the fraudster within a matter of days. The distress Mr and Mrs K detail relates to the impact 
on them both of what had happened to them, and the significant amount of work they 
subsequently had to do  putting right the damage caused by the fraudster and helping to 
prevent it from recurring.
As an ombudsman, when Im looking at making an award for distress and inconvenience as 
Mr and Mrs K have asked me to do here, I can only do so where that flows from an error by 
the financial business involved. 
Whats more, any award I make can only reflect the impact that resulted from what the 
business did or didnt do. I cannot make any award to recognise the impact of criminal 
actions taken by another party. Similarly, for example, I have no powers to make a finding or 
an award against a mobile phone provider, even were I to think its security procedures might 
be at fault in some way.
Mr and Mrs K acted quickly to protect themselves. They were vigilant and took the right 
steps to prevent further loss. They are not at fault in what happened. When RBS became 
aware of the issue, I can see it also acted quickly to put the financial losses right. But despite 
all of this, Mr and Mrs K were left with the emotional consequences of the fraudsters 
actions, as well as the considerable inconvenience of the steps they had to take.
I dont underestimate Mr and Mrs Ks distress. They have detailed the consequences and 
the impact of everything that happened. It is clear to me that the episode has had a 
considerable impact on them. Understandably they want compensation for this.
When considering if I think RBSs offer was fair, for the reasons Ive mentioned above, I 
need to think about the sources of that resulting distress and inconvenience  and 
specifically what portion of this is attributable solely to RBS, rather than to other parties.Having considered the sequence of events as described by Mr and Mrs K, I agree with our 
investigator that the principle cause of that distress was the fraudsters actions  in being 
able to compromise their mobile phone account and then using that to steal their money. 
The events that followed all originated here.
Mr and Mrs K say they think RBS could have done more to prevent fraud happening on their 
account, such as by blocking the transactions before they happened. RBS has explained 
that it believes it has robust measures in place. Id acknowledge that banks face a very 
difficult challenge setting the right level of protection to identify and stop the relatively small 
number of fraudulent transactions. This is balanced against the potential inconvenience 
caused to the far larger number of consumers whod be unnecessarily blocked when making 
wholly legitimate transactions.
Unfortunately, the techniques and methods used by criminals to defraud people are 
constantly adapting and evolving to work around measures that banks bring in to protect 
customers. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to expect RBS to be able to completely 
eliminate the risk of fraud, or to find it at fault for not being able to do so.
But even had RBS been able to block the transfers, the fraudster had already compromised 
Mr and Mrs Ks mobile phone account and had seemingly been able to gain information 
about them. So that would still have meant they had to take many of the same steps to put 
things right. They would still have had the distress of having had their security compromised, 
together with the inconvenience and distress involved in notifying the police, their mobile 
provider and changing all of their relevant security details.
So taking everything into account, I think the £100 that RBS has already paid to Mr and 
Mrs K in recognition of this matter is a fair and reasonable award. I know it is a much lower 
sum than Mr and Mrs K would like. I appreciate they would like me to award them a higher 
sum. I know they would like RBS to do more. But as explained above, I can only make an 
award in respect of distress or inconvenience caused by the bank  and I consider that a lot 
of what, very unfortunately, happened to Mr and Mrs K was caused by other parties, 
specifically the actions of the fraudster.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not make any further award 
against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman