DRN-3343485
The complaint
P, a Ltd company, complains that TSB Bank plc failed to dispense money from an ATM but
then deducted the money from their account and declined to refund it.
What happened
P, represented by Mr S, explained that he made two attempts to withdraw cash from an
Automated Teller Machine (ATM). The first attempt was for £400 and Mr S has described
how nothing appeared from the ATM and he thought the machine may be running low on
funds, so he attempted a lesser withdrawal of £100, which also failed to dispense. Mr S
explained that there was no one else behind him when he made the withdrawals.
Mr S contacted TSB around five days later and told them the ATM hadnt dispensed the
money, but the account showed the funds had been debited. TSB made a temporary credit
back to Ps account while they investigated the issue. TSB contacted the operator of the
ATM who provided evidence in the form of a journal role, that the funds had been properly
dispensed and that the ATM records showed a decreasing balance in line with the two
withdrawals made by Mr S.
TSB contacted Mr S and explained that because theyd received evidence the cash had
been properly dispensed; they were holding P liable. They advised the temporary credit
would be taken back and about a week later it was removed from Ps account. Mr S on
behalf of P made a complaint to TSB who didnt change their original position and continued
to decline a refund.
P brought their complaint to our service for an independent review where it was looked into
by one of our investigators. Mr S on behalf of P asked for CCTV footage to be reviewed at
the site of the ATM. Our investigator thought TSB hadnt provided enough evidence to show
the cash was dispensed, particularly whether the ATM was operating properly or that cash
traps or other unauthorised devices were responsible for the loss. Ps complaint was
upheld, but TSB disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of the complaint
by an Ombudsman.
The complaint has now been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And in doing so, Ive reached a different
outcome to our investigator, Ill explain why below.
This is a finely balanced complaint and Ive carefully considered the evidence, including
information provided by the operator of the ATM and the business who service it (to restock
and maintain it).
Our investigator thought that TSB hadnt provided satisfactory evidence to deny P a refund,
so I asked for further enquiries with the ATM owner to be made. The information from them
confirmed that the ATM was operating properly and that there were no reports of devices
being fitted to it, such as cash traps. I havent been able to examine the raw audit data from
the operators of the ATM, only their email responses confirming the operational status of the
ATM. I would have preferred to be able to fully examine this data, but as its not been made
available, Ive assessed what I do have which is a consistent message from TSB, the owner
of the ATM and the merchant who serviced it.
Given the additional information supplied about the operation of the ATM, I dont think that I
can uphold this complaint. Ive examined what was originally supplied by TSB and the
additional testimony from the owners and operators of the ATM. What that says is that on
the day Mr S was using it, the ATM was working properly, the records show it reduced its
balance in line with the two withdrawals, there were no purges recorded ( where damaged
notes are sent to a purge bin), no records of any other problems or reports of unauthorised
devices attached. There were also successful withdrawals both before and after Mr S used
it, with the next withdrawal taking place just over two minutes later.
If the ATM was malfunctioning that day, I would expect to see different records, either to
show money had been moved to the purge bin, or that the balance hadnt changed in line
with the withdrawals. If there were cash traps or other unauthorised devices attached, I
would expect to see a number of complaints about the ATM , but that didnt happen here.
I appreciate what Mr S has said and whilst its possible the ATM didnt dispense the cash; I
dont think its likely based on the evidence provided by TSB and the operator of the ATM.
Mr S asked our service for CCTV footage to be reviewed of the withdrawal. This wasnt
requested as the investigator didnt consider it necessary to come to their outcome. In any
event I dont think it would have been helpful in this case because the records produced by
TSB and the ATM operator indicate the cash was dispensed.
I realise Mr S, on behalf of P will be disappointed, but taking all this information together, I
think its more likely than not the ATM dispensed the cash when both withdrawals were
made.
I invited P and TSB to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. TSB didnt respond and P didnt have anything 
further to add about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman