DRN-2886802
The complaint
Ms Ms complaint is that she believes, given her personal circumstances, she should have 
been sold critical illness cover alongside her mortgage. She was not and that meant when 
she suffered a serious illness, she had no insurance cover she could rely on. She was sold 
her mortgage by Openwork Limited.
What happened
In 2017 Ms M decided to buy a new-built house. Shes told us that the developer 
recommended she use Openwork for advice about a mortgage. 
Ms M contacted Openwork and the fact find that was completed recorded that her needs and 
objectives were for a mortgage and protection. It was detailed that Ms M was single and 
employed with a basic income of £58,000 and a further £22,000 in commission.  She had a 
loan of less than £5,000 and had saved a deposit of nearly £70,000.  Ms Ms monthly 
disposable income was recorded as slightly over £2,100. 
Ms M was buying a property for just over £250,000 and she took a help-to-buy (HTB) loan 
alongside the mortgage to purchase the property. Ms M has recently told us that the property 
she wanted to purchase was only available through the HTB scheme, but she has provided 
no supporting evidence of this.
At the time of the sale of the mortgage, the adviser mentioned protecting it. He confirmed 
during the complaint investigation that the conversation didnt go into any detail about 
protecting the mortgage, as the plan was to discuss this further after the mortgage 
application was sorted out. 
The following month the adviser contacted Ms M. He said that now the mortgage offer had 
been made, he would like to meet her to discuss the next steps; him going over the 
mortgage offer, doing an affordability exercise and discuss insurance options and 
requirements. However, before the meeting happened, the adviser changed job within the 
organisation and responsibility for Ms Ms mortgage arrangements was passed to a new 
adviser. 
The new adviser contacted Ms M several times to book in a call with her to discuss her 
protection needs. It was eventually arranged for 4 December 2017. 
However, there were then delays in Ms Ms new property being built. Openwork arranged for 
the mortgage offer to be extended, but it could only be extended for a short period. As Ms M 
needed more time than that, a new application needed to be made. The adviser looked into 
the available rates with the same lender. She wrote to Ms M on 30 March 2018 and 
confirmed that the delay in the build meant the lender needed a new application. She 
detailed the new mortgage she was recommending and that in the conversation about 
protection, shed identified that Ms M needed cover that would pay the mortgage off in the 
event of serious illness or death. 
In addition, Ms M needed a product to provide her with an income in the event of long-term 
illness. The letter went on to say that a document called Your personal risk and protection 
report, had been given to Ms M and that shed decided that she wanted more time to 
consider her options in relation to protection products. The adviser urged Ms M not to leave 
it too long and reminded her of the cost of an appropriate policy based on the personal risk 
and protection report. 
The personal risk and protection report explained that Openwork had a responsibility to 
make a customer aware of the risks faced and the steps the customer could take to ensure 
that they and their family were adequately protected. This was to ensure they would be able 
to remain in their home in the event of serious and long-term illness or death. It was detailed 
that the biggest risk to Ms M was the risk of being unable to work for two months or more, 
suffering a serious illness or death. To cover the mortgage for all of these events the 
indicative premium was detailed as £214 per month. The cost of covering the mortgage for 
serious illness and death was £106 per month and just death was £21 a month.
Subsequently, Ms M and the adviser attempted to speak to each other on several occasions. 
Unfortunately, they had difficulty in doing so. The adviser emailed Ms M in the middle of 
April 2018 telling her that the new mortgage application was progressing. The adviser said, I 
am aware that we have tried to speak on a number of occasions regarding protecting the 
mortgage for you however, we never seem to be able to speak. The letter went on to 
confirm that the adviser had created some quotes for fully protecting the mortgage in line 
with the previous recommendations. The cost would be £263.56, which she commented was 
a very large payment, particularly when taking on a new mortgage. Due to this the adviser 
looked at alternatives to protect the mortgage and HTB loan and provided some further 
figures for different options. The adviser offered to provide further quotes and asked that 
Ms M come back to her preferences. 
Ms M responded by asking the broker to provide a quote and full breakdown of the cover for 
a policy that provided life insurance and income protection. She also asked if she would 
need to arrange both life cover and buildings and contents insurance. The adviser provided 
the quote the same day and confirmed that Ms M would need buildings and contents 
insurance on top of this. She offered to provide a quote for that cover if Ms M wanted one.
Toward the end of April 2018 Openwork confirmed that the new mortgage application had 
been accepted and the offer was valid until October 2018. It said that a copy of the offer 
would have been posted directly to Ms M, but if she didnt receive it, Openwork would email 
her a copy. 
In the middle of May 2018 Openwork contacted Ms M again about protection products for 
the mortgage. It asked her if shed decided what she wanted to do. Ms M didnt respond, and 
Openwork chased her for a response around three weeks later. It offered her a face-to-face 
meeting if she would prefer that. It doesnt appear that Ms M contacted Openwork about 
protection provision again until early October 2018.  She said she had been given quotes in 
April 2018, but they would be out of date by that time. She said she would like to speak to 
the adviser to talk through the options to ensure she got what she needed. A conversation 
happened later that day and Ms M reverted to her employer to ask about her sickness 
benefits. She provided the adviser with these details on 4 October 2018.
A few days later the adviser provided Ms M with a new quote for a policy providing mainly 
life cover, but didnt include income protection, as the adviser confirmed Ms M didnt need it 
given her employers sick benefits.  A quote for buildings and contents insurance was also 
provided. The advisers file notes from the time detailed that shed recommended life and critical illness 
cover to protect the mortgage and HTB loan, however, the cost of the policy was outside 
Ms Ms budget of £100 for all insurances, including buildings and contents. As such, the 
adviser had recommended life cover only which would allow the property to be left to a 
family member. The same day (two days before completion of the property purchase), the 
adviser chased Ms M for a decision about the insurance policies that had been 
recommended. This was so that the policies could be put in place in time for completion. 
Ms M responded immediately and confirmed the policies she wanted. 
The policies were applied for that day, but because of a medical condition, the life cover 
policy premium increased by around £30. Ms M was asked if she still wanted to go ahead 
with the policy at this cost and she confirmed she did. 
Openwork sent Ms M a letter to her new address enclosing a summary of the advice and 
recommendations following recent discussions. The letter said the adviser had identified two 
areas of importance in protecting Ms Ms lifestyle. These were paying off the mortgage in the 
event of death and in the event of a serious illness. It was detailed that shed recommended 
both, but after providing illustrations showing how much the cover would cost, Ms M had 
decided not to proceed with the recommendation, and to move forward with only life cover.  
Details of the policy that had been taken were then provided.
Ms M complained about the advice she received in 2020.  Openwork responded to Ms Ms 
complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that protection for critical/serious illness was 
discussed with Ms M and initially a policy that provided both life and critical illness cover was 
recommended.  However, due to Ms Ms budget for provision of protection policies, critical 
illness cover wasnt affordable. 
Having received Openworks response, Ms M asked whether the advisers had provided 
copies of their emails with the attached quotes. This was because she said she didnt 
receive any quotes from either of the brokers. She provided the advisers email of 
10 October 2018, which told her that the application had resulted in an increase in premium; 
Ms M said this was the sum total of advice she received. She said she was never asked 
about a budget and she didnt have one  she was on a good income and protection was a 
priority for her as she was on her own. Ms M said it wasnt it explained what life insurance, 
income protection and critical illness cover was and did. 
Openwork didnt change its decision to reject Ms Ms complaint. She asked this service to 
review her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into the merits of the complaint, but she didnt recommend 
that it be upheld. She said she couldnt be certain what had happened and what was 
discussed, but the reports show there were discussions about protecting Ms Ms mortgage. It 
was acknowledged that Ms M said she didnt have a budget for protection at the time, but 
the investigator pointed out that one was recorded at the time of the advice and that couldnt 
be ignored. The investigator was satisfied that critical illness cover was discussed and was a 
good idea for Ms M. Had she wanted that cover and not received it; she could have 
questioned that it wasnt included in the policy that was set up.
Ms M didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked that the case be passed to an 
ombudsman. She said that a large proportion of what Openwork was saying was not true. 
She said that there was no fact finding done or discussion about her attitude toward risk 
before the correspondence of 30 March 2018 was created. Ms M reiterated that she never 
had a conversation about a budget for the provision of protection benefits and she was given 
no explanation of what different covers were available or what they would do for her. Ms M 
questioned the fact that when she provided medical and lifestyle information the premium for the policy increased. She questioned, had a fact find been done, would this information not 
have been known by the adviser before the policy had initially been priced? 
In addition, Ms M said if shed told the adviser she had a budget of £100 why did the adviser 
only quote for a policy costing £62.47? Ms M repeated that it was not true there was a 
budget. Had there been a proper conversation, she would have taken better cover. There 
had been no conversation about critical illness cover or mention of it. She said she would 
have questioned things had she been told she wasnt fully protected  she wished she had 
questioned the advice, but you dont know what you dont know. Ms M said she thought it 
was a case of the adviser being too busy to follow normal procedures. Ms M also said she 
thinks the adviser was lying.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has said that there werent proper discussions about protecting her mortgage. She has 
said this is supported by the advisers comment in an email of 16 April 2018 where it was 
said that we never seem to be able to speak. I considered this and we asked the adviser 
about this comment. She explained that it was a comment about the number of calls that had 
been made by her and Ms M in the immediate past, which hadnt resulted in a conversation. 
It was not a case of no discussions about protection had been had at all. Having examined 
the evidence in this case, I am inclined to accept that explanation, as there is clear evidence 
of discussions having taken place prior to and after that point. 
Having looked at the notes, reports and details of quotes, I am satisfied the adviser made 
Ms M aware of critical illness cover and that it was recommended, as would normally be the 
case for a single person. It appears Ms M decided not to take it because of the cost of it. I 
would comment at this point that it wouldnt be to the business advantage to place a budget 
on its recommendations if one didnt exist, as the more products and the higher the 
premiums, the greater the commission the broker would usually be received. So while Ms M 
has told us she didnt have a budget at the time, the evidence shows that the adviser was 
under the impression from their conversations she did. 
Ms Ms question why, if she had a budget of £100 per month, the adviser recommended a 
policy for only around £62. Whilst it doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint, I will 
comment on this issue. The budget was detailed as being for all protection needs, so in 
addition to the life cover policy that was recommended, it needed to provide for the buildings 
and contents policy as well. Furthermore, when a policy is applied for, the premium is set by 
the life assurance company for the cover required. It would only increase if additional cover 
was added into the policy or the assurer was made aware that there was an increased risk to 
insuring the individual. The latter appears to have been the case for Ms M, as when she 
answered the medical questions contained in the application form, which would normally 
only be asked at that stage, the insurer considered she represented a higher risk and 
increased the premium. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms M, and I have every sympathy with the 
situation she found herself in after she bought her home, but I am satisfied that critical illness 
cover was discussed with her in 2018. Also, that with this knowledge, Ms M opted not to 
include it in the protection policy she chose.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 
19 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman