DRN-2541300
The complaint
Mr R complains that TFS Loans Limited agreed a loan for him which was unaffordable for 
him.
What happened
In December 2015, Mr R applied for a loan of £7,500 with TFS to repay some debts, pay 
council tax and a holiday. TFS agreed the loan which was to be repaid in 60 monthly 
instalments of £279. Mr R has said that at the time he had problems with gambling and the 
loan was unaffordable for him. He complained to TFS saying that if it had carried out 
thorough checks, it would have found the loan was unaffordable and refused to lend to him.
TFS looked into Mr Rs complaint. It said it felt it had carried out sufficient checks in line with 
the regulations. Having done so it felt the loan was affordable for Mr R based on the 
information hed given it and it had collected at the time.
Mr R disagreed and referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
said that after taking account of Mr Rs declared income and expenditure including the 
payment to this loan, showed he had a monthly disposable income of over £130. Our 
investigator felt the checks TFS had carried out were reasonable and proportionate and it 
was not wrong for TFS to lend to Mr R.
TFS accepted what our investigator said, but Mr R didnt. In summary, he said if TFS had 
checked his bank statements, it would have seen he had several payday loans and a 
gambling problem, so would have refused to lend to him. As there was no agreement, Mr Rs 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr R irresponsibly by 
carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key questions I need 
to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint:
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time 
and did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
TFS was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the assessment is for TFS to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr R. In other words, it wasnt about TFS 
assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan 
repayments on Mr R. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by third parties and the potential 
for TFS to pursue the guarantors instead of Mr R, doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
TFS had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R would 
be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that it had to do, but it 
could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of the loan, 
the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did TFS carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
As Ive said above, there is no set list of checks a lender must carry out  what it must do is 
satisfy itself that the borrower is able to repay the loan sustainably. In order to do so for 
Mr R, TFS used information he provided regarding his employment, residential status, 
income and expenditure. It also obtained proof of his income in the form of a salary slip and 
got his permission to search his credit file.
The information Mr R provided TFS showed that after the expenditure he declared was 
deducted from his income, he had a money left over after the loan payments were 
accounted for. So on the face of it, the loan appeared affordable for Mr R. 
Mr Rs credit file showed a default to a communications company from around ten months 
before this loan application. It also showed hed had a debt management plan which had 
finished around four months before the application. During the sales call, the advisor asked 
Mr R about the reasons for those financial difficulties and he explained there had been a 
short period when he was out of work which had made things difficult.
The information TFS had gathered from Mr R showed he was on a stable income and it felt it 
had a reasonable explanation from him for the two items showing on his credit file  one of 
which was resolved. Hed given details of the debts he wished to repay, and it appeared 
from his income and expenditure that he had sufficient money to afford the loan.
On balance, I think the checks TFS carried out were sufficient in this instance to satisfy it 
that Mr R ought to be able to sustainably repay this loan. Ive seen and heard nothing in my 
investigation which has led me to believe TFS ought to have been aware that Mr R had a gambling problem or was in current financial difficulty. I think the checks it carried out when 
assessing Mr Rs application were reasonable and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and did TFS 
make a fair lending decision?
Ive already said that I think the checks carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate. While further checks  such as requesting bank statements  may have 
provided a fuller picture and may have led to a different decision, theres no obligation on a 
lender to see bank statements. They can be a useful source of information if a lender wishes 
to see them or it has concerns, but the regulations dont oblige the lender to obtain them.  
Given that I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate in this case, it follows that I 
think TFSs decision to lend was a fair one. 
Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think TFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr R in some other way.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman