DRN-4235186
The complaint
Mr S complaints that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund him for money hes lost to an 
investment which he believes was a scam.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In August 2018, Mr S received information or advice from an investment management 
company to invest money into a bond - with an organisation I will refer to as W. He made two 
transfers (£5,050 and £10,000) from his Lloyds account to M (a regulated e-money 
institution) and then on from there into his investment with W.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. Although he felt this was likely a scam, he 
didnt think the transactions were unusual compared to the historical activity on Mr Ss 
account but, in any event, he didnt think any intervention by the bank would have made a 
difference in this case as W looked to be a genuine company at the time.
Mr S did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted the representations made by all the parties, but I wont be addressing 
every single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the 
points havent been considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in 
reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive 
instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the 
scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his 
account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Lloyds says this is a civil dispute. I note W has gone into liquidation and there is an ongoing 
police investigation into the matter. So the outcome on this is not currently known. But I dont 
need to make a finding on this to reach an overall outcome that I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in this particular case.
The investigator said the transactions werent unusual based on the account activity and I 
dont think thats an unreasonable conclusion to draw in this case. The money was going to 
an existing payee and there had been similar sized transactions in the past  so I dont think 
that would have looked obviously suspicious. 
That said  even if Lloyds had intervened on either payment, I dont think it would have 
made a difference in this case broadly for the reasons the investigator previously outlined  
which I have expanded on below.
Causation is a critical determination factor in every fraud case. I need to be satisfied that 
suitable intervention would have made a difference to Mr S decision making or that Lloyds 
could have reasonably prevented the loss. In doing so I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  so what I consider more likely than not based on the evidence and wider 
circumstances of the case.
If questions had been asked about the nature and purpose of the payment Mr S was 
proposing to make, I think its more likely than not that Mr S would have explained he was 
transferring the money to M - an existing payee on the account. I dont think this would have 
been particularly concerning to Lloyds. But if it had probed further it might have established 
that from there, Mr S was investing in W - itself a UK registered company and administered 
by another genuine UK registered company. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr S might have researched things more  I dont think the investment 
would have been cause for concern at the point of transfer or the events that have now 
transpired with W foreseeable. Mr S was paying an existing payee for an investment with an 
organisation (W) which appeared  through its registration with Companies House - to be 
legitimate. Records held with Companies House indicate W was a genuine limited company 
that was incorporated in September 2015 and was actively trading (with no suggestion of 
liquidation) at the time Mr S sent his money to it. So, the payment didnt look like fraud or a 
scam and it would have needed a considerable amount of investigation to unearth the facts 
about W that have now come to light (and which even now seem inconclusive after a 
considerable amount of time). So, I dont think Lloyds ought reasonably to have cause for 
concern.
Im sorry Mr S has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why he would 
like to be compensated for his losses. But Im only considering whether the bank should be 
held responsible for what happened. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman