DRN-4166848
The complaint
Ms M complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
She says that HSBC didnt do enough to protect her from becoming the victim of a scam and 
would like HSBC to pay her back the money she has lost.
What happened
Ms M was contacted by phone by an individual offering an investment opportunity in 
cryptocurrency. She was persuaded to invest an initial sum of £250 from a different bank 
and it seemed to be making profit, so she made further payments from her HSBC account 
totalling £81,000.
When Ms M realised she had been the victim of a scam, she made a complaint to HSBC. 
HSBC didnt uphold her complaint, so Ms M referred her complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, but Ms M disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to make a decision.
I have previously issued a provisional decision on this complaint where I explained I 
intended to partially uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M accepted my provisional decision, but HSBC did not. It provided further commentary 
that it asked me to consider. While I have considered what it said, it hasnt led me to alter my 
provisional decision, although I will comment on what it said.  
So, I now issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partially upholding Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Was Ms M the victim of a scam?
I dont think it is in doubt here that Ms M was the victim of a scam  she was contacted out of 
the blue by someone offering investment in crypto and was persuaded to download Anydesk 
onto her computer. She was also provided with false identification documents from her 
supposed account managers and when she came to withdraw her supposed profit was told 
that this was not possible unless she paid a security deposit which she did.
Ms M made the following payments as part of the scam.
Date Payee Payment type Amount
11 January 2022 S Bank transfer £25,000
28 January 2022 S Bank transfer £15,000
30 March 2022 N Bank transfer £50
1 April 2022 N Bank transfer £14,950
4 April 2022 N Bank transfer £13,000
5 April 2022 N Bank transfer £13,000
Did Ms M authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Ms M isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Ms M says that she didnt authorise the payments  but I think that she did. I say this 
because she spoke with HSBC on three occasions and confirmed that she wanted to make 
the payments. The initial payments Ms M made were also instigated by her using her own 
online banking to make the payment to the seller of the crypto she bought on the scammers 
instruction. 
I understand Ms M had been tricked into instructing HSBC to make the payments  but while 
Ms M never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact she 
authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of Ms Ms payments
After Ms M made her payments, I wouldnt expect HSBC to do anything further until it was 
notified of the scam.
The payments were all made via bank transfer  so HSBC could have asked the receiving 
business to return the funds  however, I dont think that it would likely have been successful 
here. 
This is because S and N are legitimate crypto exchanges and provided the services that Ms 
M requested  the purchase of crypto and subsequently moving that crypto onto a wallet of 
Ms Ms choosing. What happened after that crypto was successfully moved is therefore a 
separate matter.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that HSBC reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Ms M made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Ms M authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, she is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Ms M has made  and if HSBC should have 
intervened.
The first payment that Ms M made from her HSBC account was for £25,000. This is a 
significant amount of money. While I understand that Ms M has made another payment of 
£50,000 around six months prior to this transaction, this appears to be an account in her own 
name, whereas this payment was going to a seller of crypto. 
HSBC say that the £50,000 payment went to an account in a slightly different name  but 
even if the name is slightly different or if it is to a family member, it was still going to an 
individual, and not a seller of crypto.
HSBC also goes on to say that Ms M made payments of £13,000 and £16,603.05  which 
are similar to some of the payments Ms M made to the scammer. But again, the £13,000 
was to the same account as the £50,000  and the £16,603.05 was to repay a loan account. 
All of these transactions also took place six months before the scam took place  so I dont 
think that they can be used to establish a normal pattern of spending for Ms M.
So I think that this payment was unusual - and shouldve stuck out to HSBC as being 
uncommon considering the way in which Ms M generally used her account, especially given 
that by January 2019, HSBC should already have had a good understanding about how 
scams like the one Ms M fell victim to work.
With this in mind, HSBC should reasonably have contacted Ms M to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing Ms M in financial harm before processing it. But 
it did not do so. Had HSBC done so, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Ms M about 
the payment she was making  including what he was making the payment for and 
surrounding context and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a 
potential fraud or scam. 
Similarly, when Ms M made the second payment for £15,000, HSBC did not intervene in this 
payment either  and I think that it should have.
HSBC has commented that this approach would require its automated payment systems to 
pick up the payment in real time, and that as they were made by Bill Payment not by card that there would not be a merchant code indicating the payment was going to crypto. It also 
says that the payments were spaced out and that not all payments to crypto are fraudulent. 
But as I have explained, it should have intervened from the first payment  so even if the 
payments were spread out, this doesnt make a difference. And while not all payments to 
crypto are fraudulent, it still had a duty to protect Ms M, and these payments were for 
significant amounts of money. 
It is also clear that these types of payments can be picked up in real time as HSBC did 
contact Ms M when she made the payments of £14,950, and the two payments of £13,000.
HSBC has provided copies of these calls, and I do think that HSBC questioned Ms M 
appropriately about the payments she was making  this included asking Ms M if she had 
been contacted by anyone, if she had been coached by anyone, and been told to lie to 
HSBC. It also told her about the types of scams it sees involving crypto. But Ms M was not 
truthful with HSBC. 
Ms M has explained that by this point, she has already invested just over £40,000  and was 
anxious not to lose her money. She had been coached by the scammer  and was now 
being told that she needed to make further investment in order to access her supposed profit 
and original investment.
That said, had HSBC intervened from the initial payment  I do think that its questions and 
warnings would have had a greater impact on Ms M  she had only invested £250 so far, 
and the payment for £25,000 was a very large sum of money. And I think that an intervention 
at this point would have altered the way that Ms M acted at this time. HSBC could have 
given Ms M an explanation about scams involving crypto  and how they commonly work  
for example being asked to download software such as Anydesk, the use of fake trading 
platforms and inability to withdraw funds or only being able to make negligible withdrawals, 
plus being asked to pay more funds to remove money. 
HSBC could also have explained that often there is pressure to pay more, and quickly  and 
that unrealistically quick and large promises of profit also indicate a scam. It could also have 
directed Ms M to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) scam smart webpage, given the 
large amount of money Ms M was about to part with, and I think its likely she would have 
made further checks before doing so  or divulged more information to HSBC that she 
ultimately did when it questioned her later on and had already paid out a large sum of 
money.
HSBC says that more weight should be placed on the fact that Ms M wasnt truthful with it 
when she spoke to them, so its likely that she would have done so had it intervened earlier 
as she was likely determined to make the payments. It also says that she had previously 
invested from elsewhere and thought that she was achieving profits.
But it is not just the effectiveness of the warning  but timing too. As Ive explained above, by 
the time HSBC intervened with the payments, she has been told that she needed to pay 
more money in order to access her original investment, and understandably she was 
anxious not to lose her money having invested so much by this point. The earlier investment 
was also only £250  and Ms M hadnt been told that she needed to pay more to get it back 
yet. So, I dont think that this makes a difference here.
And so, I do feel that HSBC missed an opportunity to uncover the scam and prevent the loss 
from the first payment that Ms M made.
Should Ms M bear some responsibility for the loss?While I do consider that HSBC should have prevented the payments from the outset, I do 
need to consider if Ms M should bear some responsibility for what happened here by way of 
contributory negligence.
As Ive explained above, HSBC did miss an opportunity for intervene, and stop the payments 
from the outset, before Ms M became intrenched in the scam  and so the later payments 
would never have been made. However, when it did intervene, Ms M did not co-operate. 
So even though I think that payments four onwards should never have happened, I do think 
that Ms M should bear some responsibility, as she misled HSBC about the nature of the 
payments. And so, I think that it would be fair that responsibility for these payments should 
be split between HSBC and Ms M on a 50% basis.
I understand that HSBC feels that Ms M should at least bear 50% of all the payments that 
were made. It doesnt feel that she was as careful as she should have been when dealing 
with the scammers. It considers she took risks with her money, and that she jumped from 
paying £250 to £25,000. It also says Ms M provided Trustpilot reviews to it of the company 
which are negative  and that some negative reviews were there before Ms M made the 
transactions. 
However, there were also some positive reviews at the time, and I cant be certain when 
Ms M came across the reviews  before or after she was scammed. And Ms M wasnt an 
expert here  and the information she was given by the scammer appears like it would have 
been convincing to someone without experience. The scammers provided her with 
brochures, authentic looking identity documents and also a contract to sign, along with 
requiring her to supply her own identification documents. Again, HSBC was the expert in 
these matters, not Ms M. And I consider the above proportion of blame to be fair in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Ms M 100% of the first three payments. I calculate this to be £40,050.
HSBC should also pay Ms M 50% of the next three payments. I calculate this to be £20,475.
HSBC should also pay Ms M 8% simple interest (minus any lawfully deductible tax) from the 
date the payments were made until the date it makes payment to Ms M.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman