DRN-3824690
The complaint
Mr G complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard registered a default 
incorrectly in relation to his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr G had a credit card account with Barclays. In September 2021, Barclays registered a 
default. 
Mr G was unhappy because he said hed made multiple attempts to make payments but he 
couldnt do so because the service he received when calling Barclays was so poor. He was 
unhappy that the default had been applied and that interest had continued to be charged 
during this period as well. 
In response to Mr Gs complaints, Barclays said they would refund interest applied between 
June and August 2021 on the account and offered Mr G £50 in recognition of the poor 
service he received on the phone. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. He said he was unhappy about the default 
registered in September 2021. He also told us about a default that had been registered in 
2020 by Barclays on the same credit card account, which they later agreed to remove. 
An Investigator considered Mr Gs complaint. He didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong because Mr G had failed to make a number of payments before registering the 
default. 
Mr G didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said he wanted us to look into what had 
happened previously where Barclays had incorrectly registered a default and agreed to 
remove it. 
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says the default occurred because Barclays prevented him from making payments. 
Mr G last made a payment to his credit card account on 31 March 2021. When Mr G missed 
his next payment, Barclays began contacting him to find out why  they wrote to him on 12 
May 2021. Which is what Id expect. 
On 18 May 2021, I can see Mr G spoke to Barclays. He explained hed recently started a 
new job and so couldnt pay. Barclays notes say they applied a hold to the account at this 
time. 
Barclays wrote to Mr G twice in June 2021. And Mr G spoke to Barclays by telephone on 9 
June 2021. Ive listened to this call. This call was interrupted a couple of times by a poor 
connection. But Mr G told the adviser that he had recently started a new job and that he 
would pay what was needed to bring the account up to date by the end of the month.  But, 
no payment was received in June. 
On 1 July 2021, Mr G spoke to Barclays again on the phone. And Ive listened to this call.  
During this conversation Mr G told the adviser he had been experiencing financial difficulty 
and he didnt think it was fair that interest was being applied to his account. He also said he 
would try to make some sort of payment by 20 July. No payments were made by this date 
either. 
Barclays responded to Mr Gs concerns about the interest. Initially they said interest had 
been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account but later agreed to refund 
interest applied between June and August 2021. I think this is fair considering Mr G had told 
Barclays he was in financial difficulty during this period. 
On 5 August 2021, Barclays issued a default notice to Mr G. This letter explained that if Mr G 
did not make a payment of about £85 by 5 September 2021, Barclays would register a 
default. 
Mr G spoke to Barclays again on 7 August 2021. Again he told Barclays, he couldnt make a 
payment until later in the month. Barclays notes say they suspended interest at this time and 
they wrote to Mr G to confirm theyd done so. But, again no payment was received in 
August. 
Mr G told us he would usually access his statements and make payments online. But says 
between May and September 2021, he was phoning Barclays regularly to find out how he 
needed to pay and what he needed to pay to sort things out. Its not clear why Mr G didnt 
make payments to his account via the app in his usual way. And I think it was clear enough 
from the letters Barclays sent what Mr G needed to do. All the letters asking Mr G to make a 
payment included information on how to make a payment in a variety of ways including by 
phone, via the app, direct debit or debit card, standing order or in a branch. 
While I agree the line was poor on the call in June 2021 and it may have been poor on other 
occasions Mr G called the bank, I dont think this prevented Mr G making a payment. And I 
think the £50 Barclays has already offered is fair and reasonable in recognition of 
inconvenience the interrupted calls caused Mr G. 
Mr G spoke to Barclays again on 8 September. During this call, although the expiry date of 
the default notice had passed, Mr G asked how much he needed to pay to avoid the default 
he was told what hed need to pay and that hed need to do it that day to avoid the default. 
Despite saying earlier in the same call he had the money to clear the balance, Mr G 
responded to this information by saying he again wouldnt be able to make any payment until 
the end of the month. 
Since our Investigators view, Mr G has told us if he previously mentioned he was in financial 
difficulty  he didnt mean to. And that he could have cleared the balance  it was Barclays 
that prevented him from doing so. But having listened to the calls and reviewed the notes, he 
clearly told Barclays he couldnt make a payment until the end of the month on several 
occasions. And then, when the end of the month came, Mr G hadnt made a payment. So, 
on balance, it seems unlikely Mr G was in a position to pay what was required in order to 
avoid the default being registered.
Im aware that Barclays registered a default in relation to the same credit card account in 
September 2020, which they agreed to remove in November 2020. Weve previously 
explained to Mr G, we cant consider the first default as that matter was referred to us 
outside of the timescales allowed under our rules. But I have taken it into account in so far as it is the background to the events of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the fact 
Barclays agreed to remove the first default means theyve incorrectly registered the second 
default. And as Ive explained above, Im satisfied the default has been applied correctly in 
2021. 
As Im satisfied the default has been applied correctly, Im not going to require Barclays to 
remove it. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has already made an offer of £50 and to 
refund three months interest to settle the complaint and I think this is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
So my decision is Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay Mr G £50 and 
refund interest applied between June and August 2021 on his credit card account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman