DRN-4247685
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service she received from Rock Insurance Services Limited. 
What happened
Mrs H took out travel insurance when she booked a holiday. Rock Insurance Services 
Limited arranged the policy on the insurers behalf. She had a holiday booked for herself and 
her two children. On the day they were due to leave, about an hour before they planned to 
leave, Mrs Hs daughter had an accident which resulted in her going to hospital.
Mrs H says she tried to contact the holiday company and Rock to discuss the situation, 
including cancellation. Unable to get through, after a number of attempts, they continued 
with the holiday. Unfortunately, the injuries Mrs Hs daughter sustained meant the holiday 
wasnt such an enjoyable experience as Mrs Hs daughter was unable to join in all the 
activities on offer and didnt feel well enough at times to leave the room. 
Mrs H complained to Rock. They acknowledged that Mrs H hadnt been able to get through 
and that she ought to have been directed to the claims team when she contacted Rock for 
help at a later date. Rock also highlighted that the policy documents were clear about who to 
contact in the event of a claim or a change in health. They offered Mrs H £100 compensation 
for the service issues she experienced. Unhappy, Mrs H made a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. She was also unhappy because it took Rock so long to respond to her 
concerns about the overall service she received. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She 
explained that she thought that even if Mrs H had been able to contact Rock, shed have 
been directed to contact the underwriters claims team. She was also satisfied this 
information was clear from the policy terms and conditions. So, she thought the £100 offered 
by Rock fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs H didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rock arranged the policy on behalf of the insurer. So, Rock is not responsible for 
underwriting the policy or for claims decisions. But Rock should still provide Mrs H with good 
customer service. 
I think the £100 compensation Rock has offered Mrs H is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. I say that because: 
I accept Mrs H couldnt get through to Rock for guidance and help. She tried but 
couldnt speak to anyone. I accept that fell below the level of customer service she 
could reasonably expect. I agree it would have caused her some distress and 
inconvenience that she couldnt get in touch for help when she was unsure whether 
to go on holiday or not.  
Even if I think there was a failing by Rock, I still need to consider the impact on Mrs 
H, including whether shes lost out as a result of whats gone wrong. 
Mrs H was provided with information about her policy when she bought it. That 
included details of who to contact in the event of a claim or a change of health. Thats 
the insurer of the policy, which is a different business to Rock. So that was the 
business she needed to contact in such circumstances. 
Even if Mrs H had been able to get through to Rock, they wouldnt have been able to 
advise her to travel or not. I dont think Rock have been able to guide her, for 
example, about her daughters fitness to fly or what would happen if she needed to 
cut her holiday short.
I think it is most likely that had Mrs H been able to contact Rock shed have been told 
that she needed to contact the underwriters claims team in line with policy terms. 
Taking the above into account I cant fairly say that Rock was responsible for Mrs Hs 
decision to travel or her lack of enjoyment on holiday. 
I appreciate that Mrs H spent a lot of money on the holiday which was very different 
to the holiday she had planned. I have also considered that a similar holiday is much 
more expensive this year. But I dont think thats something I can fairly conclude is 
because of Mrs H being unable to contact Rock. I think £100 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused when she couldnt contact Rock and in the delay 
in responding to her concerns.  
If Mrs H is unhappy with the service she received from the insurers emergency 
assistance team, or a claims decision, shell need to make a complaint to the 
underwriter of her policy. 
Putting things right
Rock needs to pay Mrs H £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
when she couldnt contact them for help and guidance.
My final decision
Rock Insurance Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Rock Insurance Services Limited should pay Mrs H £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman