DRN-3668605
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for storm 
damage caused to their garage roof, under their home buildings insurance policy. 
For ease of reading I will refer to Mr C, as the lead complainant, in my decision.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr C says storm force winds lifted a number of his garage roof panels, 
causing damage. He contacted UKI to make a claim and it arranged for an inspection, which 
took place two weeks later. 
Mr C says UKI appointed an assessor to carry out the inspection, who spent less than three 
minutes looking at the damaged roof. In his report the assessor refers to the roof containing 
asbestos and that it was very aged. Mr C says that based on this report UKI declined the 
claim saying the damage was the result of wear and tear, which was excluded by its policy. 
Mr C questions whether the assessor was qualified to determine the cause of the damage. 
He has since had the roof repaired and his contractor confirms there is no asbestos. Mr C 
recalls the assessor telling him, during his visit, that the damage was caused by the storm 
and his claim would be accepted. He raised his concerns in a complaint to UKI. It maintained 
its decline decision but offered £50 compensation for the poor service regarding the time it 
took to contact Mr C and arrange an inspection. And for the mis-leading comments its 
assessor made about the claim being accepted. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair and so he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says the assessors report and photos support 
the description of a roof that was in a poor condition prior to the storm. He thought it was 
reasonable for UKI to rely on the policy exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear. 
Mr C disagreed. He isnt satisfied that UKIs assessor is qualified to determine that his claim 
shouldnt be covered. Because he didnt agree he asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Let me explain.
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline the claim.   
Mr Cs policy provides cover in the event of damage caused during a storm. I cant see from 
the policy terms that storm conditions are defined. However, UKI doesnt dispute that there 
were storm conditions at the time Mr Cs loss occurred. So, I neednt consider this point 
further and can move on to the second question. 
Mr C reported damage having been caused by high winds lifting several roof panels from his 
garage. This is consistent with the type of damage that can reasonably be expected to be 
caused by a storm. So, the answer to question two is also yes.
Finally, I need to be satisfied that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
UKI says its assessors report concludes that the high winds have only highlighted issues 
with the condition of the roof and werent the sole cause of the damage. It refers to its 
assessors opinion that winds have lifted the rotten barge boards to the affected side of the 
roof, allowing wind to then get below the roof sheets lifting them off. UKI doesnt think this 
damage wouldve occurred had the roof been in a good state of repair. 
UKI says its policy doesnt cover damage caused by wear and tear, or loss or damage 
resulting from a lack of maintenance. This is why it has declined Mr Cs claim. 
I have read the assessors report and looked at the photos he took. These are taken from a 
vantage point looking down onto the garage roof. I have copied the relevant excerpts from 
the report below:
This roof due to its age will most likely contain asbestos in the sheets.
Looking at the roof and its condition, this is very aged with mould growth and rotten 
barge/fascia boards.
Looking at the condition of the barge/fascia's (rotten) and the roofs age condition we feel 
that this is just suffering from wear and tear and lack of maintenance and the recent storms 
have only highlighted these issues.  
It is most likely that the winds have lifted the rotten barge boards to the affected side 
allowing winds to then get below the roof sheets and lifting them off/damaging.
I have examined the photos taken by the assessor in detail. These show the timber boarding 
around the edge of the garage roof is in a deteriorated condition. I think the photos 
reasonably support the assessors view that the roof was aged, and the boards are rotten. 
Ive read the email Mr C provided from the contractor that carried out the repairs. It says:
The roof was severely damaged in the recent storm, evidenced by the visible damage 
unique to wind shear forces, and as such we were unable to affect a reasonable repair and 
had no option but to replace the roof, also we generally can't repair this type of roof due to 
the difficulty in attaching new panels to old without risking further damage to them.
The email from Mr Cs contractor also says that asbestos and cement fibre panels are visually almost identical.
I accept that Mr C holds strong views that his policy should cover the damage caused to his 
garage roof. But his policy doesnt provide cover where the cause of the damage is as a 
result of wear and tear. This is clearly stated on page seven under the heading This policy 
doesnt cover, which says:
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
 wear and tear
 maintenance and routine decoration
 loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance and/or routine decoration.
Ive thought about Mr Cs comments regarding the assessors qualifications. We asked UKI 
for some further information on this point. It says there is no specific qualification to assess 
non-structural damage to a property and align this to whether the policy wording provides 
cover. UKI says the surveyor who assessed Mr Cs garage has extensive experience in 
roofing with 20 years working in this area. It says this includes all types of roof construction 
and the various elements of degradation and issues that can be seen. UKI says the surveyor 
also has eight years experience with the company it appointed to assess his claim.     
Having considered this, I think the detailed comments contained within the report and the 
photos taken from above the roof show that the inspection and assessment were carried out 
professionally. I think its reasonably been shown that the roof was of some age and not in a 
good condition. I find the report persuasive that it was the poor condition of the roof that 
allowed the strong winds to cause the damage Mr C reported. 
I acknowledge Mr Cs comments that the roof was found not to contain asbestos. UKIs 
assessor thought it likely that it would, because of its age. Although the assessors view on 
the presence of asbestos is indicated to be inaccurate - I dont think its been shown that this 
was an unreasonable assumption. As discussed, Mr Cs contractor says asbestos sheets 
are visually almost identical to those used in the garage roof. However, I dont think this is of 
particular relevance here. Its the condition of the roof, which is old and in a poor state of 
repair that is considered to be the underlying cause of the damage. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr Cs recollection of what the assessor told him about his claim 
being accepted. His claim was ultimately declined, so clearly this wasnt accurate. The 
assessor had identified the garage roof was in a poor condition and was aware the claim 
would likely be declined. What the assessor told Mr C was misleading and caused some 
frustration. That said UKI has apologised for this, and for the time it took to inspect the 
damage and provide a copy of its report. I think its apology along with £50 compensation is 
fair to acknowledge these points.
Having considered all of this, I dont think UKI treated Mr C unfairly when relying on its policy 
terms and declining his claim for storm damage. It didnt treat him fairly regarding the 
inspection delay, and the inaccurate information its assessor gave verbally. But I think its 
apology and £50 compensation payment is fair in acknowledging this. So, I cant reasonably 
ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman