DRN-3598639
The complaint
Mr O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) provided him with credit 
he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Nat West approved a £6,000 loan application and provided further credit in the form of a 
£1,500 overdraft limit in December 2021.
Mr O says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Nat West initially disagreed but have now agreed with our investigators findings that both 
the loan and the overdraft were unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided.
There is agreement from Nat West that they should therefore refund any interest and 
charges that have been applied.
But the investigator didnt think it would be fair to tell Nat west to refund the capital and Mr O 
thought she should have. Hes therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here.
I agree with the investigators view that the loan and overdraft were irresponsibly provided. 
Mr O was clearly reliant on credit and the frequent lending he was taking out prior to the 
agreement to approve his loan and overdraft, along with the significant gambling spend that 
would have been visible to Nat West as Mr O banked with them, should have alerted them to 
that. 
In those circumstances we would usually tell the business to refund interest and charges on 
the credit provided but we wouldnt ask them to refund the capital as the consumer would 
have benefitted from spending that. I dont think the situation is any different here. I 
understand Mr Os explanation that other companies rejected his credit applications because 
of his extensive gambling, but Nat West didnt and have therefore lent irresponsibly. So, they 
shouldnt benefit from those transactions and should return any charges and interest they 
have gained. But Mr O has benefitted from the capital and it wouldnt be fair to refund that 
too.
Putting things right
As I dont think Nat West should have approved the loan I dont think its fair for it to charge 
any interest or charges. However, Mr O has had the capital he lent so I think he should pay 
that back. Therefore, with regard to the loan Nat West should:
Deduct the repayments Mr O has made from the amount he was lent.
If this results in Mr O having paid more than he received, any overpayments
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Nat West should attempt to arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr O.
Remove any negative information they may have recorded on Mr Os credit file 
relating to the loan.
And, with regard to the overdraft Nat West should:
Remove all interest, fees or charges on the overdraft and return them to Mr O 
with 8% simple interest*. The interest should be calculated from the date any
overdraft fees, interest or charges would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman