DRN-3716533
The complaint
Mr C complains British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) gave a poor service and failed to 
make a reasonable offer for repairs after damage was caused by its engineers who attended 
to repair a leak on his toilet.
There are several parties and representatives of British Gas involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to British Gas.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr C had a leak on a toilet in his house so he made a claim on his home 
emergency policy that he held with British Gas. 
British Gass plumber attended to repair the leak. A part was replaced and fitted. The part 
failed causing a leak through a ceiling. British Gass plumber attended again and made the 
required repairs. British Gas said it would organise to repair the damage caused to the 
decoration in the room below the leak.
British Gas organised a date in December 2021 for its decorator to attend. Mr C also 
obtained a quote from a third party for the work required of £502.27. This was rejected as 
British Gas said it was too high.
As Mr C remained unhappy, British Gas offered two options. Either British Gass contractor 
would carry out the remedial decoration repairs in December 2021 or it would provide a 
monetary payment of £350. Mr C declined both options.
British Gas accepted that the way it had handled the case, and the delays encountered, had 
fallen below the level it aimed to achieve. In recognition of this, it awarded £200 for the 
inconvenience caused by the damage that occurred following one of its visits. 
Mr C feels that the offer of £350 is not enough for the repairs. He said as British Gas never 
came out to his house to look at the work required, how can it be certain it has calculated the 
cost of the required redecoration works accurately. 
As Mr C was not happy with British Gas, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said Mr C was 
given fair and reasonable options for the remedial works to be carried out. They said the 
£350 settlement for the repairs and the £200 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
As Mr C is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the policy is a home emergency policy and this policy is designed to be used in 
an emergency situation. In this case the emergency was the leaking toilet. The issue in this 
case is putting right the damage caused by British Gas after the repair failed.
British Gas accepted it caused damage and I would therefore expect it to put things right and 
put Mr Cs house back into the position it'd been in before the damage occurred.
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and it says;
access and making good - getting access to your appliance or system, and then repairing 
any damage we may cause in doing so, by replacing items such as cabinets or cupboards 
that weve removed and by filling in holes we have made and leaving a level surface.
In this case the damage caused by British Gas was to the decoration of the room below the 
leak. It was agreed that the room required repainting. 
I have seen that in this case British Gas initially offered to complete the decoration repairs 
with its own contractor. Mr C said he wanted to check up on the credentials of British Gass 
contractor which British Gas did supply to him. British Gas also gave Mr C the option to 
obtain his own quotes for the repairs. Mr C did this and  submitted a quote of £502.27 to 
British Gas. 
British Gas rejected this amount as it felt the costs were high. It made an offer of £350, 
which is what it said it would be able to complete the same repairs for. It explained £350 was 
calculated using the work described on the third-party quote Mr C provided them. And said 
its plumber had taken pictures when he attended. It felt the £350 cash settlement offered 
was more than budget for a painter to conduct the work. 
Although Mr C contests that British Gas did not come out to look at the work required, I dont 
think the approach taken by British Gas is unreasonable or uncommon in the industry. A 
physical visit wouldn't necessarily be required where a quote has been obtained.  
I understand that this will have been a stressful time for Mr C, and I have seen he had to 
chase British Gas for updates. However I think the £200 compensation paid for the 
inconvenience caused by the delays and the damage that occurred following its visit to 
repair the leak is fair and reasonable in this case.
Because British Gas also gave Mr C the option to get the remedial works carried out by the 
British Gas approved decorator, I think the £350 cash settlement was fair. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint and do not require British Gas to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman