DRN-1657618
 
 
 The complaint
This is a complaint that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr S. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. NatWest sold Mr S the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale took place more than 22 years ago and there are, unsurprisingly, no documents 
surviving about the sale of the PPI. I also wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened so many years ago when the PPI started. Ive borne in mind these 
difficulties in the evidence when considering the case and trying to reach a fair decision. 
Ive considered what Mr S and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why:
Mr S has said the PPI was added without his knowledge, and he also wasnt told the 
PPI was optional. However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened 
unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone has said 
another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the 
person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. 
It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially 
when it was such a long time ago. And from what we know from NatWests 
processes at the time, the PPI would have been presented as a choice which the 
customer would have had to actively choose before it was added. So I think its likely 
this happened. And overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was 
added without Mr Ss informed consent. 
I think its unlikely NatWest recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mr Ss individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well NatWest explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information NatWest gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think full information about costs and benefits would have affected 
whether he took the PPI. I say this because, the benefits of the PPI would potentially 
have paid out for longer than Mr S employer sick pay, and it seems he didnt have 
good savings to fall back on at the time. So its unlikely better information would have 
made the PPI seem less useful. And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by 
any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But NatWest will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S 
because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr S about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
If it has not already made the payment:
NatWest has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back to Mr S any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
NatWest should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr S the difference 
between what Mr S owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest should also pay Mr S 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman