DRN-2569100
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O say that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In June 1987, Mr and Mrs O took out a Nationwide mortgage - without taking out any PPI. 
On 1 September 1991, Nationwides records show that Mr and Mrs O had taken out PPI to 
protect the mortgage monthly repayments. The policy covered Mrs O if she couldnt work as 
a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs O disagree. 
Its my understanding that Mr and Mrs O mainly feel the policy was mis-sold because they 
were unaware they had it. They told us they dont feel that taking out a policy wouldve made 
sense. And they said that if PPI had been something they had considered in 1991, it 
wouldve been taken out in both their names or just in Mr Os name as he was the main 
earner. 
Mr and Mrs O have mentioned a number of other concerns and asked to see information 
Nationwide has sent us  and theyve sent me some of their mortgage statements to look at. 
Whilst I've carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs O have said, and looked at all the 
information theyve sent us, theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our adjudicator 
has already said to Mr and Mrs O. 
So Ive concentrated on what happened when PPI was sold to Mrs O and thought carefully 
about whether its fair and reasonable for me to uphold their mis-sale complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs O are sure about everything theyve told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs O to remember exactly what was discussed when they 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. 
And what Mr and Mrs O say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their 
complaint. Where the information is inconsistent or incomplete, as some of it is here, I must 
make my decision based on what I think is likely to have happened taking into account all the 
information thats available, what the parties have told me and also thinking about what we 
know about these types of sales at that time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs O a choice about 
taking out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs O 
werent given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to 
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Os mortgage without their consent. 
I think Mr and Mrs O wouldve understood that having PPI was an optional extra on their 
mortgage account. I say this because the mortgage had already been running for around 
4 years without PPI. So Mr and Mrs O wouldve been aware that it was up to them to apply 
for cover if they now wanted it.
I dont know what prompted Mr and Mrs O to take out this insurance  Nationwide said they 
mightve got one of its mailshot application forms in the post in 1991. So this could be what 
made Mr and Mrs O think about applying for the cover. 
I can see that they had already taken out further borrowing on their mortgage account in 
1989 and 1990, and they didnt choose to take out PPI when they did that. But this isnt 
reason enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their mis-sale complaint because I can 
see why Mr and Mrs O mightve decided they wanted to have the security that PPI offered 
them. I say this because Mr and Mrs Os home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage 
payments werent kept up to date and PPI provided dependable cover which I think couldve 
been useful to Mr and Mrs O. 
So, I can understand why Mr and Mrs O mightve wanted to take out PPI in 1991  even if 
they didn't choose to take it out sooner 
Mrs O wouldve had to complete a separate application form to take out this insurance. I can 
completely understand if thats not something Mr and Mrs O can now recall doing  but after 
so long, thats unsurprising. And I wouldnt reasonably expect Nationwide still to have a copy 
of anything Mrs O signed to take out PPI after so long. So the fact that Nationwide cant 
show me how the PPI was sold isnt enough for me to be able to uphold the complaint.  
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs O decided they wanted to protect their home by 
having the benefits the policy offered and it was added on to the mortgage account when 
they applied to take it out. 
Nationwide says it didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs O. But Nationwide still had to make 
sure it told Mr and Mrs O enough about the policy for them to be able to decide if they 
wanted to buy it. 
I think, broadly speaking, its likely that Nationwide did give Mrs O enough clear information 
for her to be able to decide if PPI was right for her - and where it mightnt have done, better 
information wouldnt have made a difference to Mrs Os decision to take out PPI. 
Ill explain my reasons for saying this.The policy couldve paid out a benefit for up to 24 months in the event of a successful 
accident or sickness claim. It appears that was much longer than Mrs O wouldve been able 
to rely on getting sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work  and it wouldve been paid 
in addition to any work benefits Mrs O mightve got, providing a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially if Mrs O mightve had extra costs as a result of being off work as a result of 
illness or disability. 
The policy couldve also paid out for up to 24 months at a time if Mrs O lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
The policy wouldve covered the total mortgage monthly repayments that Mr and Mrs O were 
making at the time. 
It doesnt look like Mrs O had any other ways to pay the contribution she made to the 
mortgage each month if she wasnt able to work. So I think the policy offered Mr and Mrs O 
useful benefits given Mrs Os particular circumstances. 
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mrs O about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it looks to me like Mrs O was eligible for the PPI. And it appears that she 
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover available under the policy shed taken 
out. So I dont think that having better information about the policy exclusions and limitations 
that didnt affect her is likely to have put Mrs O off taking it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs O at the outset. But they chose to 
add the cover on to their mortgage  and records show that they selected £250 additional 
benefit which they couldve used to help pay household bills. So it looks like they were happy 
to pay for the cover they wanted to have. I've seen nothing to suggest that paying for the 
policy was a problem for Mr and Mrs O  so thats not a reason for me to uphold the 
complaint. And this was a policy they paid for monthly so Mrs O was able to cancel it at any 
time if she no longer wanted to pay for it. And I can see from information sent to me by 
Nationwide that she cancelled the policy in 1994. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs O wouldve made a different decision about 
whether to take out PPI if clearer information had been provided. On balance, given their 
circumstances and the benefits the policy offered them, I think theyd still have taken it out. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr O said in response to the adjudicators view. Its 
fair to say that if Mr O was the main earner at the time, it couldve been better if hed been 
the person mainly protected by the policy. But this doesnt make any difference to my 
decision. Thats because it wouldve only made a difference if Mr and Mrs O had lost out in 
money terms as a result of the benefit not being properly shared between them. That never 
happened because they wouldve paid the same amount for the PPI regardless of who was 
covered  so I cant say theyre worse off in money terms as a result of cover just being in 
Mrs Os name. And although this might have made a difference if Mr O had ever been in a 
position to make a successful claim on the policy I havent seen or been told anything to 
make me think that ever happened. So this makes no difference to the outcome of 
Mr and Mrs Os mis-sale complaint. 
For all the reasons I've explained, I dont feel Ive seen enough overall to be able to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Os mis-selling complaint. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs O about that. 
Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs O any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. And theres nothing further 
that Nationwide Building Society needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman