DRN-3104259
The complaint
Mr L complains about charges hes been asked to pay following the termination of his 
agreement with Leasing Options Limited.  
What happened
Mr L had a lease agreement which was due to expire on 8 August 2019. In the months 
leading up to this date, Mr L received quotes from Leasing options for a new car. 
Mr L says he proceeded with Leasing options in the understanding that it would match other 
quotes hed obtained, and that it would deliver the new car at the same time as collecting his 
old car.
On 12 August the lorry arrived to collect Mr Ls old car, but the new car wasnt delivered. Mr 
L called Leasing Options and was told that there was a problem with delivery of the new car 
and that he could cancel collection of his old car if he wished.
The new car was delivered on 28 August 2019. Following this, Mr L incurred charges for 
aborted collection, excess mileage and additional rental. He disputed the charges and said 
when he cancelled the collection, he hadnt been advised that this would incur a charge.
In response, Leasing options said the late delivery of the new car was due to circumstances 
beyond its control. In relation to excess mileage and additional rental, Leasing Options said 
these reflected the costs of extending the lease.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I proposed to uphold the complaint. I said I 
thought that Leasing Options had led Mr L to expect that his new car would be delivered on 
12 August 2019, and that although there were circumstances which meant that this wasnt 
possible, I thought that Leasing Options should have contacted Mr L sooner than it did so he 
had chance to consider his options and arrange other transport if necessary. I said I didnt 
think it was fair to charge Mr L for the cancelled collection, because he was given such short 
notice that his new car wasnt being delivered. I said I though Leasing Options could have 
been clearer with Mr L when it set out the option of cancelling the collection, that this would 
incur an aborted collection fee.
In relation to the excess mileage charges and additional hire charges, I said that Mr L should 
pay these, as these are set out in the terms and conditions of the agreement.
I also said that Mr L had been caused additional inconvenience here as both the funder and 
Leasing Options have tried to pass responsibility to the other, which has delayed the timely 
progression of the complaint.
I said that Leasing Options should refund the aborted collection fee and pay compensation 
of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise 
before I reached a final decision.
Leasing Options said it had already refunded Mr Ls processing fee and that the purpose of 
this refund was to cover the aborted collection fee and compensate Mr L for any 
inconvenience. It said that if it had to refund further sums and pay compensation, the total 
amount awarded to Mr L would be disproportionate given that Mr L was kept mobile at all 
times.
Mr L said he didnt think the compensation was enough. He said Leasing Options had 
initially directed his complaint to another company which had delayed resolution of the 
complaint. Mr L said he didnt think he should be liable for the excess mileage, because he 
had been careful to manage his mileage to the date the contract was due to end, and that if 
he had known that his new car would not be delivered on time, he would have conserved the 
mileage. Mr L also said that he had said to Leasing Options that he didnt expect to be 
charged for excess mileage due to its error and they had not challenged this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of what both parties have said. I dont agree with Leasing Options that the 
proposed award is disproportionate. Mr L has suffered a significant degree of distress and 
inconvenience as a result of Leasing Options failings. Hes also incurred an aborted 
collection fee in circumstances where he was left with little choice but to retain his old car. 
Further, theres nothing to suggest that the refund of the processing fee was intended to 
compensate Mr L  I cant see that this was said to Mr L at the time.
Ive noted Mr Ls comments and whilst I dont disagree that he has been caused 
inconvenience, I remain of the view that the compensation Ive awarded is fair. Although Mr 
L would have put more mileage on the old car as a result of driving it for a further two weeks, 
I still think he was aware of the relevant contractual mileage allowance and of his obligation 
to pay excess mileage under the terms of the agreement if he exceeded that allowance. The 
fact that Leasing Options didnt respond specifically to Mr L when he said he didnt expect to 
be charged for excess mileage doesnt make a difference  the liability to pay arises from the 
contract and a failure to challenge what Mr L said doesnt change this, or amount to 
agreement with what Mr L said.
Having taken all the points made into account, my decision remains as set out in my 
provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right Leasing Options Limited must reimburse the aborted collection fee of 
£132 and pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Leasing Options Limited must take the steps 
Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman