DRN-3016994
The complaint
Ms P says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that Morses didnt make 
proper affordability checks. She says that if it had made these checks then it wouldnt have 
lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Ms P between 
December 2015 and September 2016. Some of the information I have been provided about 
the lending is in the table below. Ms P repaid the loans weekly. 
loan date started amount instalments date repaid
1 17/12/2015 £200 33 16/06/2016
2 24/03/2016 £100 33 01/09/2016
3 16/06/2016 £300 33 02/03/2018
4 01/09/2016 £200 33 17/12/2018
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the checks Morses made were 
proportionate, and these showed that the loans were affordable for Ms P. 
Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion; but she didnt raise any new points or say why 
she disagreed. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint and Ive explained why below.
For loan 1 Ms P needed to repay £10 each week. Due to the size of the loans, and the way 
they overlapped, this rose to £15 for loan 2, £20 for loan 3 and £25 a week for loan 4. 
Ive seen a record of the information Ms P provided when she completed her loan 
applications. Ms P said she had a weekly income of between £310 and £370 and she had 
regular weekly outgoings of between about £40 and £60, I understand a third party paid 
some of Ms Ps living costs. So, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to think that the 
loans were affordable for Ms P. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms P mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Ms Ps circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for these loans were 
proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve loans 1 to 4 were reasonable. Im not 
upholding Ms Ps complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman