DRN-3113640
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) changes to its overdraft pricing 
structure caused her financial difficulty and continued charging her excessive amounts for 
her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
 
What happened
 Mrs D complained to HSBC following its change to its overdraft pricing structure. She said 
the extra cost would make her overdraft more difficult to repay and that the excessive 
amounts she has paid in fees have caused her financial difficulty. HSBC didnt uphold the 
complaint. And as Mrs D was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that HSBC 
ought to have realised that Mrs D was experiencing financial difficulty by 17 January 2014 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
HSBC didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mrs Ds 
overdraft from 17 January 2014. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs D was in 
no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mrs D was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained 
a credit balance for an extended period of time. HSBCs own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Mrs Ds overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have realised that 
Mrs D wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Mrs Ds overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mrs D fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right. 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 17 January 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mrs D to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ds credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on 17 January 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman