DRN-2929985
The complaint
Miss J says she only repaid her The One Account with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc by 
selling her property in 2014 due to conversations shed had with the bank. She said she 
couldnt meet the facility reductions that RBS was asking for so she sold the house, 
redeeming the mortgage.
Whilst the mortgage and property were in joint names, weve agreed  due to the 
circumstances  to deal with this complaint in Miss Js sole name. Ill refer to Miss Js 
ex-partner as Mr Z.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Miss J and Mr Z took out this mortgage in 2002. They opted to take it on a repayment basis, 
which means Miss J and Mr Z should have been leaving enough in the account each month 
so that the balance would reduce.
Instead, throughout the life of the account Miss J and Mr Z were frequently up to the facility 
limit, which was £100,000. The annual review in December 2011 showed the outstanding 
balance was £98,777 against the £78,284 it should have been at that point if the loan was on 
track to be repaid in 2027 (which was the contract Miss J and Mr Z had entered into).
Due to the fact Miss J and Mr Z were over £20,000 behind plan at that point, RBS wrote to 
them in 2012 and Miss J made contact with RBS. It was agreed that RBS would reduce the 
facility limit by £1 in June 2012, to £99,999. In June 2013 the limit was further reduced to 
£95,290. In November 2014 Miss J and Mr Z sold the house and repaid the borrowing in full, 
and the account was closed.
Miss J spoke to RBS in May 2012 to say that the reduction wasnt affordable. It was agreed 
that the reduction would be just £1 that year, but thereafter there would be an annual 
reduction. A letter was sent to confirm that, and that the next reduction would be down to 
£95,290 in June 2013. The letter included a revised repayment plan, which explained that 
Miss J and Mr Z needed to repay their account gradually over the next 14 years and 9 
months and that the balance should decrease as they progressed towards their repayment 
date. It also indicated what the decreasing balance should be after years 1, 5 and 10.
Im mindful that RBS had told Miss J and Mr Z about its plan to reduce the facility each time 
a year before it took place and it sent them a reminder letter, so Im satisfied they were given 
adequate time to explore any other options that may have been available to them.
But thats not the end of it. I also need to consider whether RBS treated Miss J fairly, and 
whether she was put under undue pressure by RBS to agree to the reductions each year.
I understand that Miss J ended up borrowing money from friends and family to reduce her 
borrowing as well as paying £4,000 from her credit card. She also put the property on the 
market and says she rushed to sell it because she was worried about repossession.
As our investigator explained, RBS has already offered to cover the monetary impact of the 
credit card transaction (that is, the interest), however we wouldnt expect it to replace the 
capital balance as that sum came off the mortgage balance so led to a lower amount being 
owed when the property was sold. In addition we cant redress any informal arrangements 
Miss J entered into with her friends and family. That seems a fair resolution for that part of 
the complaint.
Miss J says that RBSs actions and handling of the account resulted in her feeling forced to 
sell the property  which she and Mr Z did in November 2014. She said this meant she lost 
her business as it was based at her home.
Miss J has said:
The house would have been marketed to sell at the higher price and we would not have 
been forced to reduce the price simply to sell within the time frame put on us by Virgin 
One. And;
I would have had more time to find a suitable property to continue my business or would 
have looked to start another business to ensure security for myself and my daughter who 
was still dependent on myself before even considering put the house on the market.
I can see that the property was put on the market in October 2013 and a sale didnt complete 
until November 2014 so I dont agree that Miss J and Mr Z were forced to reduce the price 
simply to sell within the time frame given to them by RBS. A year doesnt indicate a rushed 
sale at undervalue, and generally a house will sell for what it is worth in that time frame. 
Theres nothing to indicate a higher offer would have been available but for the actions of 
RBS. It also seems that year gave Miss J time to find a suitable property to continue her 
business, or start a new business.
Miss J has said that she didnt want to sell the house, and she believed she could have lived 
there until the end of the term, selling the property at that point to repay the debt. But we 
simply cant know that. I cant disclose the conversations Mr Z had with RBS as he isnt party 
to this complaint and so we dont have his authority to disclose that information, but I think it 
is fair to say that Mr Z may not have been in agreement with that.
I can see that Miss J discussed selling the property with RBS in August 2004 as she wanted 
a property in her sole name, but unfortunately her income was too low to obtain the 
mortgage she needed. And Miss J herself told RBS in May 2012 that she expected to hear 
from Mr Z about the property when their child turned 18, which would be in late 2013.
All things considered, Im not persuaded that it is more likely than not that Miss J would have 
remained in the property for the remainder of the term but for RBS reducing the facility limit. 
To explain; when considering any complaint like this, as Miss J is the one bringing the 
complaint against RBS, to uphold the complaint Miss Js version needs to be more likely 
than RBSs version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant say Miss Js 
version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to uphold her complaint.
It therefore follows that I dont think RBS is responsible for any loss in sales price achieved 
due to the timing of the sale, any sale costs or any other consequential matters (such as rent 
until Miss J found a new property to buy or the loss of Miss Js business).
Our investigator felt RBS should pay £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused due 
to RBS still taking action whilst the property was on the market. Having considered 
everything I agree with her. It must have been an incredibly difficult time for Miss J as she 
needed to sell her property, and against that backdrop RBS seemed to be pushing ahead 
with action. However I must also keep in mind that the property taking a year to sell doesnt 
indicate it could have sold for more, and my earlier findings about the fact I wasnt 
persuaded  on balance  that it was likely Miss J could have remained in the property long 
term, but for RBS reducing the facility limit. All things considered Im satisfied £1000 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to:
Pay Miss J £596.99 to cover the difference in interest she incurred between the date 
the payment was made and the date the mortgage was redeemed on the £4,000 she 
put on her credit card against the debt on the mortgage.
RBS should add simple annual interest of 8%* to that sum, running from 
19 November 2014 to the date of settlement;
Pay Miss J £1,000 compensation.
If RBS considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award it 
may do so but it should give Miss J the necessary paperwork, if she asks for it, so she can 
reclaim any tax from HMRC if shes entitled to do so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman