DRN-4015368
The complaint
Ms B has complained about the service she received from Vitality Health Limited. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties and the facts are not in dispute so 
I wont repeat them in full here. In summary Ms B complained about the problems she had 
encountered with her points app. She also felt that Vitality didnt provide information as to 
how it would use her data.
Vitality offered £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience the matter had 
caused Ms B. It also provided Ms B with maximum points until the policy was cancelled. Our 
investigator felt that the resolution offered by Vitality was fair.
Ms B appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the 
complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able 
to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Ms B will be disappointed by my decision but I find that Vitality made a fair 
and reasonable offer to Ms B for these reasons:
There was an issue affecting Ms Bs fitness tracking app which meant her daily 
points werent being added. It took Vitality some time to investigate the matter. But 
whilst attempting to resolve the issue Vitality awarded her the maximum number of 
points available. This meant that she wasnt disadvantaged. I understand that Ms B 
felt she was denied future discounts, but as she decided to cancel her policy I find 
that Vitalitys action in respect of adding points whilst Ms B was on cover was fair.
This didnt mean that Ms B couldnt use her private medical insurance policy during 
the period she was on cover, should she have needed to make a claim. This being 
so I dont find that she was entitled to a refund of premiums paid.
Ms B complained that Vitality misused her data. Vitality explained the purpose of data 
collection as set out in its privacy policy. It felt that it had compiled with Data 
Protection Law and explained that if Ms B was unhappy with the outcome if her 
complaint about the use of her data she could complain to the Information 
Commissioners Office. I find that was a reasonable response and note that she was 
referred to the correct agency. 
Vitality conceded that it had taken time to address Ms Bs concerns. It noted too that 
Ms B has tried to make contact on several occasions. It felt it had lost opportunities 
to reiterate how the reward system worked. Vitality offered £100 for the service it 
had provided. I can see that Ms B was sent many holding emails and it took some 
time to address the issue. I fully accept that this would have been inconvenient and 
frustrating for Ms B. I am satisfied that compensation is due and that the offer of 
£100 was fair in all the circumstances. 
For clarity I would add that it is not for this service to tell a financial business how to 
operate or to punish businesses for poor service. Our statutory function is dispute 
resolution. So we will look at the impact the businesses regulated acts or omissions 
have had on the consumer. Regulation of financial businesses though, is the 
function of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
My final decision
Vitality Health Limited has already made an offer to pay Ms B £100 and I find the offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that Vitality Health Limited should pay Ms B £100 offered, if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman