DRN-3691504
The complaint
Mr N complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc had unfairly cancelled his van insurance policy.
What happened
AXA wanted to change their policy cover and premium on annual renewal. Mr N was 
unhappy about this, and said theyd cancelled his policy and put an adverse reference on his 
insurance record that affected his credit. 
AXA said they were entitled to change their insurance criteria, they hadnt cancelled his 
policy but it had lapsed as they thought he didnt want to continue with it, and theyd acted in 
line with their policy terms and conditions. They said that they hadnt added anything to his 
insurance record.
Mr N complained to this Service. The investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought 
AXA hadnt acted unfairly. Mr N didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns insurance with AXA included social, domestic, pleasure and commuting (SDP) use 
only. AXAs underwriters decided that they would no longer offer that package of cover and it 
had to include business use too. This prompted AXA to make a premium increase at 
renewal. Mr N said he didnt use the van for business and so didnt want business use cover. 
But AXA said they could no longer offer him insurance without that. 
Ive listened to the recordings of a number of calls Mr N made to AXA about the policy. They 
show that Mr N was very angry about AXAs policy change and premium increase , and he 
showed that anger to AXAs staff in those calls. The result was that AXA decided that their 
staff should no longer have phone contact with Mr N due to his bad language and the tone of 
the conversations. I think that was reasonable of them. 
It seems that Mr Ns anger was at first partly prompted by him feeling that AXA thought he 
had already been using his van for business and had lied to them about that. But AXA didnt 
think that. It was merely that their policy cover was changing due to their underwriters having 
changed their criteria. So from then on AXAs policy had to include business use too and that 
prompted the change in terms and premium. Before AXA stopped phone contact with Mr N   
due to his behaviour, they did explain that to him. 
 
Insurers are allowed to change the terms on which they offer cover every year. Thats a 
commercial decision for them and is not generally something in which we would intervene. 
Its then up to a consumer if they want to continue or to seek alternative insurance. 
Mr N said that even though he wasnt happy with AXAs changes, he did want to continue 
with the policy and had expected it to auto renew as it had before. He said that he didnt ask 
AXA to cancel the policy and AXA couldnt prove that he had, so they should reinstate the 
policy. AXA say that the policy lapsed because Mr N told them on the phone that he wasnt 
happy with the policy cover change and the premium increase. AXA understood from what 
he said that he didnt want to continue with the policy. 
Mr N said AXA were wrong about that, and he never actually said he wanted to cancel the 
policy or that he would let it lapse. As I said above, Ive listened to the recordings of the calls. 
And given the overall content, nature and tone of what Mr N said to AXAs staff in those 
calls, Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for AXA to have concluded then that he didnt 
want to renew the policy. 
But in any event AXA did then contact Mr N by email, to say that they were sorry he had 
chosen not to renew and explained what he should do if he still wanted to continue with the 
policy. This involved logging into his account with AXA. I think that explanation is clear. 
Mr N acknowledged he received that and other emails from AXA about the policy. He 
emailed AXA saying that he hadnt said he was leaving and complained that they were  
harassing him. But it would seem that Mr N did not do what they had suggested to keep the 
policy, so it then lapsed. I dont think that AXA were unreasonable here either. Theyd given 
Mr N opportunities to continue with the policy if he wanted and had clearly explained how he 
could do that, but he didnt. 
Mr N also said that when he tried to get alternative insurance, he was told that AXA had put 
a marker on his insurance record which affected his credit record. But AXA denied that, and 
an insurer wouldnt normally create any insurance marker after a policy lapse. I havent seen 
anything persuasive to show that AXA did anything wrong there. 
I do see that Mr N has found the situation frustrating, but in the overall circumstances I dont 
think that AXA acted unreasonably, and I dont require them to do anything else.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
