DRN-3458588
The complaint
Mr C has complained Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) unfairly registered a fraud prevention 
marker against him. 
What happened
Mr C acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with BMF in June 2018. The car cost 
around £18,000 and Mr C paid a deposit of £300. The agreement was to be paid back with 
monthly payments of around £300 over around seven years. 
Shortly after acquiring the car, Mr C highlighted issues with it and raised a complaint. Other 
than the deposit, Mr C didnt make any payments towards the agreement. BMF responded to 
the complaint about the quality of the goods. After this, BMFs notes indicate dealers were 
contacting it asking about its interest in the car. 
It looks like Mr C told BMF hed arrange to make payment, but this never happened. BMF 
took steps to try to recover the car but was initially unable to. BMF says it obtained a 
document on 16 October 2018, from a dealer asking to check if it was genuine. It was a HPI 
clearance certificate on BMF headed paper for the car Mr C had acquired. It said BMF held 
no further interest in the car. BMF said it had not issued it and that it had been falsified. 
From BMFs point of view, it looks like it thought Mr C was evading payment, falsifying 
documents and essentially attempting to steal the car. So, it loaded a marker on the National 
Fraud Database. 
BMF reported the car stolen and managed to recover it from Mr C. The vehicle was 
subsequently sold in January 2019 and it looks like there was around £13,000 received from 
the proceeds of sale. 
Mr C complained to BMF the fraud marker had been incorrectly applied. He also complained 
to the organisation that operates the National Fraud Database. BMF thought it had loaded 
the marker fairly based on the evidence it had. And the organisation that operates the 
database said BMF had adhered to the correct procedure when loading the marker. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things but 
ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. He said he didnt think the marker should have been 
recorded for theft, as he thought it was possible Mr C wasnt paying the agreement because 
of the issues he highlighted with the car. But he thought applying a marker for false 
representation was fair. He said the falsified certificate was supplied by a dealer during the 
time Mr C had possession of the car. He said the details on the certificate matched the car 
that was in Mr Cs possession. It also matched the agreement number. He thought the only 
person who could or would attempt to sell the car at that point would be Mr C. So as there 
were more than reasonable grounds at that point that a financial crime had been attempted 
in his view, he thought BMF had acted fairly by loading the marker. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he had no knowledge of the falsified certificate. In summary, he 
said the dealership that supplied the letter couldnt say when or where the car was offered or 
confirmed that it had seen the car. He also said the dealership couldnt provide any dates, 
times or descriptions of who was attempting to sell it. He reiterated the car wasnt fit for 
purpose and the fact it was repossessed with the help of the police meant it couldnt have 
been stolen. So he didnt think the marker was loaded fairly. 
Our investigator highlighted he wasnt investigating the quality of goods complaint. And he 
reiterated he thought BMF had acted fairly. 
Mr C responded to say he thought BMF were lying. Thered never been an attempt to sell 
the car. And that the falsified certificate could easily have come from BMF itself. Mr C 
questioned what punishment thered be for BMF. He thought it had been disingenuous. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
I asked BMF to provide evidence of the email from the dealership it had referred to, which it 
provided. We explained this to Mr C. But he questioned why no one from the dealership 
would verify it. He said his solicitor could verify the case against him was dropped. And he 
reiterated hed never tried to sell the car, and had he done so, the garage would have seen it 
wasnt roadworthy. He thinks BMF should have been charged by our service.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator has explained, the complaint Im considering here is about whether 
BMF loaded the marker to the National Fraud Database fairly. Im not considering the 
complaint about the quality of the goods. If Mr C wants to take that up separately, he can do. 
But, like our investigator has pointed out, given it wasnt referred to our service within six 
months of BMFs final response, it may not be something we can help with. I also should 
point out its not my role to charge our punish businesses. My role is to consider Mr Cs 
complaint and, if I think BMF has done something wrong, I can decide what it needs to do to 
put things right. 
BMF filed a marker because it says Mr C falsified a document with the intention of unlawfully 
selling an asset that was subject to a finance agreement. BMF is the supplier of the goods 
under the hire purchase agreement. And so is the owner of those goods. In order for BMF to 
load such a marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr C is guilty of 
fraud or financial crime, but it has to show theres more than a mere suspicion.
The relevant guidance says to load a marker: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and] 
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So, in this case I think what that means is that BMF has to show that Mr C was deliberately 
attempting to sell the car unlawfully. BMF was required to carry out sufficient checks and 
keep a record of those checks. And it should have given Mr C the opportunity to explain 
what happened. 
Mr Cs explanation is that he simply wasnt trying to sell the car, and that he didnt create the 
falsified certificate. He also highlighted theres no evidence from the dealer BMF said 
contacted it. BMFs position, however, is that it already had concerns Mr C had not paid anything towards 
the agreement since the deposit. And its contact notes indicate it started to receive enquiries 
from third party dealers suggesting Mr C was trying to sell the car. So, I think it had 
legitimate concerns. Moreover, it received a falsified certificate saying it had no interest in 
the car. Like we explained to Mr C, weve now received a copy of an email from a someone 
checking to see if the certificate was legitimate, along with a copy of the certificate itself. 
Mr C says he has no knowledge of this. Of course, its a possibility that a dealer, or someone 
else, falsified the document without Mr C knowing anything about it, and indeed Mr C never 
having visited the dealer to try to sell the car. But, like our investigator pointed out, I think its 
reasonable that BMF thought thats very unlikely. The sender would have had to not only 
have known details about the car. But it also would have had to have known there was 
finance on it with BMF. And it would have had to have known Mr Cs agreement number. 
Theres not really a plausible explanation for how someone would have done that without 
Mr C knowing. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think BMF had reasonable grounds to believe a fraud or financial 
crime had been attempted. And I think the evidence was such that it could confidently report 
the conduct to the police. BMF did in fact report the matter to the police. I accept Mr C may 
not have been convicted of a particular crime or charged in relation to this. But thats not the 
test Im looking at. I dont find I have the grounds to direct BMF to remove the marker. 
For completeness sake, I do agree with our investigator that given Mr C said he wasnt 
paying the agreement because he was in dispute about the quality of the car Im not sure 
loading a marker for theft in that situation would have been fair. But as I dont think BMF was 
unfair to apply a marker for the reasons Ive set out above, this doesnt change my decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman