DRN-3235345
The complaint
Mr H complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his accounts and took too long to return funds held 
in the accounts back to him. He says this caused him financial losses and upset. And wants 
Revolut to pay him compensation. 
What happened
 In August 2020, Revolut carried out a review of Mr Hs accounts. And asked him to provide 
information about the funds in his accounts and how he was using them. Whilst it completed 
the review Revolut blocked Mr Hs accounts, which meant he wasnt able to use the 
accounts or access the money in them.
 
Revolut completed its review on 14 September 2020 and Mr H was able to transfer just 
under 10,000 EUR out of his current account. However, on 16 September 2020, Revolut 
decided to conduct a further review of Mr Hs accounts and asked him for more information 
regarding the source of the funds in his accounts and his income. Whilst it did the further 
review it blocked the accounts again. So, Mr H wasnt able to access the money held in 
them. Revolut removed the block in July 2021  10 months later. And released Mr Hs funds 
back to him. 
Mr H says the blocks to his accounts was inconvenient and meant he lost out on a property 
purchase he was trying to make overseas. He says because he couldnt go through with the 
sale, he had to forfeit an £18,000 deposit that hed paid prior to his accounts being restricted. 
And he wants Revolut to refund this to him. Mr H also says he wasnt able to pay his rent 
and was evicted from his home. And his mental health suffered.
Mr H says he hasnt done anything wrong and provided Revolut with all the information it 
requested promptly. He says he had to constantly chase Revolut via its in app chap chat, 
trying to find out what was happening with his accounts, and Revolut didnt respond to him.
Mr H complained to Revolut. It said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had decided to 
block his accounts. But it accepted that the review of Mr Hs accounts had taken longer than 
it should have due to backlogs it was experiencing. Revolut apologised to Mr H and offered 
him £75 compensation. Mr H wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Revolut hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked Mr Hs accounts. And said theyd acted in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. However, she said Revolut took too long to complete its review and 
couldve done things much quicker. So, she said Revolut should pay Mr H £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this had caused him. 
Revolut agreed. Mr H didnt. He wants more compensation for the anxiety and stress he 
suffered as a result of the blocks. He also wants Revolut to refund him the money he lost 
due to his failed property purchase. The investigator asked Mr H to provide evidence to 
support the impact Revolut actions had on him. Mr H provided some more information, but 
the investigator said it wasnt enough for her to recommend Revolut should do anything 
more to put things right. 
Mr H disagreed. So, the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Revolut has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mr Hs accounts also permit Revolut to review an account and ask its customers for 
information. 
The timing of Revoluts actions was unfortunate. Mr H says he was in the middle of trying to 
purchase a property in Dubai and had paid an £18,000 deposit to secure the sale when he 
discovered his accounts were blocked. Mr H also had to go to the trouble of collating and 
submitting information that Revolut requested about him and the source of his funds. So, I 
can understand why he found this whole experience with Revolut frustrating and upsetting.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Revolut to block Mrs Hs accounts. Revolut has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. And Im satisfied that in doing so Revolut were 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise. So, whilst 
I appreciate Mr H was inconvenienced when his accounts were blocked and reviewed, I 
cant say Revolut treated Mr H unfairly when it decided to restrict his accounts.
Turning to the issue of the amount of time Mr Hs accounts was restricted. Mr Hs account 
was blocked from September 2020 until July 2021. This is a considerable length of time and 
I can see from the in app chat that Mr H chased Revolut repeatedly to try and find out what 
was happening with his accounts. And that he had to wait 10 months for his funds to be 
released. 
Revolut has accepted it didnt progress its review of Mr Hs account between October 2020 
and February 2021. And has explained this was due to backlogs. So, Im satisfied that Mr H 
was caused some trouble and upset and I do think Revolut have caused unnecessary delays 
in releasing Mr Hs funds. Revolut has apologised and offered Mr H £200 compensation. 
Mr H says this isnt enough to adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset hes 
suffered. And due to the blocks on his accounts,  he says he lost out financially too as a 
result of a failed property purchase. 
Ive considered what Mr H has said about how Revoluts actions impacted him and Ive 
noted that despite being asked by the investigator to provide evidence to support the impact 
he says Revoluts actions had on him, he hasnt provided very much. 
Mr H has provided an email which he says is between him and the property developer of the 
property he was attempting to buy, which states that the purchase couldnt go ahead due to 
Mr H not fulfilling his end of the deal, and that Mr Hs deposit was forfeit. But this is dated 
September 2021, which was three months after Mr H had access to the money in his accounts. So, its not clear to me why Mr H didnt go ahead with the purchase at this time as 
he wouldve been able to use the money in his accounts to fund the purchase. Ive also not 
seen any contract of sale or that Mr H paid a deposit of £18,000. So, it wouldnt be fair of me 
to tell Revolut to pay financial loss or compensation for something theres no evidence of. 
Turning to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact Revoluts 
actions have had on Mr H and decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
In considering this, I note that Mr H hasnt provided any evidence that he was evicted from 
his home as a result of not being able to pay his rent due to the blocks on his accounts. So, 
Im unable to take this into consideration. 
Based on the evidence I have seen, I think its fair to say the delays caused by Revolut when 
it reviewed Mr Hs accounts caused Mr H worry and upset. And I agree some compensation 
is appropriate for this. I say this because Mr H had to spend time contacting Revolut and he 
had to wait 10 months for Revolut to release his funds. So, I can appreciate this wouldve 
been  inconvenient and upsetting for him. And its only right that Revolut recognises this. 
However, Im satisfied that £200 is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the 
trouble and upset Mr H was caused. So, while Mr H may disagree with me, Im satisfied that 
the compensation recommended by the investigator recognises the impact Revoluts actions 
had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. So, I wont be directing Revolut to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. To put things right Revolut Ltd 
should pay Mr H £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken for 
Revolut Ltd to complete its review of Mr Hs accounts and release his funds. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman