DRN-1869494
The complaint
Mr B is complaining that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has used the 
compensation it offered for the mis-selling of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
attached to his credit card, to reduce his outstanding debt. 
What happened
In November 2019, RBS offered Mr B compensation of £1,737.45 (after tax) for mis-selling 
him a PPI policy attached to his credit card. And RBS used the compensation to reduce 
Mr Bs outstanding debt on the credit card account.
Mr B says that he had previously been in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) in 2002. 
But he had completed his IVA receiving a certificate of completion in 2005.
Mr B considers that the conclusion of his IVA meant that the creditors (in this case RBS) had 
accepted an amount and this was in full and final settlement of the debt.
So Mr B considers that he has no account or debt with RBS, and it should pay him the 
compensation directly. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that what RBS had done was fair. 
As Mr B disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has agreed it mis-sold the PPI policy to Mr B, so I dont need to look at how it was sold. 
And Mr B hasnt complained about the amount RBS has offered in compensation, so I 
havent looked at this.
In this decision, Ive only looked at whether it was fair for RBS to use the compensation its 
offered to Mr B to reduce his outstanding debt.
Having done so, I think RBS has acted fairly. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr 
B, so I would like to take this opportunity to explain why.
Mr B considers that as he completed his IVA in 2005, the PPI compensation should be 
paid directly to him.
When Mr B entered into an IVA, the debts he owed werent legally cancelled or written off, 
they were frozen. This is important to understand. The debts didnt cease to exist when the 
IVA was successfully completed.RBS has shown, at the time Mr B entered into his IVA, the outstanding balance he owed 
RBS on his credit card was £7,148.85. RBS as a result of the IVA received a total of 
£3,625.87. So despite Mr B completing his IVA, there was still an outstanding balance of 
£3,522.98.
Mr B entering an IVA and then successfully completing it, meant by law, he couldnt be 
chased for the debt. But the debt Mr B has with RBS does still exist  because it hasnt been 
paid back in full.
RBS is still out of pocket for this money. And it isnt pursuing Mr B for the debt. It has 
accepted it owes Mr B money for the PPI compensation, so it owes him a debt. And it is 
setting off this debt for the PPI compensation against the debt Mr B owed for his spending 
on the credit card account which still exists. 
There is in law what is called the equitable right to set off which allows people to set- off 
closely connected debts. This means one person (A) can deduct from a debt they owe 
another person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them.
For this right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection between 
the PPI compensation and the outstanding debt. I must also consider whether it would be 
fair for RBS to set-off in this way. Both tests must be satisfied for me to find that RBS has an 
equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation against Mr Bs outstanding debt on his credit 
card account.
The PPI sold to Mr B was directly connected to his credit card. Using the right of set-off I 
have outlined above, I am satisfied the PPI compensation and the credit card debt are 
closely connected. They are both for the same account Mr B had with RBS.
And despite Mr B completing his IVA, both parties owed each other money relating to the 
same account. So it seems fair that one amount should be set off against the other. 
I appreciate Mr B completed his IVA 15 years ago - and can understand why he thinks 
completing his IVA and settling the account meant exactly that. Mr B is correct in that aspect 
- an IVA is a formal process, and he did complete it. But Mr B had the protection of the IVA 
which meant he didn't have to fully pay back all of his creditors and then subsequently 
couldn't be legally pursued for any outstanding amounts. 
In this case, RBS didn't pursue Mr B - but the PPI compensation is in relation to the credit 
card account. I think it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay Mr B the PPI compensation when 
Mr B no longer has to pay RBS the monies he borrowed and never fully repaid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. It was fair for The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc to use the compensation it owed Mr B to reduce his outstanding debt. 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.Matthew Horner
Ombudsman