DRN-4047469
The complaint
Mr J complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance and who Ill call Close 
Brothers.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I am not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this car was 
of unsatisfactory quality. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr J. The car here was already 
seven years and eight months old and had completed more than 85,000 miles. So, I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect it to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case with 
a brand new car. I think there would be a reasonable expectation that the car would already 
be experiencing signs of wear and tear and that some components may be reaching the end 
of their serviceable life. 
So Close Brothers arent responsible for any fault that occurs on Mr Js car. They are only 
responsible for faults that could fairly be said to have been present or developing on the car 
when it was supplied, and that could fairly be considered to be beyond normal wear and tear 
given the age and mileage of the car. 
There have been the following issues with the car since Mr J took ownership of it in 
December 2021:
December 2021  Engine Management light (EML) relating to air flow sensor.
February 2022 Mr J says a spring broke and needed replacing.
February 2022 rear crank oil seal leak.
April 2022 Mr J raised issues about the car burning oil, or the oil leak returning.
May 2022 drivetrain problem caused by blocked DPF.
June 2022 faulty fuel injector repaired at 96,624 miles.
July 2022 EGR valve problem and DPF problem.
August 2022 EGR valve repair. 
October 2022 EGR fault reoccurs, and Mr J stops using the car.
When a fault occurs that would be considered unrelated to normal wear and tear and that 
makes the car of unsatisfactory quality, the relevant legislation allows the business one 
opportunity to repair that fault. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have any 
warning lights illuminated when they first took receipt of the car and I think the EML problem 
in December 2021 was one that the business needed to put right for Mr J. He may have 
been entitled to reject the car when the repair failed, but I cant see Mr J asked to reject the 
car at that point and Im persuaded he therefore accepted the subsequent repairs to remedy 
the fault he had experienced.
Im not persuaded I have sufficient evidence to suggest the subsequent faults Mr J 
experienced with the car were present or developing at the point of supply. In the absence of 
expert testimony to the contrary they seem like problems that could be expected on a car of 
this age and mileage, especially when considering the additional mileage Mr J covered in the 
car.
The relevant legislation says that when we consider whether a vehicle has been of 
satisfactory quality we should also consider whether it has been durable. Ive thought about 
that here as its clear Mr J has experienced a few problems with the car. But I dont think 
Mr Js car could be considered not to have been suitably durable as I note he has been able 
to complete about 20,000 miles in it within the first 10 months of ownership. Thats 
significantly more than the average mileage for a car of this type.
So, I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest this car has been of unsatisfactory 
quality and Im not therefore asking Close Brothers to take any further action.
I understand that Mr J has now stopped making payments towards his agreement and hes 
explained to us that hes experiencing some financial difficulties. Id expect Close Brothers to 
show some forbearance in those circumstances and to see what they can do to help Mr J if 
he reaches out to them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman