DRN-3204621
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs Bs credit card account was opened in 1995. An initial credit limit of £750 was approved 
and was later increased as follows:
The credit limit was later reduced in June 2021 to £6,750.
In October 2020 Barclaycard told Mrs B it had reviewed the way it set some of its customers 
credit card limits and it had looked into whether the credit limit it had approved for her had 
been set too high. This prompted Mrs B to complain to Barclaycard as she thought 
Barclaycard hadnt done enough checks to ensure all the credit limits it provided were 
affordable to her. 
 
Barclaycard said the letter was sent to many of its customers who it felt may have been 
affected by a technical fault theyd identified in their credit assessment model from                 
April 2014 until February 2020. But Barclaycard said that having reviewed Mrs Bs 
circumstances - like many customers, she wasnt impacted by the fault when it increased her 
limit in May 2014 and February 2015. But it offered Mrs B £75 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused. It added that Mrs Bs complaint about all the previous limit 
increases had been raised too late. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mrs B referred her complaint to this service. One of investigators 
looked into it and she contacted Barclaycard. It was ultimately agreed that this service could 
investigate all the credit limit increases it had provided to Mrs B. But, having done so, the 
investigator didnt think Barclaycard had done anything wrong. And so, she thought the £75 
offered was fair.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, she said: she didnt recall 
making more than minimum payments to her account; she was using balance transfers 
offered by other lenders to reduce her Barclaycard balance; she was now in persistent debt 
position with these other lenders; and, she has a debit consolidation loan with another 
lender. She says that had Barclaycard completed sufficient checks when it increased her 
credit limit it would have known she was in a spiral of debt.  
The investigator considered Mrs Bs comments, but she didnt think this altered the outcome 
she reached. She acknowledged Mrs B had other debts, but she said the credit reference 
agency data that Barclaycard had provided indicated that she was managing her finances 
well as there was no adverse data recorded by other lenders. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Bs complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. I know Mrs B will be disappointed, so I will explain why.   
In October 2020, Barclaycard told Mrs B it had undertaken an internal review of some 
customers circumstances who had credit limits approved between April 2014 to the end of 
February 2020. Barclaycard have stressed that not all customers, who received a letter 
relating to the review, would have been impacted. But to ensure that all those impacted were 
identified, they reviewed all limits agreed during the affected period. 
So, its important to note that receiving one of these letters doesnt automatically mean     
Mrs Bs credit limit that was set too high, or that the lending was unaffordable. Barclaycard 
has simply identified a period where its lending decisions could have been more robust  
and it could be the case that the additional information they should have considered wouldnt 
have made a difference to their decision to lend, or to how much they were willing to lend to 
a particular consumer. 
But I can understand why receiving the letter has prompted Mrs B to raise concerns about all 
the credit limit increases Barclaycard approved on her credit card account. So, Ive 
considered the credit limits Barclaycard has approved for Mrs B.
Lenders have an obligation to lend responsibly. And though the rules on lending have 
changed over the years, all the rules and guidance refer to any checks being reasonable and 
proportionate. The checks will therefore vary but generally lenders need to consider such 
things as the amount being lent, how much must be repaid each month, the borrowers credit 
history and how the account has been managed. 
Barclaycard hasnt been able to show what checks were carried out when it approved      
Mrs Bs credit card in 1995 or when it increased her credit limit in 1996, 1997, 2007 and 
2008. And it has only provided limited information for the subsequent limit increases from 
2013. But as lenders are only required to keep information for six years, I dont think its 
unreasonable that Barclaycard isnt able to provide further information. 
Mrs B has provided some information about her income and outgoings at various points over 
the years. But much of what shes told us isnt supported by documentary evidence. And   
Mrs B has said that she has had trouble remembering all her details from so long ago. 
Again, this is understandable, but it does mean that I cant safely rely on Mrs B recollections 
from so long ago without documentary evidence. In addition, the credit report and bank 
statements Mrs B has provided only show information dating from 2015. So, they dont cover 
the period Im looking at. Overall, this means that I have to base my decision on very limited 
information. 
The original credit limit of £750 in 1995There is no documentary evidence going back this far. So, I dont know what information 
was considered by Barclaycard when it approved Mrs Bs credit card account application. 
However, as the limit was relatively small, and the account didnt default, I find it more likely 
than not this limit was affordable for Mrs B.
The limit increase from £750 to £950 in 1996
As with the above, there is no documentary evidence going back this far. However, at this 
point, the credit limit increase was still relatively small, and the minimum payment required 
each month would also have been quite low. And the account didnt default. So, I find it more 
likely than not this limit was affordable for Mrs B.
The limit increase from £950 to £1,300 in 1997
As with the above, there is no documentary evidence going back this far. But here, the limit 
increase was again relatively small, and the minimum monthly repayment wouldnt have 
increased significantly. And the account didnt default. So, I find it more likely than not this 
limit was affordable for Mrs B.
The limit increase from £1,300 to £2,300 in 2007
There is no documentary evidence about what Barclaycard did when considering this limit 
increase. Nor has Mrs B been able to evidence what her financial position was at the time. 
But I do have the credit card account statements for the lead up to this change. 
And the statements do show signs of Mrs B struggling financially from 2004 until                      
March 2007. But from March 2007 Mrs B was paying at least the minimum payment or more. 
So, by the time Barclaycard increased the credit limit at the end of 2007 Mrs B had been 
managing the account well for several months. 
Also, Mrs B didnt use the additional credit within her new limit until July 2008, when she 
spent about £1,100 on what appears to have been a holiday. And while at or around her new 
credit limit, Mrs B paid the minimum payments (about £50 a month) or more. This suggests 
to me Mrs B wasnt reliant on credit and could afford to maintain the outstanding balance at 
the point the limit was increased. 
There were also no signs of Mrs B using the account in a way not intended, or that she was 
struggling financially, in the lead up to the limit increase. For example, I cant see any 
gambling activity or a reliance on the account for day-to-day spending.
Based on the information available to me I find it more likely than not this limit was affordable 
for Mrs B.
The limit increase from £2,300 to £4,100 in 2008
There is no evidence about what Barclaycard did when considering this limit increase. Nor 
has Mrs B been able to show what her financial position was at the time. But I do have the 
account statements for the lead up to this change. 
The statements show Mrs B managing the account well, with the statement for the month 
before the change showing a payment equal to five times the minimum payment being 
made. Following the limit increase Mrs B went on to repay the balance on the account in full and 
account activity ceased until early 2013. When Mrs Bs balance reached around her new 
limit (in 2014), she made the minimum payments (about £90 a month) and continued to do 
so, even when her balance increased to within her 2013 limit. 
There were also no signs of Mrs B using the account in a way not intended, or her struggling 
financially, in the lead up to the limit increase. For example, I cant see any gambling activity 
or a reliance on the account for day-to-day spending.
Based on the information available to me I find it more likely than not this limit was affordable 
for Mrs B.
The limit increase from £4,100 to £8,100 in 2013
Barclaycard has been able to show some credit scoring data based on credit reference 
agency information it obtained when it approved this limit increase. The data suggests there 
were no known indications Mrs B would struggle with her new limit. But this data isnt very 
informative in understanding Mrs Bs finances at the time. 
Barclaycard hasnt been able to provide anything more about what it considered. Nor has 
Mrs B been able to show what her financial position was at the time. So, Ive again looked at 
the credit card account statements in the lead up to this change. 
The statements show Mrs B was managing the account well. Her payments were higher 
than the minimum payments required. When Mrs Bs balance reached around her new limit 
(in 2015), she made the minimum payments (about £180 a month) and continued to do so.
There were also no signs of Mrs B using the account in a way not intended, or her struggling 
financially, in the lead up to the limit increase. For example, I cant see any gambling activity 
or a reliance on the account for day-to-day spending.
Based on the information available to me I find it more likely than not this limit was affordable 
for Mrs B.
The limit increase from £8,100 to £12,100 in 2014.
As above, Barclaycard has been able to show some credit scoring data based on credit 
reference agency information which suggests there were no known indications Mrs B would 
struggle with her new limit. But again, this data isnt very informative in understanding       
Mrs Bs finances at the time. 
Barclaycard hasnt been able to provide anything more about what it considered. Nor has 
Mrs B been able to show what her financial position was at the time. So, Ive looked at the 
credit card account statements leading up to this change. 
The statements show at the time of the increase Mrs B had a balance of about £3,600. So, 
she wasnt using even half of her previous limit. This doesnt suggest a reliance on credit. 
And Mrs B had been making at least minimum payments each month.
Mrs B didnt use her new limit until 2015, and then the balance only reached about £8,500. 
This required a minimum payment of about £190 a month, which Mrs B paid. The balance 
was soon reduced to below £8,100 and didnt exceed it again until 2017 when Mrs B 
appears to have transferred £4,600 from another card to this account on a promotional 
interest rate. Following the balance transfer Mrs B had a balance of about £12,000. This required a 
minimum payment of about £270 a month, which Mrs B paid. And she paid the minimum 
payment each month until at least June 2021, which is the latest statement I have.
There were also no signs of Mrs B using the account in a way not intended, or her struggling 
financially, in the lead up to the limit increase. For example, I cant see any gambling activity 
or a reliance on the account for day-to-day spending. 
Based on the information available to me I find it more likely than not this limit was affordable 
for Mrs B. In any case, if it wasnt, I consider the ability to make the balance transfer on a 
promotional interest rate likely benefited Mrs B overall, meaning there would be no 
detriment. 
The limit increase from £12,100 to £14,500 in 2015
Mrs B balance never exceeded the earlier £12,100 credit limit and her limit has since been 
reduced. I therefore dont need to make a finding here as this limit increase had no material 
impact on Mrs B.
Based on the limited information available to me, for the reasons given above, I find it more 
likely than not that the credit limits approved were affordable for Mrs B. So, Im not going to 
ask Barclaycard to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
Barclaycard has previously offed B compensation of £75 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs B. As I find its most likely that the credit limits provided to    
Mrs B were affordable or didnt have a material impact on her, Im satisfied that £75 
compensation fairly reflects any worry caused. Barclaycard has indicated that its offer is still 
available. If Mrs B wishes to accept the offer, she will need to contact Barclaycard in that 
regard.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman