DRN-3661535
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down his claims made under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In January 2009, Mr W and Ms D bought timeshare membership points from a timeshare 
provider, enabling them to exchange those points for holiday accommodation. The points 
cost £28,258 and Mr W and Ms D paid for this by trading in another membership and 
borrowing £6,149 from BPF over ten years.1 The loan was repaid in April 2012.
In February 2022, Mr W made a claim to BPF using a professional representative (AS). In 
summary, the basis of the claim was as follows:
There were misrepresentations made about the timeshare and loan that BPF were 
jointly liable for under s.75 CCA.
There were unfair terms in the timeshare agreement that meant the debtor-creditor 
relationship between Mr W and BPF was also unfair following s.140A CCA. Further, 
the whole transaction was illegal as the timeshare was sold as an investment in 
contravention of both European and UK law.
At the time of the sale, the credit intermediary was not authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to broker loans. This meant there was a breach of s.27 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and the loan was 
unenforceable.
Mr W said that he does not remember any affordability assessment being carried out. 
AS alleges on his behalf that no checks were done and so the lending was 
irresponsible.
The sales company involved in Mr Ws sale is in administration and BPF has not tried 
to speak to the appointed administrators who control the companys ongoing affairs. 
It also meant that Mr W would be unable to recover any amount he may be awarded 
by a Spanish court.
To put things right, Mr W asked for a refund of everything paid under the loan agreement 
plus interest.
BPF responded to the claim. It said that the claims made under s.75 and s.140A CCA were 
both made outside of the periods set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). That meant it had 
a defence to the claims. BPF said that it had approached the timeshare supplier, who 
confirmed that its customers were still able to use their timeshares, despite the insolvency of 
the sales company. BPF also treated the claim as a complaint, so it said that if Mr W was not 
happy with its response, he could bring his complaint to our service, which he did.
One of our investigators issued a view on Mr Ws complaint, saying that she did not think 
1 The loan was taken in Mr Ws sole name, so only he is eligible to bring this complaint. But as the 
timeshare was purchased by Mr W and Ms D, I will refer to both of them at times in this decision.
BPF needed to do anything further. In summary, she said: 
BPF had, and has, complete defences to the s.75 and s.140A CCA claims as they 
were made outside of the limitation periods set out in the LA.
The timeshare provider did not need to hold FCA authorisation at the time of sale as 
it pre-dated the time when the FCA regulated consumer credit business.
There was no evidence to suggest the loan was unaffordable for Mr W.
The fact that the timeshare provider is now in liquidation does not mean its 
customers are not getting what they should under the agreement.
AS responded on Mr Ws behalf. It reiterated concerns about the way the timeshare had 
been sold and pointed to an English judgment that it said meant the timeshare agreement 
was unfair. AS said something different about the timeshare suppliers authorisation to 
broker loans. It was now accepted that the provider was authorised to broker loans, but it 
was now said that suppliers sales staff were self-employed and therefore not authorised to 
carry out regulated activities, such as to sign the loan documents. AS also pointed to another 
English judgment it said was relevant. But AS then went on to also say the timeshare 
provider was not authorised to broker loans.2 AS said that no affordability checks were 
carried out, which was a breach of parts of the FCA Handbook. Finally, AS said that Mr W 
was not advised that BPF paid commission to the timeshare provider, which was a further 
breach of the FCA Handbook.
As the parties did not agree with our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA
Mr W has made two claims against BPF under s.75 and s.140A CCA. Both of these claims 
are legal causes of action, so it is important to consider any defence that BPF may have to 
the claims.
S.75 CCA is a provision that makes a lender, in certain circumstances, jointly liable for a 
suppliers misrepresentations or breaches of contract where the credit was used to pay for 
the suppliers goods or services. It is not in dispute that s.75 CCA applies in Mr Ws case.
Here Mr W has said that the nature of the timeshare was misrepresented by the timeshare 
provider. A claim against the timeshare provider would be covered by s.2 LA, so the 
limitation period expired six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. And 
in any like claim against BPF, the same limitation defence would apply.
The date on which the cause of action accrued was the point in time Mr W entered into the 
agreement to buy the timeshare, as it was at that time he entered into an agreement based 
on alleged misrepresentations and suffered a loss by taking out the loan. It follows that the 
cause of action accrued in January 2009 and Mr W had until January 2015 to bring any 
claim. But no claim was made until February 2022, which was outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA. So BPF acted fairly in turning down the misrepresentation claim.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too and the time for limitation purposes starts 
2 These two arguments are contradictory. However, I will deal with both arguments in my decision.to run from the date the credit agreement ends. Here Mr W is asking for a refund of 
payments, so s.9 LA applies, meaning any claim had to be made within six years of 
April 2012. But as Mr W did not do that, I think BPF acted fairly in turning down the 
s.140A CCA claim.
As I think the s.140A claim was raised too late, I make no findings on how the timeshare 
came to be sold or whether any commission was paid, as those form part of the assessment 
to be undertaken under s.140A CCA.
Was the timeshare provider an authorised broker?
At the time of sale, the regulation of consumer credit was performed by the Office of Fair 
Trading and not the FCA. So I think AS was mistaken when it initially said the supplier did 
not hold the right FCA authority, as it was not needed. 
I have also considered the allegation that the sales staff were not employees of the 
timeshare provider. AS raised this in response to the investigators view and without any 
evidence in support. I have nothing from AS explaining who the person was that it says 
arranged the loan on behalf of BPF or their employment status. Nor do I have anything 
explaining why AS says the timeshare supplier in general did not employ the people who 
undertook the formalities of arranging loans with BPF. Without that, I do not think I need to 
consider this point further.
Were the right affordability checks carried out at the time of sale?
Mr W has said that he does not recall any checks being carried out at the time of sale and 
AS says this means the lending was irresponsible. Our investigator said that she could not 
see any evidence that Mr W found the loan unaffordable.
When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether 
the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if BPF 
did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed to do 
something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr W lost out as a result of its failings. 
Mr W has provided no evidence whatsoever that he would have found, nor found, it difficult 
to repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
The effect of the timeshare provider being in liquidation
Our investigator did not think that the timeshare provider being in liquidation meant Mr W 
and Ms D were not able to get the things they were entitled to under the timeshare 
agreement. In response, I cannot see that Mr W has made any claim that the agreement 
was breached. Rather, I think the complaint is that, as the company is in liquidation, it could 
not pay any sums awarded by a Spanish court. But I am not aware of any proceedings taken 
out against the timeshare provider in Spain for which BPF could be liable. So I cannot see 
how BPF could be responsible for covering any amounts awarded in Spain, irrespective of 
the status of the timeshare provider.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I do not think there is any reason to uphold the complaint 
made by Mr W for any of the reasons advanced.
I was also referred to another decision I have issued in another consumers complaint. But 
each complaint is decided on its own merits, so I do not think that other decision means 
Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman