DRN-3025426
The complaint
Trustees Mrs B, Mrs D and Mrs W complain, on behalf of trust S, that Phoenix Life Limited 
(Phoenix) didnt pay the sum they expected when they made a claim on the whole of life 
assurance policy for the late Mr S. They said a much larger figure had previously been 
quoted and since then Mr S had continued to pay premiums. 
The trustees are represented in their complaint. 
 
What happened
In 1956, Mr S took out a with-profit whole of life policy for a sum assured of £1,000. The 
policy was placed in trust in June 2003 with Mrs B, Mrs D and Mrs W appointed as trustees. 
In August 2020, the trustees made a claim on the policy after Mr S passed away. Phoenix 
paid out £6,343.66 which they said represented the claim value on the policy. 
However, in September 2020, the representative complained to Phoenix about the amount 
which had been paid out. He said in 2002 they had previously been quoted a claim value of 
£19,464.40 and Mr S continued to pay premiums for the 18 years which followed this quote. 
They asked Phoenix to reconsider the amount paid out. 
Phoenix responded and said the claim value which was paid out was correct. It was made 
up of the sum assured of £1,000 plus existing bonuses. Also, no terminal bonus was 
included. 
The trustees remained unhappy and the representative asked us to investigate. The 
Investigator issued their view explaining why they didnt think Phoenix had done anything 
wrong. It seemed the claim value was correct, and Phoenix sought to reasonably inform Mr 
S that the terminal bonus wasnt guaranteed. 
However, the representative didnt agree. Ive summarised his points below.
A lay person wouldnt understand that a terminal bonus could be removed/reduced 
when the financial markets were good or stable. Terminal bonuses were traditionally 
a sign of a financial climate and as such one would only understand they could be 
reduced (or very rarely removed) after a financial crash or market correction. 
Mr S was never told that a terminal bonus didnt apply and had been permanently 
removed, only that it might not be applied. 
As the terminal bonus could change, Mr S would have had to contact Phoenix each 
year to ascertain the level of terminal bonus. This would mean a lack of trust and 
confidence had broken down between the provider and the client. Also, that this 
would mean he wasnt treated fairly as a customer.
Even though the sum paid in was less than the sum actually paid out, this doesnt 
mean it was a fair value. The return was significantly less than inflation over a period 
of six decades and almost three times lower than the stock market return over the 
same period. 
The Investigator didnt consider Mr Ss health and ability to understand the literacy 
sent to him, bearing in mind the plan had been running for fifty years when the issue 
arose, and a terminal bonus had been present for probably decades earlier. 
If a provider can remove a terminal bonus at any point without notice, even when 
financial markets are good and stable, there is no protection for the consumer and 
financial plans would be brought into question. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isnt a great deal of information available from when the policy was sold. This isnt 
unusual given the time which has passed. Ive based my decision on the information I do 
have and what Im persuaded, on balance, is more likely to have happened. 
Phoenix have provided sample copies of the older policy documents they have available. 
Although the exact dates of the versions arent clear, its likely they reflect some of the 
information Mr S would have received at the time he took out the policy. I can see under 
special provisions it explained that a reversionary bonus (now called an annual bonus) 
would be applicable at such rate as may be declared by the directors. There is no reference 
to a terminal or final bonus in the available documentation, so Im unable to say on balance 
Mr S understood it would be guaranteed.
Ive also reviewed the more recent terms and conditions document provided by Phoenix and 
I can see they explained that as a minimum they would pay the sum assured and all annual 
bonuses. In the terms and conditions, they did say they may add a final bonus. But Im not 
convinced this meant Mr S could expect a final bonus to be paid. This information is 
consistent with other information provided throughout the course of the policy (for example, 
annual statements). 
Nevertheless, Ive considered the letter provided by Phoenix in September 2002. I can see 
they provided an annual statement and confirmed the sum assured was £1,000 with annual 
bonuses of £5,159.62. They said the basic death claim value was just over £6,000. But they 
also explained if a claim was made that day then the terminal bonus would be £13,304.78. 
This left a total claim value of £19,464.40. However, in the same letter they also said that the 
terminal bonus element was not guaranteed and was subject to change at any time. Im 
content this letter was reasonably clear in setting out the claim value as of that time and was 
clear the terminal bonus wasnt guaranteed. 
Ive also been provided with annual statements which were sent by Phoenix between 2012 
and 2019. I can see the terminology was updated somewhat to describe the existing annual 
bonus (reversionary bonus) and final bonus (terminal bonus). But Im content it remains 
reasonably clear. The statements set out the sum assured and the existing annual bonus 
and said the total claim value was £6,423.86. They did not provide the final bonus in the 
value. However, they did explain that a final bonus might be payable, but they were reviewed 
regularly and not guaranteed. It stated that this was why they had not shown it on the 
statement. They also signposted to their guide on how to manage the with-profit fund which 
could be viewed on their website or a copy could be requested by calling them. I have also considered what information was available in the guide on their website and what 
was likely to have been available to Mr S should he have requested it. I can see under 
section four it stated that Mr S could contact them if he wanted an illustration of what he 
might expect to receive. Ive seen a handwritten note on correspondence from 2002 which 
shows Phoenix were contacted about the claim value and seem to have provided 
information at this time. 
Also, Ive seen a copy of correspondence from Phoenix to Mr Ss financial advisor in 2013 
where information was provided including the final bonus. Again, it confirmed the sum wasnt 
guaranteed. So, Im satisfied it was open to Mr S to request information about his policy 
throughout its duration. And Im not persuaded that if information had been requested that it 
would indicate a lack of trust or that he was treated unfairly as commented by the 
representative.
Moreover, Ive considered what the advisor has said about Mr S being a lay person and not 
understanding that a final bonus could be removed even if the markets were performing well. 
However, the information available online  including Phoenixs guide on with-profit bonuses 
confirms that they compare the underlying values of maturing policies with the value of their 
guaranteed benefits. It also went on to explain the underlying value of the policies included 
the investment performance of the fund over the lifetime of the policies. And Im mindful one 
of the purposes of the with-profit funds was to reduce customers exposure to the ups and 
downs of the stock market.
 
Ive also thought about what the representative has said about Mr Ss health. Phoenix have 
confirmed they received the lasting power of attorney in 2019. Ive seen it was registered in 
2016 and Ive seen reasonably clear policy information was provided over the course of a 
number of years before this date. Also, I can see he placed the policy in trust in 2003. So, 
Im of the view its likely he was able to ask for further advice or support if he didnt 
understand the documents he received around that time. Therefore, the evidence Ive seen 
doesnt persuade me that Phoenix should have taken further steps to ensure Mr S fully 
understood the information. 
Additionally, Ive thought about what the advisor has said about the rate of inflation and the 
stock market returns being greater. However, the point that a better return may have been 
made with other financial products doesnt tell me what was paid out for the with-profit policy 
taken out by Mr S was incorrect. The amount paid out by Phoenix was in line with the 
information they had provided about the sum assured and existing bonuses. Also, Phoenix 
have confirmed no final bonus was declared. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for the trustees, but Im not persuaded 
Phoenix have done anything wrong here. The claim value paid out included the sum assured 
and existing annual bonuses. There was no final bonus applicable but Im content Phoenix 
made it reasonably clear this wasnt something which was guaranteed. They also provided 
sufficient information about how the policy worked and explained how to find more 
information including up to date information about the application of a final bonus. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D, Mrs B and 
Ms W as trustees of Trust to accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 Laura Dean
Ombudsman