DRN-3364217
The complaint
Ms B, on behalf of her late husbands estate, complains about the service she received from 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) in dealing with a claim to receive the 
benefits from his pension plan. She also complains about the delay in making the payment 
to her.
What happened
Mr M held a pension plan through his employer with L&G. Unfortunately on 5 October 2020 
he died. The actual cause of death was unknown initially and Ms B was left to sort out his 
financial affairs with an interim death certificate, while the coroner continued its enquiries into 
the cause of death. This included Ms B making a claim to L&G for his pension benefits which 
she did by returning the required documentation on 21 October 2020.
L&G responded to confirm that it couldnt progress the claim until it had received the death 
certificate.  So Ms B contacted L&G to explain that the death certificate could take between 
four and six months to issue. She was told that L&G had written to the coroner for an 
explanation of the circumstances around Mr Ms death  as the trustees of the pension 
scheme needed to ensure there were no suspicious circumstances before authorising the 
claim.  
L&G accepts there were further delays in obtaining the trustees permission and the claim for 
Mr Ms pension benefits wasnt authorised to be paid to until 23 November 2011.  
So Ms B complained. She said shed contacted L&G on the advice of her late husbands 
employer and provided the information requested, although the death certificate she was 
issued with was an interim one as further enquiries were needed to determine the cause of 
death. She said L&G then told her that no decision could be made until the actual death 
certificate was issued and when she contacted it to discuss the matter further was told that 
she might be a suspect in the matter of Mr Ms death.
 
She said that although the coroner was subsequently able to sort out the matter with L&G, 
further duplicitous requests for information were made and the claim had yet to be paid out. 
She complained about this delay and the manner in which she was treated during the claims 
process.
L&G said it didnt add the information it received from Ms B onto the file until around two 
weeks after receipt  which it accepted was a delay. It also accepted that it ought to have 
showed more empathy in its dealings with her. 
It said it would pay interest at the rate of 8% (£22.59) for the period of delay in making 
payment and £150 compensation for the distress its actions had caused. It apologised for its 
errors, although it said it had followed the correct process in requesting further information.
Ms B accepted that the payment of interest did reflect the delay in meeting her claim. But 
having consulted our guidelines on distress and inconvenience awards, she felt that her 
situation should be defined as very significant distress and that a higher tariff of 
compensation award should therefore apply. She also wanted a formal finding of poor 
service by L&G to be noted and wanted to ensure no one in the same position suffered the 
same experience.
She brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. He 
thought L&Gs corrective actions had been sufficient and he didnt think it should be asked to 
do anything more. He thought L&G had apologised and that the compensation payment was 
at the level he would expect to see for such matters. 
But Ms B didnt agree. She set out the facts around her late husbands death and explained 
the grief, shock and anxiety she suffered, which she said was then compounded by L&Gs 
insensitive and unnecessary actions around her claim. She said the administrative delays 
as well as the flippant, hurtful and damning statement about her possible involvement in 
Mr Ms death caused further distress at an already very difficult time for her.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view but asked Ms B what see wanted from 
L&G to resolve the matter. She explained that she had set out her expectations in her 
original complaint and wanted a thorough explanation of all errors throughout and how they 
intend to ensure it would not happen to anyone else. She also wanted a formal finding of 
poor service by the ombudsman and to find that L&Gs actions caused substantial upset and 
inconvenience, and award an appropriate level of compensation.
So, as the matter remained unresolved, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I think L&G has 
done enough to put things right here and I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
 
I know this is an outcome which will disappoint Ms B and Ive seen the strength of her 
feelings about the matter  which I completely understand  through her submissions. I was 
sorry to learn about Mr Ms death and I have sympathy for the situation Ms B found herself in 
just a couple of weeks after losing her husband. So Ill explain the reasons in making my 
decision.
I can only imagine what a difficult and upsetting time this must have been for Ms B  
particularly with the unexpected way in which she lost her husband. And I can assure her 
that Ive read her submissions very carefully and do appreciate the circumstances 
surrounding Mr Ms death. 
Theres no suggestion that this involved Ms B, simply that as the coroner had been unable to 
determine the cause of death straight away, she was given an interim death certificate which 
was designed to help her deal with the raft of financial matters she was left to sort out. 
I dont underestimate that this would have been difficult enough for her, without the 
additional distress and upset caused by any suggestion that she might have had some 
involvement in Mr Ms tragic death.
So Ive looked at the two main complaint points here. These relate to the actual delay in 
making the payment of Ms Bs claim and the way in which she was treated during the 
process.
The payment of the claimL&G hasnt disputed that it should have paid the claim earlier. It set out in its response letter 
the date by which it should have completed the payment  and has paid interest, at the rate 
of 8% simple, for the number of days by which it accepted it had delayed matters.
And Ms B, in her response to us, said she generally accepted the offer of the interest 
payment for the delay in completing the claim. I asked L&G to confirm its process when 
paying such claims and it confirmed that it disinvests the fund the day that it receives a death 
certificate. So Im satisfied that in this case there was no financial loss caused by the delay, 
just the need to apply interest for the number of days of the delay. And Im satisfied that L&G 
has done that here and has applied an interest rate which is generally used to represent the 
deprivation of money for a period of time. 
So, overall, Im satisfied that L&G has adequately compensated Ms B for the loss she 
suffered in not being paid the claim at the earliest possible opportunity.
The service L&G gave Ms B during the claim process 
 
Ms B has been clear and consistent in describing and confirming how she thinks L&G 
treated her poorly during the process. In her response to the investigators assessment she 
said,  I had to provide paperwork 3 times before they accepted it, I had to contact the 
coroner due to a flippant, hurtful and quite damning statement made to me and I cannot 
begin to explain how much further stress and anxiety this caused me. Trying to sort all these 
issue out was also very time consuming to me. 
So I asked L&G for its comments about the duplicitous request for documentation and the 
assertion that it contacted the wrong coroner about the information it required around the 
death certificate  thus causing further delays and more crucially adding to the stress and 
anxiety Ms B was suffering.
Ive seen that L&G received a completed information request form from Ms B on 
21 October 2020. Of the documents that were also required one was the marriage 
certificate. Ive seen that the copy L&G received was illegible and Ive also seen it requested 
another copy on 2 November 2020. That request also included an apology for any upset 
caused by L&Gs further enquiries  which would have been as a result of the telephone 
conversation of 26 October 2020. But I havent been provided with any evidence to show 
that L&G made any repeated documentation requests, apart from the illegible marriage 
certificate, which I think it needed to request in order to be able to proceed with the claim.
So at this point I dont think L&G burdened Ms B with unnecessary requests for 
documentation, which I think would have caused her additional distress and concern  but I 
do think it delayed in making the request, which I note was 10 days after it received the 
original documentation and completed claim form. L&G has accepted that this was an 
unnecessary delay and Ive taken this into account when assessing any overall level of 
compensation that might be due to Ms B for the shortfall in its service.
With regards to L&G approaching the wrong coroners office, Ive seen that the interim death 
certificate was issued by the Derby & Derbyshire coroners area.  This was the office that 
L&G sent its request for further information to, however it would seem that the matter was 
being dealt with by a different office at that time. 
So I dont think L&G did anything wrong in that respect. It needed to confirm the 
circumstances around Mr Ms death as a trustee requirement and approached  to the best 
of its knowledge  the office that had provided the interim death certificate. In any case I 
note that the coroner said the other office would contact L&G, which would suggest that its 
request has been passed on immediately by the first coroners office.The remaining aspect of L&Gs service that Ms B complained about was that it had, during a 
telephone conversation, suggested she might be involved in the suspicious circumstances 
around Mr Ms death. Ms B said this compounded her stress and anxiety and added to her 
grief and caused her to have to contact the coroner to ensure there was no information it 
held about the circumstances around his death that she wasnt aware of.
So I listened carefully to the call that Ms B made on 26 October 2020, to understand the 
scope of what was discussed. At the beginning of the call Ms B explained that shed 
received an email stating that L&G needed Mr Ms death certificate in order to be able to 
progress the claim. She explained that the coroner said it would take between four and six 
months to get the actual certificate and that shed been assured by the coroner that the 
interim certificate would be sufficient documentation to complete the claim.
The claim handler explained that with the coroners interim certificates what were looking 
for from the coroner is that there were no suspicious activities or third party involvement. Its 
something that the trustees need to have before they can sign off on anything, we have 
written to the coroner just to confirm that. Ms B then explained there were no suspicious 
circumstances, and the claim handler said, I appreciate that, I mean we dont want to put 
anybody through additional stress but it is something our trustees have to have. 
 
Ms B then explained why it could take four to six months to get the certificate. The claims 
handler confirmed that, coroners are usually quite good at responding and that sometimes 
the coroner can provide the necessary information without needing to advise on an exact 
cause of death to us It sounds so harsh and were not accusing anybody of anything. Its 
just about ticking a box to complete due diligence. Thereafter the handler outlined the 
timescale of how long it might take to complete the claim. 
So I dont think it could be said that the claims handler suggested Ms B was involved in any 
suspicious circumstances around her husbands death. I think they simply tried to explain 
the process as it was and why it was needed in this case. But I do think the claims handler 
could have been more sympathetic about Ms Bs situation and should have understood that 
the email she received from L&G would almost certainly have made her think that she would 
have wait for up to six months for the claim to be processed. So I think L&G should have 
been clearer in explaining what was required and why, without making Ms B think there was 
a different agenda in play here. 
For example, when setting out the timeline involved, the claims handler used the word 
suspicious twice in her explanation. Considering the context of that word in relation to 
Mr Ms death, I think Ms B would have worried about the outcome. 
Ms B knew the circumstances around Mr Ms death were not suspicious, it was simply that 
the coroner had been unable to confirm a precise medical cause of his death. I think if L&G 
had simply explained that it had asked the coroner to confirm that was the position, I dont 
think the impact on Ms B would have been the same. 
So I dont think the claims handler meant to infer that there were suspicious circumstances 
around Mr Ms death, but I do think they should have been more sensitive in the way they 
discussed the (necessary) process that had to be undertaken in order to allow the trustees of 
the pension scheme to authorise payment to the correct beneficiary  which in this case was 
Ms B. 
I know that Ms B is upset about the way she was treated and thinks it was made worse by 
the need for her to have to contact the coroner to ensure there wasnt any further information 
around her husbands death that she hadnt been told. I dont underestimate just how 
concerning and upsetting this would have been for her. But I have to consider that sometimes a complainants circumstances are already 
distressing, without that being entirely the businesss fault  and I have to assess the added 
impact any errors may have had and what additional distress and upset they caused. Ms B 
herself said that Mr Ms death caused her shock, stress, anxiety and grief, so my 
consideration has to be what additional impact L&G had on these emotions.
I think, when taken overall, L&G impacted Ms B by delaying the claim as a result of not 
adding her original documentation to its file as quickly as it should  for which its paid 
interest for the deprivation of not having the money paid earlier, and by its lack of empathy 
and clarity when discussing the sensitive situation of having to confirm the circumstances 
around Mr Ms death with the coroner. 
So I have carefully considered L&Gs payment of £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the actions Ive set out above. Ms B has said she thinks this offer is derisory and I 
understand her feelings here. However, having carefully considered the matter and taking 
everything into account, I think this is a fair and reasonable offer for the degree of distress 
caused and I think the sum paid to Ms B is within the range of what Id expect to see for a 
situation such as this. So Im not going to ask L&G to do any more.
Ms B wants us to mark this matter by a formal finding of poor service and wants the 
compensatory amount to recognise the distress that L&Gs actions caused her, or anybody 
who had been recently bereaved. And I understand why she would want to ensure such a 
situation isnt repeated for anyone in the same circumstances. 
But this service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the 
role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead we look to resolve individual complaints 
between a consumer and a business. So it isnt appropriate for me to go further here than 
considering whether the payment of compensation Ms B has received is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I think Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds payment of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused - plus the lost interest of £22.59 for the delay in paying the claim, is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I dont think it needs to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman