DRN-3033596
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his car insurance policy. He 
also complains that Aviva unfairly avoided another car insurance policy he took out following 
the cancellation. 
What happened
Mr T purchased a car insurance policy with Aviva which was paid for on a monthly basis. As 
there was a missed payment for the policy, Aviva wrote to Mr T to ask him to get in touch 
and arrange payment. It said if it didnt hear from Mr T then it would cancel his policy. As 
Aviva didnt hear from Mr T, it cancelled his policy and wrote to him to let him know. 
A few months later Mr T was stopped by the police for driving without insurance and his car 
was impounded. Mr T calls Aviva to find out why his car was showing as uninsured. Aviva 
said it had cancelled his policy due to non-payment. Mr T wanted Aviva to put the policy 
back in place, but Aviva said as the policy had been cancelled a few months before, Mr T 
would need to set up a new policy. Mr T then went online to take out a new policy, but due to 
an issue with setting the policy up online he called Aviva to complete the purchase. 
During the call with Aviva there was an issue with taking payment, so Aviva re-generated the 
quote and Mr T completed the purchase over the phone. A few months later Mr Ts car is 
stolen from the driveway of his parents house. Because of this Mr T claimed on his policy for 
his stolen car. 
Aviva review the claim and while investigating it discover that when the policy was taken out, 
not all of Mr Ts claims had been declared. It also discovered an error by its advisor when re-
generating the new quote. Because of this, Aviva apologised for the error and offered Mr T 
£125 compensation. Aviva also avoided Mr Ts policy as it said if it had known about all of Mr 
Ts claims then it wouldnt have insured him. 
Mr T didnt think this was fair and complained. He said he declared all of his claims on the 
online quote and it must have been a data loss which meant they werent all saved. He also 
said his claims were on his previous policy with Aviva so it should have known about them.
Aviva looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said there was no record of a data loss 
on its online application process and that as Mr T was generating a new quote it wouldnt 
automatically have taken details from a previous policy. Aviva also said Mr T had a 
responsibility to provide accurate information when taking out the policy. As Aviva said it 
wouldnt have covered Mr T, it maintained its position to avoid the policy, decline the claim 
and refund his premium. Mr T didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
found that on the online quote there had been two non-fault claims declared, but the four 
fault claims on Mr Ts policy hadnt been. She also didnt find any record of there being a 
data loss with the online quote. She also noted Mr T had accessed his policy documents 
online and then called Aviva to add courtesy car cover, as hed noticed it was missing. 
Because of this she thought Aviva had acted fairly in avoiding the policy. She also found that 
Aviva had written to Mr T three times about his previous policy to let him know about it being 
cancelled. Because of this she didnt recommend Mr Ts complaint be upheld. 
Mr T didnt agree and provided several reasons as to why his complaint should be upheld. 
Essentially, he said by Aviva having an issue with the payment and the advisor making an 
error, it showed there must have been an issue with the online quote. He also thought Aviva 
should know about his claims history because of his previous policy and that he hadnt 
received the cancellation letters or the policy documents for his new policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr T. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it. 
Mr T has raised points in regard to the claims on his previously policy. In this complaint Ive 
only considered the cancellation of his previous policy and the avoidance of the second 
policy. If Mr T is unhappy with the outcome of his previous claims, he would need to raise 
them separately. 
For ease of reading Ill address the complaint issues in date order. 
Cancellation of 2019 policy
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policies allow Aviva to cancel in certain situations. One of 
the examples given is non-payment of the monthly payments. The terms go on to say Aviva 
will notify Mr T of this in writing and give him 14 days notice. Aviva wrote to Mr T on 28 
December 2019 to inform him there was a missed payment. The letter also explained that if 
payment hadnt been made by 13 January 2020 then the insurance policy would be 
cancelled. As Aviva didnt receive payment or hear from Mr T by 13 January 2020, it 
cancelled the policy and wrote to him to let him know. It also sent another letter a few weeks 
later regarding the outstanding amount.
From reviewing the notice of cancellation sent in December and the letter to let Mr T know 
his policy had been cancelled. Im satisfied they were clear about his policy being cancelled 
and Aviva did what it was supposed to under the policy to let him know. I appreciate Mr T 
said he didnt receive these letters and feels that Aviva should have called him. However, as 
Aviva did what it was supposed to under the policy and sent two notifications to let Mr T 
know his policy would be cancelled. Im not persuaded Aviva did anything wrong. 
Avoidance of 2020 policy
When Mr T discovered in April 2020 that his previous policy had been cancelled, he 
contacted Aviva to re-instate it. As the policy had been cancelled a few months before Aviva 
said it wasnt possible to re-instate it and let Mr T know he would need to set up a new 
policy. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Mr T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
filled in the online quote and only declared two non-fault claims. Aviva said he should have 
declared four other fault claims as well. Mr T says he did declare all the claims and it must 
have been a system error if they werent all recorded. 
Ive seen the question on the online application, and it says: Have you been involved in any 
claims or incidents in the last 4 years?  it also has an explanation of what needs to be 
entered. Im satisfied a clear question was asked. The record of the online quote shows only 
two non-fault claims were entered in response to the question. 
Aviva has explained that there is no record of a data loss. Even if I accepted Mr Ts point 
there was a data loss, I still think he failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. I say that because Mr Ts policy documents have a section which say:
accident or losses in the past 4 years, under this it says None. At the top of this page in 
bold it says This is the information that you have provided to us when applying for your 
policy. You have confirmed you have answered the questions to the best of your knowledge 
and belief. It is very important that you check that it is complete and accurate. If it isnt, 
please call us immediately on ... 
I understand the reason the document says none is because Aviva made an error when 
transferring the data from Mr Ts online quote. If Aviva hadnt made an error, I think it would 
it have shown the two non-fault claims that Mr T declared.  But whatever the reason, the 
information on the policy documents wasnt correct. And Aviva has shown that Mr T checked 
his documents online the same day they were issued. He also noticed that he didnt have 
courtesy car cover and called up to add it. Im therefore satisfied he received his documents, 
checked them and didnt correct the error regarding his claims. Therefore, Im satisfied Mr T 
made a misrepresentation when taking out his policy, so Ive looked at whether it would have 
made a difference.
Aviva has shown its underwriting details to show that if Mr T had declared the correct 
information when he took out his policy, then it wouldnt have offered him cover. I understand 
Mr T has said he had these claims on his previous policy with Aviva, but as some of the 
claims were during the previous policy year, I need to look at what Aviva would have done 
when he took out a new policy. As thats what happened here, and Aviva has shown that for 
a new business quote it wouldnt have offered cover. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ts misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Aviva has refunded the policy premium to Mr T and rejected his claim. This is the remedy its 
allowed to do if it deems the qualifying misrepresentation to be careless. Taking the circumstances into account Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to deal with Mr Ts 
misrepresentation as careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. 
Taking all of this into account Im satisfied that Avivas offer of £125 for not transferring some 
of the details over correctly is fair and reasonable. Im therefore not going to interfere with 
Avivas decision to turn down Mr Ts claim, avoid his policy and refund the premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limiteds offer of 
£125 is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman