DRN-3587929
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited (MAFS) recommended 
she transfer benefits held in two occupational defined-benefit (DB) pension schemes to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). The funds were subsequently invested in high-risk 
investments which Mrs E says werent suitable for her.
What happened
Mrs E was introduced to MAFS through an unregulated introducer, Mr B, in 2015. Mrs E 
was interested in accessing her pensions so she could take the maximum tax-free cash 
(TFC) to help with her husbands business and so she could retire immediately.
In December 2015 Mr M produced a pension transfer report in which he recommended 
Mrs E transfer the cash equivalent transfer value of both of her DB schemes to a SIPP with a 
business Ill refer to as L. Mr M set out what he thought a suitable asset allocation for Mrs E 
would be, based on her medium attitude to risk. He then recommended that the funds be 
invested with a discretionary fund manager (DFM) who Ill refer to as B, using their model 
portfolio service. Mr M suggested Mrs E use one of two portfolios but said it would not be 
responsible for the investment management and would have no involvement in the fund 
selection.
Mrs E accepted the recommendations. On 12 January 2016, £128,948.42 was transferred to 
the SIPP, followed by £132,865.00 on 26 May 2016. Mrs E took total TFC of £65,453.36. 
MAFS took a fee of 3% of the transfer values and would take 0.5% of the pension value in 
return for ongoing advice.
£92,184.06 was transferred to B on 10 February 2016 and Mrs Es funds started to be 
invested with B on 16 February 2016. Another £95,482.80 was invested with B on 
2 June 2016.
Mrs E started taking a pension income of £1,500 per month from 1 June 2016.
In early 2017 MAFS started looking into pension advice provided where Mr B had acted as 
the introducer. Mrs E found she had lost significant funds through high risk investments with 
B. MAFS initiated a complaint on her behalf against B, but B went into administration. Mrs E 
subsequently made a complaint to the FSCS and received £50,000 to compensate her for 
her investment loss. Mrs E then complained about MAFS as she didnt think it had assessed 
her attitude to risk correctly and this had led to higher risk investments being placed. She 
thought MAFS had deflected responsibility for the advice.
MAFS didnt uphold the complaint. It said the pension advice was suitable and it was Bs 
responsibility to make suitable investments.
Mrs E referred her complaint to our service, clarifying that she wasnt complaining about the 
advice to transfer her DB schemes  she was just unhappy about the investment advice.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think MAFS had met the regulators 
requirements when making the recommendation as he couldnt see any communication 
between Mr M and B in respect of the investments envisaged for Mrs E. He didnt think 
suitable advice could be given without understanding how B intended to invest Mrs Es 
funds. Instead, he noted B had invested in higher risk assets from the outset and believed 
that with appropriate enquiries and oversight from MAFS this wouldnt have happened. The 
investigator recommended Mrs E should be compensated by comparing the performance of 
her SIPP with a benchmark in line with her attitude to risk. He also awarded compensation of 
£300 for the upset caused.
MAFS didnt agree and asked for a final decision. It said it had met the regulators 
requirements by setting out what it considered a reasonable asset allocation would be for 
Mrs E. It maintained that B was responsible for making suitable investment 
recommendations and it had clearly told Mrs E that it wasnt responsible for the investment 
decisions. It also thought that Mrs E would benefit twice if MAFS was required to 
compensate her for her full loss, given shed already received compensation from the FSCS.
The investigator confirmed to MAFS that as a condition of accepting compensation from the 
FSCS she was obliged to return it if she recovered the same loss from a third party.
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
For clarity, I should first say that Mrs E has not complained about the advice to transfer 
either of her DB schemes. She has instead complained about the investments 
recommended by MAFS and the lack of oversight of B.
WhiIst I havent considered the suitability of the advice to transfer the DB schemes on its 
own, I do have to consider the suitability of the investment recommendations given to Mrs E 
which formed part of the overall pension transfer advice.
As MAFS will no doubt know, at the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear 
that in order to suitably advise on transferring DB schemes to a SIPP, a firm needed to 
consider the suitability of the underlying investments to be held in it. An alert from the 
regulator in 2014 stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
 
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
So, I think MAFS adviser, Mr M, had a duty to consider the suitability of the investments 
intended to be held within Mrs Es SIPP and understand them fully. MAFS has said that B 
was responsible for making suitable investments for Mrs E and that it would not be responsible for investment decisions. I agree that B also had a duty to ensure the 
investments it made were suitable for Mrs E, but I dont think that absolved MAFS of doing 
the same, at least when it gave its pension transfer advice at the outset.
Under COBS 2.1.2 MAFS couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to Mrs E 
under the regulatory system. So, saying it wasnt responsible for the investments didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable - again, this 
had to include consideration of how Mrs Es funds would be invested. So, MAFS couldnt 
separate out the two elements. Its advice on the suitability of the pension transfers had to 
include the suitability of the underlying investments. I dont think there was any ambiguity 
regarding the regulators position on the matter.
Furthermore, in the copy of Mrs Es SIPP application that MAFS sent to the SIPP provider, 
under Professional Adviser Details, Mr M stated yes to the following statement:
Advice given at point of sale to client that takes account of the intended underlying 
investment strategy.
So, I think Mr M understood his obligations in that regard. However, based on what Ive 
seen, the advice fell short of the regulators expectations.
MAFS says the advice met the regulators requirement because in the suitability report Mr M 
set out what he believed a suitable asset allocation would be for Mrs E and he 
recommended she invest her funds in Bs model portfolio service. MAFS says it was then Bs 
responsibility to ensure the investments selected met Mrs Es attitude to risk. But MAFS 
remained Mrs Es financial adviser and so had overall responsibility and oversight in 
ensuring that B was broadly implementing the approach that would reasonably be expected 
for Mrs Es attitude to risk.
In the suitability report the asset allocation for Mrs E was set out as follows:
UK Equity  17%
Property  20%
Overseas Equity  31%
UK Fixed Interest  32%
Overall, I dont consider that to be an unreasonable asset allocation for a customer with a 
medium attitude to risk. However, providing an outline of an asset allocation alone doesnt, in 
my view, constitute an investment strategy.
The report then said, The recommended Investment Manager will analyse the results of 
your risk profile questionnaire and recommend a suitable portfolio for you.
In the section entitled Discretionary Fund Manager the report said that Mr M recommended 
Mrs E use B to access their model portfolio service. But Mr M then said:
In keeping with your medium attitude to risk assessmentI would suggest that you might 
wish to consider the [B] Strategic Income Model and the Total Return Model Low Medium 
Risk Portfolios. The Fact Sheets for these portfolios are enclosed with the report.
I dont think that this suggestion met the regulators requirement of advising on the 
investments and fully understanding the investment proposition to be held in the SIPP.
Despite Mr M confirming in the SIPP application form that the advice had taken account of 
the underlying investment strategy, he didnt make a recommendation. Instead, he left it to B to decide how to invest Mrs Es funds. And I cant see that Mr M did any investigation into 
the assets the suggested portfolios were invested in or that he engaged with B at all before 
making his recommendation to Mrs E to understand how her funds would be invested. It also 
doesnt appear that Mr M passed on Mrs Es attitude to risk assessment to B until April 2016, 
by which time all of the funds transferred at that time had been invested in a number of high-
risk corporate bonds. This approach continued to be taken when the remainder of Mrs Es 
funds were transferred to B.
Had Mr M engaged with B at the outset to understand the investments it was going to make 
on Mrs Es behalf, I think her losses couldve been avoided as MAFS wouldve identified that 
the investments werent suitable for her. Its possible that B wouldnt have been transparent 
with MAFS about how it intended to invest Mrs Es funds  but MAFS failed to carry out any 
of that research before it advised her to transfer, so I think this is a moot point.
Furthermore, as MAFS was providing an ongoing advised service to Mrs E, for which it was 
being paid ongoing fees, I think it should have been in a position to ensure that Mrs Es 
funds were invested appropriately. It is evident that there wasnt any oversight from Mr M in 
respect of the investment choices made, and I think it is this approach, along with the failings 
when the initial advice was given that led to Mrs Es losses with B. By failing to make a clear 
recommendation in line with Mrs Es attitude to risk, and by failing to communicate with B to 
make sure that the recommendations were implemented, I think B was essentially given a 
free hand to invest Mrs Es funds as it pleased.
DFM involvement
I appreciate MAFS argument that Bs actions may have also separately caused some of 
Mrs Es loss. So, I have considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility 
for compensating the loss to MAFS. In the circumstances, though, I think it fair to make an 
award for the whole loss against MAFS.
I think MAFS advised with complete disregard for Mrs Es interests (given the lack of steps it 
took to establish how the portfolio with B was invested and whether the investments B 
intended to make on her behalf were suitable for her). MAFS also continued to take fees 
from the investment that it should have been monitoring. So, anything that B might also have 
done wrong doesnt make it reasonable in the circumstances of this case for MAFS to avoid 
compensating Mrs E for the losses they may have gone on to cause. So, I think holding 
MAFS fully responsible for the whole of the Mrs Es loss represents fair compensation in this 
case.
FSCS Compensation
MAFS argues that the amount of any award made against MAFS should be limited by taking 
the payment Mrs E received from the FSCS in relation to the investments made by B into 
account. In ordinary circumstances, as the FSCS describes itself as a fund of last resort, it is 
my understanding that it is unlikely it will pay out on claims where it is aware that another 
firm was involved in the transaction, and where it considers there is a reasonable prospect of 
the consumer making a recovery against that firm for the loss suffered.
Nonetheless, whether to postpone payment of compensation (to enable the consumer to
recover compensation from a third party) is a matter entirely for the FSCS.
In this case, it seems the FSCS decided to award Mrs E £50,000 before the determination of 
her complaint with this service. In those circumstances, Im aware that as a condition of 
accepting compensation from the FSCS, Mrs E was asked to give to the FSCS an 
assignment of her rights to make a claim against third parties. This would have enabled the FSCS to make a claim in recovery of that compensation against those third parties and the 
PI insurer of B.
It follows that for Mrs E to make a complaint to this service about MAFS, she needed to ask 
the FSCS for a re-assignment of those rights. Mrs E obtained that reassignment earlier this 
year which contains, as a condition, the following requirement:
The Claimant agrees that in respect of the Reassigned Rights the proceeds of the claim 
shall first be applied to repay an amount equal to the Compensation Sum to FSCS together 
with interest on the Compensation Sum from the date of receipt of the proceeds by the 
Claimant to the date of payment by the Claimant to FSCS at a daily rate equivalent to the 
Bank of England base rate from time to time (subject to a minimum rate of 0.1%), such 
payment to be made to FSCS within 14 days of receipt. The payment to FSCS shall be 
made after the deduction from the proceeds of the Claimant's reasonable legal costs 
incurred in pursuing a claim in respect of the Reassigned Rights.
MAFS may argue that because Mrs E has already recovered £50,000 from the FSCS, it 
should not have to account to her for that portion of her loss. However, as per the 
reassignment of rights agreement Mrs E entered into with the FSCS, she has agreed to 
repay the compensation she received from the FSCS if she receives compensation from a 
third party relating to the same claim.
From this, I think that:
1. There is no real risk of Mrs E benefiting from double recovery, as shes contractually 
required to pay back to FSCS the full amount of the compensation it paid to her; and
2. I have seen nothing to suggest Mrs E is unlikely to comply with that requirement in 
accordance with the deed of reassignment;
3. If I didnt direct MAFS to pay compensation to Mrs E for the full amount of her loss (in 
circumstances where I have determined it is responsible for 100% of that loss), she 
would nonetheless still be required to account to FSCS from the compensation she 
receives from MAFS and would, in turn, be left out of pocket.
All in all, I maintain my view that the fair and reasonable outcome is for MAFS to pay Mrs E 
compensation for the full amount of her loss.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs E should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs E would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs E's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must MAFS do?
To compensate Mrs E fairly, MAFS must:
Compare the performance of Mrs E's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.MAFS should add interest as set out below.
MAFS should pay into Mrs E's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If MAFS is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs E's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs E wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs E's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Mrs E is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs E 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs E £300 for the trouble and upset caused to her because of the ongoing 
concerns over her pension funds.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MAFS deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs E how much has been taken off. MAFS should give Mrs E a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs E asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of 
my final 
decision8% simple per year 
from final decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
MAFS should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount MAFS pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.If MAFS is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. MAFS may require that Mrs E provides an 
undertaking to pay MAFS any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. MAFS will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
MAFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set 
out above how this might be achieved by MAFS taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mrs E can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If MAFS is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mrs E an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs E wanted income with growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs E's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay the balance.
Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs E in a 
clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited 
should pay Mrs E the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
(including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set 
out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited pays Mrs E the 
balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Martin Aitken 
Financial Services Limited. It is unlikely that Mrs E can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Mrs E may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
portfolio currently illiquid should be retained by Mrs E. This is until any future benefit that she 
may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Martin Aitken 
Financial Services Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as 
set out above.
Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited may request an undertaking from Mrs E that either 
she repays to Martin Aitken Financial Services Limited any amount Mrs E may receive from 
the portfolio thereafter or if possible, transfers the portfolio to MAFS at that point.
Mrs E should be aware that any such amount would be paid into her pension plan so she 
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman