DRN-3084157
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc did not help recover the money paid to a scam 
investment company. 
What happened
Mr T was contacted by a company called UFX.com who sold him an investment opportunity. 
He had no previous trading experience but was interested in earning an additional income. 
From December 2015 to June 2019 Mr T made payments totalling £130,943.83 from his 
current account with Santander and £29,530.51 from his credit card account - also with 
Santander. He received credits of £8,635.99 into his current account and £347.76 into his 
credit card account. The total loss he incurred is therefore £151,490.59. 
Mr T states he discovered the UFX platform didnt actually exist and he was scammed. He 
said he was initially permitted to withdraw money from his trading account but then UFX 
would later make excuses as to why he couldnt make withdrawals. 
Mr T feels Santander should repay this loss because it didnt do enough to assist him with 
processing chargeback claims or section 75 claims (in relation to his credit card account). He 
also feels it should have spotted the unusual nature of his payments and done more to 
prevent the fraud. 
Santander doesnt agree it should repay Mr Ts losses. It acknowledges it incorrectly advised 
that a chargeback claim wouldnt be an option for him when he initially asked for help in 
August 2019.  It later noted that some of the transactions Mr T complained about were in 
time for a chargeback claim to have been processed. It asked Mr T for additional information 
to see if a claim could have likely succeeded. When Santander didnt receive the specific 
information it required, it concluded a chargeback claim would not have succeeded but paid 
Mr T £100 compensation for initially providing incorrect information. 
One of our investigators initially upheld Mr Ts complaint but after reviewing further 
information didnt agree the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr T asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and it has therefore been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that a fraud 
warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice.  
 
So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular trader was a fraudster. 
 
were the disputed payments fraudulent? 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options or forex scam is in 
fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses.  
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. 
When considering this for Mr Ts case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent.   
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that UFX had no adverse information 
reported about them at the time Mr T authorised his payments. What I have noted was that 
they were registered with the FCA at the time of Mr Ts payments. Ive seen that Mr T 
suggested the company he was dealing with was not the genuine UFX but he has not 
provided any evidence of this. 
I have seen that the FCA cancelled UFXs registration on 11 June 2020 and explained after 
this date, UFX could no longer provide investment services to UK customers. But this 
information was not available at the time of Mr Ts disputed payments. 
I must therefore take into account that theres strong evidence here  particularly because 
there are no regulator warnings that were published at the material time that UFX hadnt 
been identified as a fraudulent company when these payments were made.  
Whats more, Ive also looked at other third-party evidence, to determine whether UFX may 
fairly and reasonably be regarded as fraudulently seeking gains at the expense of others. I 
have seen some negative reviews about UFX, including delays with processing withdrawal 
requests and customers losing money. But I cannot ignore that, while this could be seen as 
circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture of UFX  this is not in itself 
sufficient evidence of fraud. 
 
I must follow the evidence and, essentially, I have no credible evidence to persuade me with 
any degree of certainty that UFX was operating a scam and the evidence I have seen 
suggests that UFX were indeed regulated at the time it offered services to Mr T. So, taking 
everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that UFX was in fact a fraudulent 
company.  Having concluded that this was not a fraudulent company and was potentially a bad bargain 
or poor investment advice, I need to consider the following: 
 
1. Did Santander deal with Mr Ts chargeback or section 75 claims fairly? 
2. If so, were any of the disputed transactions still so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr 
T and/or his account that Santander fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered 
some sort of intervention? 
3. If triggered, would Santanders intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss? 
4. And if so, was Mr T partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately? 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Santander) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Having considered Visas rules, the possible chargeback reason codes did cover binary-
options/investment trading at the time of some of Mr Ts payments. Prior to 14 October 2017, 
Visa allowed for chargeback claims to be processed if the cardholder (Mr T) could provide 
written evidence from the merchant (UFX) guaranteeing an amount of profit/returns they 
were due to receive. Ive noted Mr T hasnt presented such evidence and therefore any 
transactions prior to this date would not have had any prospect of success if chargeback 
claims had been processed.
Visa expanded its rules to cover situations whereby binary options/investment traders 
prevented cardholders from withdrawing their available balances from 14 October 2017. 
However, Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) required Santander to present 
dated evidence that Mr T had an available balance (in the form of a screenshot or 
confirmation from the merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, 
his available balances on the same day. 
Mr T provided an email dated 18 April 2016 where he wrote the following to UFX:
If you can ensure $2000 is withdrawn into my visa account card ending 4812 by 
Friday (not my credit card!) - I requested a withdrawal last Friday so should be 
possible? Then I will trade the balance $5000+ if you return it to my trading account
Its important to note that Visas applicable reason code 13.5 only took effect on 
transactions on or after 14 October 2017. This email therefore did not meet Visas rule 
requirements at the time Mr T requested a chargeback claim in August 2019. Visa also has 
time limits up to a maximum of 540 days from the date of the transaction. Within this time 
limit, a claim would need to be made within 120 days of the date the cardholder expected to 
receive the service. In any event, Ive seen that Mr T received credits of just over £1,400 into 
his current account a couple of days after his withdrawal request. So it would appear this 
request was actioned.Ive noted Mr Ts concerns about the poor performance of his investment platform, along 
with the level of risk involved in his trades. But there were no options to pursue concerns of 
this nature through the chargeback scheme. And therefore, Im satisfied Mr T did not present 
the required evidence of the card scheme rules and so, chargeback wouldnt have been an 
option for him. Ive noted Santander paid £100 compensation to recognise providing 
incorrect information to Mr T about his chargeback options and I think this was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances. 
Section 75
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim 
for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against 
the supplier of goods or services. 
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr T into entering into an agreement. 
Mr T hasnt presented any evidence that would suggest UFX made promises that induced 
him into entering into an agreement with them. Nor that they breached any contract he had 
with them. 
Mr T provided an email exchange between him and UFX on 6 September 2016 where the 
UFX agent says Have a look at the next BIG move on the GOLD. 
To which Mr T replies: 
I am taking a break from trading for a while. Picking up a nice new Audi tomorrow to 
help soften the blow of my losses..When I return I will be looking to gain and not 
lose. Low risk and not high risk..The challenge will be for you to help me match 
those gains over the rest of the month. A fairly lightweight strategy but amounts 
should build up over time if we are careful. 
Its clear from Mr Ts email exchange that he suffered losses but continued to pay money 
onto his UFX platform. While he suggested he wanted high risk and not low risk, Ive not 
seen any evidence that UFX guaranteed this or made promises in respect of his credit card 
payments that were broken. It follows that I dont find Mr T has established a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract under section 75.
 
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Santander is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence 
duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published 
many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules 
and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr W for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 and 2017 (the Regulations), in force 
at the time. This is because they were made by Mr T using the legitimate security 
credentials provided to him by Santander. These must be regarded as authorised 
payments even though Mr T feels he was the victim of a scam. So, although he did not 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his account, Mr T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto 
counter various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing 
of  terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks and building societies are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mr T feels that his transaction on 28 December 2015 of £10,068.53 was unusual in relation 
to his normal day to day spending. I would agree and I am satisfied there were enough 
triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible regulated firm such as Santander that 
Mr Ts account was being subjected to unusual and uncharacteristic activity. There were 
reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and therefore justify an intervention (such 
as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions about the nature and purpose of the 
payment).
As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper 
entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victimsthat it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of 
types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed 
intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the 
regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect a large firm 
to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an 
alert being posted by the FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such alerts should automatically 
trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and 
a possible scam warning) to the payer.
But in Mr Ts case, in December 2015, there were no warnings from the FCA or IOSCO 
that indicated UFX were scammers. And rather the evidence does suggest they were 
registered with the FCA. If Santander had intervened and carried out further checks to 
ensure Mr T was not the victim of a scam, I would have expected it to direct Mr T to check 
the firm was registered with the FCA and carry out his own due diligence. 
Mr T has presented evidence that he carried out further checks prior to making his 
payment on 28 December 2015, including checking UFXs FCA registration status. Whilst 
the email chain provided by Mr T suggested he couldnt locate UFXs registration status, 
the agent for UFX advised they were registered with the FCA. Ive also noted that the firm 
name, parent company name and the firms FCA reference number contained on the 
emails provided by Mr T match the details held on the FCAs website. The payments on Mr 
Ts bank statements were also sent to UFX. Theres no indication that Mr T was not 
dealing with the legitimate UFX despite his suggestion that he was tricked into believing he 
was. 
Its clear Mr T carried out his own due diligence checks and satisfied himself of UFXs 
registration status prior to sending further large payments to them. It would be expecting 
too much of Santander to play amateur detective and carry out extensive checks into the 
individual history of a merchant who on the face of it, appeared to have the required 
regulation to offer the services they provided Mr T with. And Im not persuaded any warning given by Santander at the time of his payment on 28 December 2015, would have led to Mr 
T doing anything differently. Not least because he went on to have a relationship with UFX 
over several years despite losing significant sums of money with them. 
In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from Santander in December 2015 probably 
would have made no difference to Mr T. Any failings by Santander were not the dominant, 
effective cause of his losses; they were just part of the background history or occasion that 
led up to them. 
In light of my conclusions above on causation, it is unnecessary for me to go on to consider 
whether Mr B was himself partly to blame for what happened (contributory negligence). 
Indeed, I have already concluded that he was responsible for his own investment or 
gambling decisions, and that such choices were the proximate cause of his losses. 
 
UFX is now a trading name of Reliantco Investments and have been since 2018. They are 
regulated by Cyprus Securities Exchange Commission (CySEC) and they held passporting 
rights through the FCA (which meant they could offer services to UK customers) until June 
2020 when the FCA cancelled their rights. The FCA published a notice about UFX advising 
the following:
UK consumers who are not satisfied with any aspect of the handling of their trading 
accounts should first complain to the firm directly.
The firm must acknowledge receipt of your complaint within five days and then 
provide a material response within two months, telling you whether the complaint has 
been successfully resolved or why they need more time to look in to it (up to a 
maximum of three months from the day of complaint).
If you are not happy with the firms response, or they fail to respond, you can ask the 
Cyprus Financial Ombudsman to consider your complaint.
It follows that Mr T may have the option of pursuing his complaint about UFX directly with 
them (Ive noted their website is still in operation) and CySEC if he hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Santander UK Plc acted unfairly or 
unreasonably with regard to Mr Ts disputed transactions to UFX, so I am unable to uphold 
this complaint or make any award against the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman