DRN-4104926
The complaint
Mr I complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) responded when he 
asked it to help him obtain a refund for goods he paid for using his NatWest credit card.
What happened
Mr I bought airline tickets on behalf of his friend from a retailer Ill call T. After he bought the 
tickets Mr I called the airlines just to double check if the tickets were actually booked and if 
they were valid. Whilst speaking to the customer service team for both departments they had 
bought to my attention that the ticket numbers were invalid, and the names as well were not 
coming up on the system. Both airlines had said the same thing and explained that these 
tickets were not genuine and that this could be a scam. 
Distressed Mr I contacted NatWest for help to obtain a refund. Mr I thinks T breached its 
contract with him and therefore he can ask NatWest to remedy this breach. Mr I relied on the 
rights he believes he has against NatWest for breach of contract, under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
NatWest looked into Mr Is complaint. It concluded that it had no liability to Mr I under 
Section 75. It came to this conclusion on the basis that Section 75 only applies if certain 
conditions are met. One of these conditions is that there must be a very particular type of 
agreement in place known as a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. In particular under this 
agreement Mr I must be the debtor, NatWest the creditor and T the supplier. However, 
NatWest did not agree that any such agreement was in place, this was because:
In this case, as your credit card was used to purchase tickets on behalf of your friend this 
breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain, so liability under Section 75 does not exist on the 
purchase.
Moreover, in any event NatWest did not agree that there was enough evidence to 
demonstrate that most likely T had breached the contract.
NatWest declined to uphold Mr Is complaint.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response Mr I complained to our service.
Once Mr Is complaint was with us he raised new matters, he told us NatWest had not made 
it clear that he would need to continue to make repayments to his credit card whilst this 
matter was in dispute. Further, he says he is now experiencing financial difficulty due to 
having to make these repayments.
NatWest responded to say it sympathised with what Mr I is saying but it did not agree it had 
done anything wrong, in asking Mr I to continue with his contractual repayments. It indicated 
if Mr I is now having money troubles he could contact its financial difficulties team who might 
be able to offer assistance to him.
Mr I also let us know that hed paid for the tickets for his friend because at the time the friend 
did not have money to pay for the tickets. But hed agreed with his friend that at a later date 
the friend would pay him back. Mr I explained that the reason why hed checked with the 
airlines was because there were scams going on in general and he had wanted reassurance 
that hed not fallen prey to a scam.
One our investigators looked at what had happened. She did not recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
NatWest accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr I did not. Mr I repeated his 
previous stance and asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant regulations, 
law, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Here relevant 
regulations and law includes but are not limited to Section 75 and the relevant rules about 
chargeback. Ill look at each in turn.
Section 75
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr I has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring a like claim against NatWest provided certain 
conditions are met. One of these conditions is that there must be a very particular type of 
agreement in place known as a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. In this agreement Mr I 
must be the debtor, NatWest the creditor and T the supplier.
However in this instance I think no such agreement exists. I say this because I think the 
contract for airline tickets was made between Mr Is friend and T. Mr I was not travelling, the 
tickets were in his friends name, it appears that T has been told to send the tickets to Mr Is 
friends email address. Therefore all I think Mr I was doing was discharging his friends 
obligation to pay T he was not contracting directly with T. Mr I was then going to be paid 
back by his friend once the friend returned from the trip. It follows since there is no valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement here, it is not fair or reasonable to say NatWest has to 
put things right when I take into account the operation of Section 75.
Even if I thought there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement here, which I dont, Id 
still say I had no proper basis to uphold this part of Mr Is complaint. This is because he has 
not demonstrated as he would need to do, that there was a breach of contract.
He has not told us he checked with the airlines because he had heard of a scam specifically 
involving T selling fake airline tickets. Rather he indicates he was worried about airline ticket 
scams in general. So Ive seen nothing that suggests it was more likely than not that T was a 
scammer. Moreover, Ive seen information to show that T most likely did provide the tickets 
(that is the booking confirmation from T). I acknowledge that Mr I says the airlines told him 
the tickets did not exist, but he has nothing to back this up, such as information directly from 
the airlines. For example an email trail or some other written form of communication between 
Mr I and the airlines. And it is not clear to me why Mr I might not have been able to get this or a recording of his phone calls with the airlines.  Neither have a I seen any written 
communications between Mr I and T where he demands his money back from T.  The 
minute he found out the tickets were invalid I might have expected him to be straight on to T. 
As it stands, for all of these individual reasons, on balance I just do not have enough here to 
find that the tickets were not valid and therefore there was a breach of contract. It follows I 
have no proper basis for saying that NatWest must refund Mr I for this reason also.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process which in some very specific circumstances allows customers to ask 
for a transaction to be reversed if there is a problem with goods or services that they have 
paid for using a credit card. Chargebacks are dealt with under the relevant card scheme 
rules There is no automatic right to a chargeback. But we consider it is good practice for a 
financial business to consider carrying out a chargeback if its customer asked it to do this 
provided that there is fair chance the chargeback will be successful.
If I am to order NatWest to refund all or part of the cost of the goods, I must be satisfied that 
it acted incorrectly when I take account of the chargeback regulations. 
This is an instance where I dont think it would have been appropriate to proceed with a 
chargeback. Firstly because Mr I would have had to have asked T to sort this out first and it 
appears he did not. Secondly, because I cant see on what basis Mr I could have made a 
claim. I say this because a chargeback can only be successful if there is a valid chargeback 
reason code, as defined under the card scheme rules. And since Mr I has not got sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate T breached its contract by selling invalid tickets there would be no 
reason code that would cover this situation.
It follows I have no proper basis for saying NatWest acted incorrectly when I take account of 
the chargeback regulations. I therefore do not uphold this part of Mr Is complaint.
Financial difficulties
Where a consumer is in financial difficulties a bank is obliged to act with forbearance and 
due consideration. Mr I has told us he is experiencing financial difficulties. I realise he is 
struggling but Ive no fair and reasonable basis for saying that NatWest is not entitled to 
insist on collecting Mr I contractual repayments. Moreover, NatWest has already offered Mr I 
help in that it has told him he can contact its financial difficulties team. Therefore I think 
NatWest has acted appropriately.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman