DRN-3268484
The complaint
Ms M complains that MBNA Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit card and 
went on to increase the credit limit. 
What happened
Ms M applied for a credit card with MBNA in 2018. Ms M said she had an income of around 
£15,000 a year. MBNA carried out a credit search and found Ms M owed around £15,750 to 
other unsecured lenders. MBNA says it carried out a credit search and didnt find any 
evidence of financial difficulties. MBNA went on to approve Ms Ms application and issued a 
credit card with a limit of £1,200. 
In November 2019 MBNA increased the credit limit to £5,000. MBNA says it looked at Ms 
Ms account history and credit file before deciding to increase the credit limit. MBNA has told 
us the increased credit limit was in line with its lending criteria. 
Last year, Ms M complained that MBNA had lent irresponsibly. MBNA issued a final 
response but didnt agree and said it had lent in line with its criteria. An investigator at this 
service looked at Ms Ms complaint. They thought MBNA had carried out proportionate 
checks before deciding to lend and didnt agree it had acted irresponsibly. Ms M asked to 
appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say MBNA had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Ms M could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
MBNA says Ms Ms application was approved in line with its lending criteria after reviewing 
the information she provided and looking at her credit file. MBNA has sent us evidence of the 
checks it completed. I can see it found how much Ms M owed to other lenders and factored 
that into its assessment. MBNA has confirmed it uses tools and statistics from the credit 
reference agencies in assessing applicants financial circumstances. In addition, Ms M gave 
details of how much shes paid and how her income is derived. 
MBNA says the application was approved in line with its lending criteria with a credit limit of 
£1,200. Im satisfied MBNAs checks were proportionate and in line with the rules it operates 
under. 
MBNA increased the credit limit to £5,000. Again, MBNA says it looked at Ms Ms credit file 
and took information from her application into account. In addition, Ms M had held the credit 
card for around 18 months at the point MBNA increased the credit limit. Ive reviewed Ms Ms 
credit card statements and can see the account was run within the agreed limits without 
signs she was experiencing financial difficulties. MBNA has also provided evidence from its 
systems that shows Ms M had no adverse information like arrears, defaults or judgements at 
the time it increased her credit limit. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M, but Im satisfied the checks MBNA completed were reasonable 
and proportionate to the credit card borrowing it offered. I havent found that MBNA lent 
irresponsibly or that it treated Ms M unfairly. As Im satisfied MBNA dealt with Ms Ms 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman