DRN-4126709
Complaint
Ms H has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Ms H bought a solar panel system (the system) for her home in 2016. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions 
of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Ms H alleges that the supplier 
misled Ms H into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Ms Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were likely mis-represented to Ms H and recommended Ikano offer redress to 
compensate Ms H. Ikano disagreed. It pointed out that the documents from the time of sale 
indicated that the system would not be self-funding. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
In my provisional decision of 20 April 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Ikano didnt make any further comments. Ms H (through 
her representative) did reply and Ill address those submissions below. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
As Ms H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Ms H could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms H and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, Ms H relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Ms H was provided with the sales documents, as her representative sent us 
copies. And it seems likely that she wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as she has 
signed the documents.
I appreciate that these documents appear to have been signed over several days, so the 
sale appears to have been conducted over multiple meetings. But as Ms H has signed each 
document, I think they are still reliable evidence of the information she was given. 
The initial sales meeting appears to have been conducted on the 31st October 2016  which 
is when the contract for the sale of the solar pales and the first estimated returns document 
were signed by Ms H. 
The contract for the sale of the system sets out only the cash price of the system which was 
£8,999. Although the finance charges are not contained in this document, in the section 
setting out the method of repayment  the term finance has been circled. This to me 
indicates that Ms H was aware that she was taking out finance to fund the purchase of the 
system, and I dont think its likely she would have agreed to take out finance for almost 
£9,000 without knowing some basic details of the loan such as the term of the loan. I think 
Its highly unlikely she agreed to the purchase without knowing at least the cash price of the 
system. 
The estimated returns document from the 31 October 2016  shows the total first year 
benefit of £325.70
This figure is not hidden away in small print, but is, in my view clearly visible. And Ms H has 
signed beneath this section  So, I think she wouldve, at the very least, seen this when she 
signed the document. 
So it seems to me that when Ms H signed the contract and agreed to the purchase, at the 
very least she was aware of her first year benefit, the cash price of the loan, and that shed 
be taking out finance. I also think its more likely she knew shed be taking out a 10 year loan 
to fund the purchase of the system, as I dont think its likely shed have agreed to take 
finance of such a significant amount without knowing some basic details of the loan. 
As explained above, Ms H took out a 10-year loan to fund the purchase of the system, and I 
think its apparent that in order to repay this loan, she would need at least £899.90 per year 
to cover the costs of the system. And the year one benefit is significantly less than that. So 
even without the finance charges being set out on the written documents on the 31st 
October 2016 it seems apparent that the benefits produced by the system would be 
significantly less than the annual cost of the loan. I therefore think it would have been clear 
to Ms H that the solar panels would not be self-funding in the way she says she was told 
they would be. Even without any of the post-installation documents, I think its more likely 
that it was clear that the system wasnt self-funding. 
The system was subsequently installed and Ms H then signed both a satisfaction note, and 
her credit agreement setting out the full costs of the system, including the total amount 
payable of £11,879.39 and the monthly payments of £99 over a 10-year period. And again I 
think its apparent, that 12 payments of £99 are more than £325.70 without the need to do 
any complex calculations. 
I appreciate that these documents were signed after the sale and installation  but the 
original estimated returns and the contract for the sale mentioning finance would be used 
were signed before the sale. So I think its more likely that Ms H was given all the information 
she needed before she agreed to the purchase, albeit she mightve signed the documents 
over several meetings. If she had been led to believe that the system would produce 
significantly more benefits, or that the costs of the system were significantly higher than 
expected, then I would have expected her to have questioned this at the time, rather than 
signing the documents. 
I would add that I understand the supplier gave Ms H another estimated returns document 
on 14 November 2016 after the system had been installed. This set out the first-year benefit 
as £294.15. I can see the estimated returns figures are almost exactly the same on both 
documents other than the estimated energy savings which are only around £32 less in the 
post installation document. This is due the electricity unit rate being lower than the original 
estimated returns.
From my experience of these types of cases, sometimes on review of consumers 
documents, the supplier would revise the estimates based on the consumers actual bills and 
unit rates being charged at the time, rather than the average rate used from the time of sale. 
Whilst I cannot say for certain why the supplier changed the rate used, on either document, 
the system benefit is significantly less than the annual cost of the loan. Both of these 
documents were signed by Ms H  and again, if shed thought shed receive far more than 
this (which would be needed to cover the costs of the loan), Im not sure why she signed this 
document rather than challenge what shed been told. But even if we dont rely on this 
document, her estimated benefit is still only around the £325  which was given to her on the 
first day of sale. 
So, I think its more likely that the sales representative discussed the cost, including the 
finance as well as the benefits Ms H could expect to achieve on the day of the sale, albeit 
she signed the documents over several meetings. 
Overall, I think its apparent (without doing any calculations) that the benefit amount of 
around £300, is significantly less than the annual cost of the loan (with or without the finance 
charges). I also think that its clear that 12 payments of £99 is more than her annual benefit 
amount of around £300. And I think its more likely that the system was sold on this basis. 
The fact that she did not challenge these figures at any point during the sale, indicates to me 
that they did not contradict her understanding from the time of sale. 
As explained above, I therefore think the sales documents likely reflect the nature of the 
discussions Ms H would have had with the supplier. While I think the supplier could have 
ensured all the documents were signed on the first day of sale before installing the system, I 
still think these documents are reliable evidence of the information she was given. Overall I 
dont think its likely that the supplier sold the system on the basis that it would be self-
funding, when the facts and figures presented to Ms H on documents shes signed, clearly 
display a significant shortfall between both the total cost, the cash price and the expected 
year one benefit. 
While Ive carefully considered Ms Hs testimony, I find the documents from around the time 
of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Considering that I havent 
found any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair 
relationship under section 140.
So overall, Im satisfied that Ikano did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining the 
claim.
Ms H (through her representative) made the following points: 
Ms H was extremely disappointed with my findings.
She reiterated that she was verbally told the system would be self-funding. 
The representative has also pointed out that there are general sales literature 
available from this supplier suggesting that the solar panel systems wouldnt be sold 
to consumers unless they benefit consumers, suggesting a quick payback time and 
comparing solar panels to other investments setting out the returns consumers could 
expect.  
Firstly, I am sorry Ms H is disappointed with my findings, and I appreciate this wasnt the 
outcome she was hoping for. But despite reviewing this complaint again in its entirety, Im 
afraid my view remains unchanged. 
While I have carefully reviewed the representatives submissions, I am satisfied that the 
specific sale documents related to Ms Hs sale, setting out the benefits and costs of her 
system, on documents she has signed are reliable evidence. And I think its likely, that the 
documents related to her particular sale, more accurately reflects the nature of the 
discussions she had with the seller rather than general sales literature of the supplier. And 
as Ive explained previously, the documents make it very apparent that the system will not be 
self-funding in the way Ms H says she was told they would be. 
Overall, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional 
decision. So, I still think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint and I dont think Ikano 
acted unreasonably or unfairly when declining the claim. With this in mind, I dont uphold this 
complaint. My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman