DRN-1731924
 
The complaint
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr H1 and Mr H2 bought a PPI policy when they took out a Halifax mortgage in 2001. 
The policy was sold in a meeting at a Halifax branch. It was part of a wider insurance 
package called a Total Mortgage Protection Policy (TMPP). The PPI element of this package 
gave Mr H1 cover for accident, sickness and unemployment for up to twenty-four months.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr H1 and Mr H2 complaint should be upheld. Mr H1 and Mr H2 
disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 say that, at the time, they werent aware that theyd been sold PPI with 
their mortgage and didnt knowingly agree to take it. But I need to bear in mind that this all 
took place almost twenty years ago and memories of such things do tend to fade over time. 
So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that the PPI policy was wrongly added to 
their mortgage account without their knowledge or consent, based only on what 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 recall now.
BoS has provided a copy of an extract from the mortgage application form which 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 completed and signed at the time of this sale. Theres a section on the 
form headed Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) And I can see that Mr H1 and Mr H2 
have both signed below the printed statement: Yes, we would like to take advantage of the 
TMPP. The way this section is worded seems to me to make it clear that the PPI was 
optional and a separate product from the mortgage itself. Mr H1 and Mr H2 have said that 
they dont think the form made it clear what they were signing for. But I dont think this is the 
case. Having looked carefully at the form, I think it should have been clear to them that they 
were signing to confirm they wanted TMPP cover on their mortgage.
BoS has also provided copies of screen shots from their computer system which record the 
answers that Mr H1 gave to questions he was asked at the time about his personal 
circumstances. These were to check eligibility and suitability for the TMPP. And from what 
we know more generally about the sales process BoS used at around the time of this sale, it was its normal practice to discuss PPI cover with a customer and to then obtain their explicit 
consent to the policy being set up for them.
So, based on all the information now available to me, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 were aware at the time that the PPI was optional and that they actively 
decided to take out this cover. But I can understand why they might not be able to recall this 
now.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr H1 and Mr H2. And from what Ive seen, I think 
thats most likely to have been the case. This means that it had to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for them. I dont know all the steps it took to do this. But from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
 
Mr H1 appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
limitations and exclusions.
 
Mr H1 says the cover provided by the policy wasnt needed. He says he was eligible 
for sick pay and redundancy compensation and had some savings he could have 
used to make the mortgage repayments if he couldnt work. He also says he could 
have relied on his partner to help in need. But this policy would have paid out in 
addition to these other means. It could have covered his mortgage repayments for up 
to twenty-four months if he was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment. So I still think that 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 would have valued the extra security that the policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable. And as the policy premium was 
paid monthly, Mr H1 and Mr H2 could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met 
their needs. 
 
BoS also needed to give Mr H1 and Mr H2 enough information for them to decide whether or 
not to take out the policy. I think its quite possible that the information they received could 
have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for them, I dont think better information would have changed their minds about 
buying it. I think theyd still have thought the policy gave them useful protection at an 
affordable price.
So, from what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr H1 and Mr H2 have lost out by anything that 
BoS may have done wrong when it sold them this policy.
Ive thought about the reasons which Mr H1 and Mr H2 have given for still thinking that the 
PPI policy was mis-sold to them, but this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding their 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.Simon Furse
Ombudsman