DRN-1608041
 
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with how Capital One (Europe) Plc administered her account when she 
was in financial difficulties. 
What happened
Miss H was going through a period of financial difficulties and went into arrears on her 
Capital One credit card. In November 2018 she agreed a payment arrangement of £32 a 
month with Capital One, with all interest being suspended. But Miss H regularly paid more 
than the agreed payment and, despite missing payment in February 2019, shed cleared the 
arrears by March 2019. Because of this Capital One took her off the payment arrangement. 
Miss H started to use her card again, and Capital One started to charge interest again. But 
Miss was still having financial difficulties, and in August 2019 she offered to pay a reduced 
lump sum payment to clear her account in full. But Capital One didnt accept this offer.
Miss H has complained that Capital One started charging her interest during the agreed 
payment arrangement, because she missed a payment. Shes also unhappy they wouldnt 
accept the partial payment in full settlement of her account.
Our investigator found that Capital One had acted reasonably. He felt that, when Miss H told 
them of her financial difficulties, they arranged a payment plan that was affordable based on 
her circumstances. But he felt that, because Miss H had cleared the arrears, Capital One 
acted reasonably in stopping the payment plan and charging interest.
He also said Capital One didnt have to accept a partial settlement. And because Capital 
One had assessed the request and the supporting evidence Miss H provided before making 
their decision, he didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Miss H didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said she was paying more than the agreed 
amount to try and reduce the arrears as soon as possible. She doesnt think being penalised 
£300 interest for missing one payment is fair, especially when she didnt know this had been 
missed - shes said she doesnt always get her post. And she doesnt think Capital One have 
fully considered her situation when assessing her financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence, while I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss H, I agree with the investigators 
findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. And if I havent commented on any 
specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H contacted Capital One in November 2018 to discuss her financial difficulties and a 
payment arrangement of £32 a month was set up  this was what Miss H agreed she could afford to pay at the time. Capital One wrote to Miss H on 21 November to confirm the terms 
of the payment arrangement.
Ive seen Miss H paid Capital One £93.70 in December 2018 and £44.79 in January 2019. 
The payment due on 20 February wasnt made. Capital One wrote to Miss H on 1 March and 
16 March to let her know about the missed payment. These letters said failure to make the 
payment may result in interest and charges being added to your account. But Miss H paid 
£46.96 on 15 March, which cleared the arrears and brought the account up to date. This 
payment wouldve crossed with 16 March letter. 
Because Miss H had brought her account up to date, Capital One cancelled the payment 
arrangement. They wrote to her on 2 April to let her know you can now start to use your 
Capital Once credit card and interest and charges will be applied to your account in 
accordance with your terms and conditions. Ive seen that between 11 April and 21 June 
Miss H made purchases using the card.
Payment arrangements are designed to help customers who are in arrears and cant afford 
to make the minimum payments. Theyre not designed to stop interest being charged when 
the minimum payments can be maintained, when the account is up to date, and when the 
customer is using the card for ongoing purchases.
So, while I appreciate that Miss H was keen to clear the arrears as soon as possible, I dont 
think Capital One did anything wrong by stopping the payment arrangement once Miss H 
had brought her account up to date. Miss H has said she doesnt always get her post, and 
she didnt receive the March 2019 letters telling her the February payment had been missed. 
While I dont doubt this was the case, I dont think this had had any impact  Miss H brought 
her account up to date in 15 March, and she hasnt been charged any interest because the 
February payment was missed.
Capital One started charging interest because Miss H had cleared the arrears and the 
payment arrangement came to an end earlier than originally expected. I think this was 
reasonable. And they wrote to Miss H to tell her they were now charging interest and she 
could use her card again. As Miss H started using her card shortly afterwards, its 
reasonable for me to conclude that she received this letter. So she wouldve known that 
interest was being charged again, and why.
Miss H went back into financial difficulties and, in August 2019, she offered to pay £1,694 in 
partial settlement of the £2,259 outstanding debt. After considering the additional information 
provided by Miss H, Capital One rejected the offer. They said they didnt think it was the right 
solution for Miss H at the time, but they said they would keep her account on hold, so no 
further interest would be charged.
Capital One have processes in place about when they will and wont accept a partial 
settlement offer. Its not my role to tell Capital One what these processes should be; this is 
something between them and their regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. But I havent 
seen anything to show me that Capital One unfairly applied their process when they 
considered Miss Hs partial settlement offer. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2020.Andrew Burford
Ombudsman