DRN-3418830
The complaint
Mr and Ms B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid their travel insurance 
claim and about its service. My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Ms B had a travel insurance policy insured by Great Lakes dated 4 February 2020. 
Theyd booked a holiday abroad from 17 to 29 February 2020. On 16 February 2020 they 
cancelled their holiday as on 14 February Ms Bs mothers health deteriorated, unfortunately 
shed been diagnosed with cancer in 2019. Mr and Ms B claimed on the policy for their 
cancellation costs.
Great Lakes initially declined the claim but in response to Mr and Ms Bs complaint it said it 
would reconsider the claim if Mr and Ms B provided the following information:
Confirmation from Ms Bs mothers GP that on 4 February 2020 there was no reason 
for Mr and Ms B to know her mothers health would have deteriorated so that 
cancellation of the holiday would be necessary. And if there was no reason the GP 
should explain why. Great Lakes said the policy was purchased on the same day 
Ms Bs mothers radiotherapy was completed and they wouldnt have been known at 
that time if the treatment had been successful.
What prompted Mr and Ms B to purchase the policy on 4 February 2020 and whether 
they had any previous policy which covered them.
The original booking invoice for the holiday to confirm the date the trip was booked.
Mr and Ms B complained to us. They said Great Lakes already had the information it asked 
for, it should have known theyd had the same policy for at least 5 years which had renewed 
automatically and Great Lakes had unfairly applied the policy terms. They want Great Lakes 
to pay the claim and compensation for their inconvenience due to its delay.
Our investigator said Great Lakes should pay the claim subject to the remaining policy terms 
and conditions plus interest. 
Great Lakes disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
The policy says under the cancellation section that Great Lakes will pay for specified non-
refundable lost costs up to the policy limit if Mr and Mrs B have to cancel a trip if:
you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have 
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness
The policy excludes:
any claim arising directly or indirectly from a known pre-existing medical 
condition....
The policy defines pre-existing medical condition as:
any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms, or for which 
any form of treatment, or prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation, 
or follow-up/check-up, has been required, or received, during the 2 years prior to the 
commencement of cover under this policy and/or prior to any trip.
The GPs medical certificate says the reason for the trip cancellation was Ms Bs mothers 
illness, abdominal pains of recent onset which related to her cancer that had been 
diagnosed in November 2019. Ms Bs mother had been on waiting list for surgery and had 
radiotherapy which finished on 4 February 2020, which was the date of the policy. So I think 
Great Lakes fairly said Ms Bs mother had a pre-existing condition, which is excluded from 
cover.
However, the policy also states theres an Important limitation which Great Lakes referred 
to in its correspondence with Mr and Ms B. It says:
For anyone your trip depends on  Cancellation & Cutting Short Your Trip
Cover is extended to claims relating to pre-existing medical conditions if the persons 
medical practitioner is able to confirm that at the time you bought the policy or 
booked the trip (whichever is later), there would not have been any substantial 
likelihood of the condition deteriorating so that cancellation or cutting short your trip 
would become necessary. If the medical practitioner cannot confirm this in writing, 
your claim will not be covered.
The information Great Lakes wants is in line with the policy. But Ive considered whether its 
request for further information is fair and reasonable given the evidence Mr and Ms B have 
already provided, and I dont think it is. Ill explain why. 
Great Lakes has particular concerns about the timing of what it said was Mr and Ms Bs 
purchase of the policy being the same date that Ms Bs mother ended her radiotherapy. But 
Mr and Ms B told Great Lakes theyd had the policy for several years and it had 
automatically renewed on 4 February 2020. Great Lakes hasnt disputed what Mr and Ms B 
said so its reasonable for me to think what they said about the policy renewal is correct. So 
I think Great Lakes concerns about the timing of the end of treatment and start of the policy 
are unfounded.There is a holiday booking form from the holiday provider dated 7 February 2020 and an 
ATOL certificate of the same date. I think thats sufficient evidence the holiday was booked 
on 7 February 2020. I think its unlikely that Mr and Ms B would have booked a holiday then 
if theyd known it was likely Ms Bs mothers health would deteriorate.
Ms B says after her mother had finished the radiotherapy she had some pain but on 
14 February 2020 she was in intense pain and admitted to hospital. She was discharged 
but the pain relief wasnt working and Ms B needed to put pressure on the GP and the 
hospital to improve her mothers pain relief, which Ms B says was unforeseeable.
I think the evidence from the GP supports that Ms B mother deterioration was unexpected. 
The medical certificate says the pain was a recent onset and the GPs letter of 10 March 
2021 say Ms Bs mother suddenly became very poorly. The GPs answers to question 12 
on the medical certificate is evidence that Mr and Ms B couldnt have foreseen or expected 
her mothers medical condition would have caused the trip cancellation when they renewed 
the policy or booked the holiday.
The information Great Lakes asked Mr and Ms B to provide is worded differently to the 
questions on the form the GP completed. But fundamentally Great Lakes has asked Mr and 
Ms B  for evidence as to whether it was foreseeable that Ms Bs mothers medical condition 
would cause the trip to be cancelled. The GP has already said it wasnt foreseeable. 
Overall, I find that Great Lakes already had enough information to decide the claim was 
covered. I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Great Lakes to pay the claim in line with 
the remaining policy terms and conditions, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
Mr and Ms B are also unhappy with Great Lakes delay in handling the claim. They made the 
claim in February 2020 and Great Lakes gave its claim decision in June 2020, having waited 
for necessary medical evidence. Mr and Ms B complained in August 2020 and Great Lakes 
sent it final response letter in November 2020, having told Mr and Ms B it wouldnt be able to 
respond in the 8 weeks required by the insurance regulators rules. 
l dont think Great Lakes took an unreasonable period of time to assess the claim and 
respond to Ms Bs correspondence particularly given the Covid-19 situation at the time. 
Great Lakes correspondence says the Covid-19 situation may cause delays in its 
responses. I appreciate that wasnt ideal for Mr and Ms B but Great Lakes wasnt 
responsible for the situation. Mr and Ms B werent disadvantaged in that Great Lakes was 
clear they could complain to us as it couldnt respond in the 8 weeks. I make no 
compensation award for any inconvenience Mr and Ms B may have had due to the delay but 
I have added interest to the claim settlement to reflect theyve had to wait for their 
settlement.
Putting things right
Great Lakes must pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions, plus 
interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr and Ms Bs claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms and conditions, plus interest* at 8% simple a year from 
the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Ms B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Ms B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman