DRN-3294011
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complained that Pen Underwriting Limited (Pen) declined a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L contacted Pen to make a claim when a garden wall was damaged. Pen 
assessed the claim and declined it because it said there wasnt any evidence to show the 
damage was caused by an insured event.
When Mr L and Mrs L complained, they said the damage was caused by a vehicle hitting the 
wall. When Pen replied it said there was no evidence of an insured event and there wasnt 
evidence to show a vehicle had come into contact with the wall. It had also offered to carry 
out a further survey, but Mr L and Mrs L had already completed the work to deal with the 
damage, so there was no purpose in a surveyor visiting. However, Pen said there were 
issues with how the claim had been dealt with, including delays. It offered £100 
compensation.
So, Mr L and Mrs L complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said Pen had dealt with the claim reasonably and there wasnt evidence to support that 
the wall was damaged by an insured event.
As Mr L and Mrs L didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
For a claim to be accepted, it needs to have been caused by something covered by the 
policy, known as an insured event. If there isnt an insured event, the insurer doesnt need 
to deal with the claim. Its also for a policyholder, rather than the insurer, to show a claim has 
been caused by an insured event. But insurers usually investigate this on a policyholders 
behalf. Part of a property being damaged, in this instance a garden wall, isnt in itself enough 
to mean that a claim should be dealt with, it needs to be shown that the damage was caused 
by an event listed in the policy.
Mr L and Mrs L have said they think a vehicle must have hit the wall. Ive looked at the policy 
and it does provide cover for vehicles striking the property. So, Ive looked at what evidence 
there was to support that a vehicle hit the wall.
Mr L and Mrs L provided an assessment from a builder they asked to look at the wall shortly 
after the damage was found. This said:
The wall has buckled in the middle and it is my professional opinion that it has been 
impacted by a vehicle as there is no other explanation for the damage caused.
Mr L and Mrs L also obtained a quote for the repair. By this point the wall had been made 
safe. The quote said:
Wall has been bumped by large vehicle which has brought down top section and remaining 
section now loose and dislodged from foundation and unsafe.
Pen also sent a surveyor to look at the wall. The surveyor found damage to the wall, but 
didnt find any damage to indicate a car or van had ran right along the wall causing the 
bricks to loosen.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the wall was damaged. However, I havent seen any 
evidence to support that the damage was more likely caused by a vehicle coming into 
contact with the wall. Im aware that Mr L and Mrs L have said they havent suggested a 
vehicle scraped along the wall, which might have then left paint marks. They think a vehicle 
could have reversed into the wall, possibly with the driver not even being aware of coming 
into contact with it or that a vehicles load might have come into contact with the wall. But Im 
mindful that Mr L and Mrs Ls builder thought the damage was caused by a vehicle in the 
absence of any other explanation, rather than because any evidence was found to actively 
support that view. The quote Mr L and Mrs L provided said the wall had been bumped by a 
large vehicle, but didnt provide evidence to show why this was the likely cause of the 
damage.
Pens surveyor also didnt find any evidence that a vehicle had come into contact with the 
wall. Ive also looked at the surveyors photos, which showed that the wall was along one 
side of a lane with a fairly sizeable grass verge between the lane track and the wall. So, I 
think this would have reduced the likelihood that a vehicle would have come into contact with 
the wall while being driven along it, although Im aware Mr L and Mrs L said there had been 
a higher level of traffic in the lane around the time of the claim due to building work taking 
place at another property.
Mr L and Mrs L also said a caravan could have been reversed into the wall while it was 
being moved. Although this is a possibility, I havent seen anything to show that this more 
likely than not did happen or that if a caravan had come into contact with the wall, it would 
have caused this type of damage. Ive also looked at the photos and cant see anything to 
show how the damage happened to the wall, whether because of a vehicle or for some other 
reason. Mr L and Mrs L also said the police investigated, but didnt find anything to show 
what happened.
Pen also offered to send another surveyor. Im aware there were some delays in arranging 
the surveyor and by the time a surveyor tried to arrange a visit, the wall had been removed 
and replaced with a fence. So, there was no longer anything for the surveyor to inspect to 
see if a cause for the damage could be identified.
Ive also thought about how Pen dealt with the claim, I can see there were delays during the 
claim, including issues with appointing a second surveyor. I think the compensation Pen 
offered was reasonable based on what happened.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont think there was sufficient evidence to show the 
damage was the result of an insured event, including that a vehicle had come into contact 
with the wall. As a result, I think it was reasonable for Pen to decline the claim and I dont 
require it to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman