DRN-3577352
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) set up the Save the Change service on 
his account without his knowledge and that payments have been made to a third party for an 
extended period of time. 
What happened
Mr W discovered that a Save the Change service had been set up on his account. The Save 
the Change service was set up in 2010 when the account was in the joint names of Mr W 
and his wife. The account was changed into Mr Ws sole name in May 2012 when he and his 
wife separated. The final deduction from the Save the Change service was made on 24 
December 2021.  
Mr W says he instructed Lloyds to sever financial ties with his wife but the Save the Change 
Service continued to operate with the deductions going to a third party account.
Mr W complained to Lloyds about this but Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong and 
wouldnt refund the money. 
Mr W was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion that 
although they cant say who set up the Save the Change service it wouldve had to have 
been set up by an authorised party to the account. 
And because the Save the Change service had been set up on a joint account the service 
terms allowed Lloyds to apply Save the Change to any debit cards issued to the joint 
account holders on the account. And as such they didnt think Lloyds had done anything 
wrong.
Mr W disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr W has experienced and see if Lloyds has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr W back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this particular case I dont think there is anything more of use or value that I can add to 
what our investigator has already said. The Save the Change service was set up on a jointly 
held account and as such either party was authorised to register for the service and in this 
case it hasnt been possible to tell which account holder registered for the service. 
I can see from Lloyds internal notes that in May 2012 Mr W requested Lloyds remove his 
partner from the joint account and that the account was duly registered in his sole name. But 
I cant see any instructions or anything in the notes requesting a stop on the Save the 
Change service. 
I can see that every deduction made from the Save the Change service is shown on Mr Ws 
bank statements for the past 10 years. If Mr W hadnt known about this service before or had 
asked for it to stop, I wouldve thought he wouldve raised this with Lloyds much sooner than 
he did. Ultimately, Mr W has to take some responsibility for the management of his account 
and that includes looking out for transactions that he hasnt authorised.
So because I havent seen any evidence to show me Mr W requested the Save the Change 
service to stop or that he didnt authorise the registration of it I cant say Lloyds has done 
anything wrong.
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman