DRN-2484869
The complaint
Mr F complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) wont fully refund the premium he 
paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. My references to URV include its agent.
What happened
Mr F bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV. 
Mr F bought the policy through a broker on 10 March 2020 to cover a trip abroad from the 15 
to 29 June 2020. 
Mr F paid £99.45 for the policy which covered his declared medical conditions and the 
gadget cover option, as well as postage.
Mr F cant recall what date his holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19 but he said he would 
have cancelled the travel insurance policy immediately. He contacted the broker to cancel 
the policy on 13 May 2020. The date of holiday cancellation doesnt impact on the outcome 
of this complaint and for the purpose of my decision Ill take the 13 May 2020 as the date the 
holiday was cancelled. 
URV offered Mr F a 75% cash refund of the policy premium as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr F didnt accept URVs offer. He wants the full amount of premium he paid refunded.
Our investigator said URVs offer of 75% cash refund of the premium was fair. 
Mr F disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said the holiday provider cancelled 
his holiday so it wasnt his fault that he had to cancel the policy. He believes strongly that 
URV should refund all the premium he paid for the policy and said he couldnt afford to be 
paid less than he paid for the premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says certain insurance contracts like the one Mr F held have a cooling off period of 
up to 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This 
is called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred.
Mr F didnt cancel his travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry rules, even 
if Mr F had cancelled the policy within 14 days, he wouldnt be entitled to a full refund of the 
premium paid. This is because URV covered the risk of him cancelling the upcoming trip for 
reasons that were covered under the policy during that time.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs insurance policy with URV outlines his cancellation rights 
under the contract. These say:
You have a cooling off period where, should you decide that you find that the terms 
and conditions do not meet your requirements, and provided you have not travelled 
or claimed on the policy, you can advise us within 14 days of purchase for a full 
refund to be considered. Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14 day 
cooling off period, and can confirm that there have been no claims on the policy and 
that you have not travelled, in addition to a £15 administration charge; the following 
cancellation terms will be applied dependant on what type of policy you have 
purchased.
Single Trip policies - In the event you have not travelled and are not claiming on the 
policy, a refund of 50% of the policy premium and any additional premium applied to 
your existing medical conditions will apply
Mr Fs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to him than is 
required by industry rules. Mr F bought the policy on 10 March 2020 and cancelled the policy 
on 13 May 2020. That was more than 14 days after he bought the policy which means he is 
entitled to a 50% refund of premiums under the terms and conditions of the contract with 
URV.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Mr Fs planned trip, and the need for his single trip policy, changed due to circumstances 
outside of his control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
URV to do anything further, taking into account the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19.Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract.
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr Fs contract with URV to be performed 
as cover under the policy started on 10 March 2020.
Mr F wasnt just insured for the dates he was due to travel. The price set by URV also 
covered him for cancellation cover from 10 March 2020. So the premium Mr F paid covered 
the risk of him having to cancel his holiday due to any of a number of listed events insured 
under the policy (including, for example, Mr F falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical 
condition).
URV was covering the risk of Mr F making a successful claim on the policy from 10 March 
2020 until his holiday was cancelled on 13 May 2020. Its a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however 
short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr Fs cancellation 
rights were, it isnt unfair for URV to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time.
However, after 13 May 2020 the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, URV didnt bear 
any risk under Mr Fs insurance policy. The holiday had been cancelled and URV hasnt paid 
a claim in relation to that. URV was no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled 
for any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, URV was no 
longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr F were travelling abroad.
URV has said the premiums paid by Mr F for his travel insurance policy were split at around 
50% of the premium for pre-travel cancellation cover and 50% of the premium for cover 
while travelling.
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that URV has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied URV has demonstrated theres a material 
unevenness in the way the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied that URV hasnt 
treated Mr F unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar circumstances. 
The calculation of the refund
URV offered Mr F a 75% cash refund of the premium. That is higher than the 50% of the 
premium it says it will pay under the policy terms. Also URV isnt charging Mr F an 
administration fee, which it is entitled to charge under the policy terms. 
The insurance certificate says the premium Mr F paid was £78.55 plus £15.95 for gadget 
cover under the policy plus £4.95 postage, which totals £99.45. 
75% of £99.45 is £74.58, which URV has offered to pay Mr F. Taking into account the policy 
terms, and that URV covered various risks for the period of time the policy was in place, Im 
satisfied that URVs offer to refund Mr F £74.58 as 75% of the total premium he paid for the 
policy is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I wont be asking URV to do anything 
further.
If Mr F hasnt already received the cash URV offered and he now wishes to accept URVs 
offer he should contact it direct.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman