DRN-3602723
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs actions in relation to his chargeback claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill briefly summarise what I consider to be the key points.
On 26 March 2021, Mr H paid a merchant, C, £500 from his Santander account. This was to 
purchase, and trade, shares. There was an error with Cs platform which caused Mr H to 
lose out. He therefore disputed the transaction with Santander. But he says he was told he 
needed to wait for the payment to clear  and Santander gave conflicting information about 
how long this would take. He says he also didnt receive call backs he was promised. And 
when he did speak to Santander, its staff were rude. 
Hes also unhappy that Santander asked him to provide Cs terms and conditions to proceed 
with his claim. He questions why he wasnt told this from the start  it wasnt explained on 
the claim form. He also says Cs terms are available online, so Santander should have got 
them itself. And it continued to request the terms after hed provided them. 
Mr H complained to Santander about the service it had provided, and about the information it 
had asked for. It paid him £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. But it 
maintained it needed him to provide the terms. It explained it couldnt rely on the link hed 
provided by email, as these may have been updated over time. It needed to see the copy he 
received when he signed up to Cs services. 
In the end, C refunded Mr H directly. I can see he received a credit from them into his 
Santander account around seven weeks after the transaction. Mr H was still dissatisfied with 
Santanders complaint response, so referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
thought Mr H had been adequately compensated. In response, Mr H has requested an 
ombudsmans decision. He disagrees with the investigators outcome and doesnt feel 
theyve answered all his questions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Santander doesnt need to do anything more to resolve 
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr H has made quite detailed submissions to us about his complaint, including some specific 
questions. Id reassure him that Ive considered everything hes submitted carefully, but I 
wont be responding in similar detail. I dont have to answer each and every question. If I 
dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, thats not because I havent taken it into 
account. Its just that I dont believe it necessary to reference it to explain my decision, which 
is focussed on what I consider to be the main issues. This isnt intended as a discourtesy. 
Its a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Ultimately, Im considering whether Santander made any mistakes which caused Mr H a 
loss. I wont be making an award or direction if I find that Santander did what it was expected 
to do; that it made mistakes but Mr H didnt lose out as a result; or that it made mistakes but 
its already done enough to address the impact these had on Mr H. I appreciate Mr H feels 
his concerns have been somewhat swept away by the compensation offered. But our role is 
to put things right on an individual basis when someone has been treated unfairly, rather 
than to penalise businesses for errors which have already been adequately resolved. 
As C has refunded Mr H, hes not been left with a financial loss. Santander also paid him 
£50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. So all that remains for me to consider 
is whether this is a fair reflection of the impact caused by any errors it made in relation to the 
disputed payment. Our services approach is to consider this holistically  we look at 
everything that has happened, and whether the compensation is enough. 
The outcome of a chargeback claim is based on the card schemes rules. Those are outside 
Santanders control. The rules set out what kind of disputes can be considered through the 
scheme. The specific evidence required varies based on the type of dispute. I agree it would 
have been helpful if Santander had been clearer about what was needed from the outset. On 
the other hand, I can understand why it first got general information about the dispute before 
sending a further request tailored to the claim type and the specific requirements for this. In 
any event, I can see the tailored request was sent within a week of Mr H submitting his form 
 limiting the impact this delay had on him. 
Additionally, whilst Id expect Santander to have professional knowledge of the chargeback 
process, and to guide Mr H on what he needed to do, I wouldnt expect it to build the case 
for him. Thats the responsibility of the person raising the claim. As mentioned above, the 
claim requirements are set by the card scheme provider, not Santander. Bearing that in 
mind, I dont consider it unfair or onerous that Santander asked him to provide the terms, or 
that it needed these in a specific format. As it explained, it needed to ensure the copy it had 
was applicable to Mr Hs dispute to fulfil the chargeback criteria.  Thats notwithstanding that 
we generally consider it reasonable for consumers to try to resolve issues with the merchant 
directly  as Mr H was ultimately able to do  before expecting banks to put forward 
chargeback claims. 
That said, its agreed that Santander did provide poor service at times. Particularly regarding 
its initial phone contact with Mr H (including not fulfilling call backs). And whilst the dispute 
itself ultimately came about as a result of Mr Hs relationship with C, rather than Santander, I 
do think Santander could have lessened his distress and inconvenience if it had provided 
better service. Thinking holistically about how Santander handled this claim, Im satisfied the 
£50 compensation its already paid Mr H is a fair way to put things right. Im not persuaded 
the level of impact caused by its service failings  as opposed to the dispute with C, or the 
general chargeback process  warrants further compensation.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Santander UK Plc doesnt need to do 
anything more to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Rachel LoughlinOmbudsman