DRN-4019752
The complaint
A limited company which Ill refer to as N complains about Society of Lloyd's (SoL) 
decision to decline a claim it made on a professional indemnity insurance policy.
Mr C brings the complaint on behalf of N. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
In summary, the policy insures N when providing project management services. SoL say the 
claim made against N relates to its role as a contractor in the renovation of a property. And 
therefore, it says no cover is provided by the policy for this.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint and they explained to N why they did not think SoL 
had acted incorrectly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy contains an insuring clause which says, We agree to indemnify the 
Insured, up to the Limit of Indemnity, against civil liability for compensation to any 
third party arising from any Claim as a result of the conduct of the Insured's 
Professional Service. Here the professional service is listed as project management.
SoL obtained the opinion of a barrister as to Ns role in the contract it entered into 
with the third party, which subsequently gave rise to the claim against it. The barrister 
concluded that Ns role primarily was as a contractor not a project manager. 
I understand Mr C has strong views about why the barristers opinion maybe 
incorrect, and hes put forward that N had different roles in the project itself. 
However, it is not my role to question the barristers opinion or to decide which role 
the claim against N arose from. My decision here focusses on whether I think SoL 
has acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
Here, given the various arguments that have been put forward I think it was 
reasonable for SoL to obtain the opinion of a barrister. And having read it, I think it is 
well reasoned and doesnt appear obviously wrong. As such, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for SoL to rely on the barristers findings when making the decision to 
decline the claim.  
I understand Mr C is unhappy that SoL have put forward various reasons why it does 
not think the claim is covered under the policy and it has cited other exclusions within 
the policy that it thinks would operate even if N was providing project management 
services.  I can appreciate the frustration this will have caused. However, for the 
reasons set out above, Im satisfied SoL has acted fairly and reasonably in declining 
the claim. 
Mr C has said, given the commentary around the role N performs it appears the 
policy was potentially mis-sold as it was not fit for purpose. This isnt a complaint I 
have considered here, and he would therefore need to take this up, on behalf of N, 
with the entity which sold the policy to it. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ns complaint against Society of Lloyd's.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman