DRN-3447942
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received when he approached HSBC UK Bank Plc
(HSBC) for support as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr W had two loans and a credit card account with HSBC. In March 2020, his income was
impacted by Covid-19 and he contacted HSBC for support. HSBC applied Breathing Space
to his accounts for 60 days. That meant Mr W didnt have to make any payments, but his
accounts would be treated as being in arrears and his credit file would be impacted. This
came to an end in May 2020. Mr W applied for payment holidays on his accounts at that
point and says he was told that HSBC would contact him about his applications.
But he says he had to keep chasing HSBC to find out what was going on. He says he made
13 calls between May and November 2020, but no-one was able to tell him what was
happening until November, when he says he was told his applications hadnt been
processed. No payment holidays had been put in place and missed payments had been
recorded on all of his accounts.
In the period from May to November 2020, Mr W made three complaints to HSBC about the
lack of communication and contradictory information he says he received about his payment
holiday applications. In response, HSBC paid him £250 in total to acknowledge the trouble
and upset caused and recognise any misinformation given.
But Mr W remained unhappy about the situation and came to this service in December 2020.
He said his credit file had been seriously affected and he couldnt access credit services as a
result. He wanted HSBC to remove the missed payments from his credit file and make
proposals for managing the accounts going forward.
HSBC said that Mr W wasnt eligible for a payment holiday because he had no income and
his accounts were in arrears. It said it made the right decision to apply Breathing Space to
his accounts and that it had tried to reach a repayment solution with Mr W since then, but
nothing had been agreed. HSBC said it didnt need to amend Mr Ws credit file as it was an
accurate reflection of his account status. After the complaint was referred to this service, Mr
Ws accounts were defaulted and transferred to a debt collection agency.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 March 2022 indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint. Both parties have accepted the provisional decision so Im now making a final 
decision about this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to uphold this complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons 
are set out below.
Theres no dispute that Mr W only contacted HSBC because of the impact Covid-19 was
having on his income. He was acting responsibly by proactively contacting his creditors.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released guidance which said
that firms should offer payment holidays of up to three months to customers who were
negatively impacted by coronavirus. It said that customers credit files shouldnt be affected
by taking a payment holiday. These measures were extended in July 2020, when the FCA
said that firms should extend payment holidays for a further three months for customers who
were still struggling due to coronavirus.
Mr W first called HSBC on or around 26 March 2020. This was before the FCAs guidance
had been released. So I appreciate why HSBC didnt offer him a payment holiday at that
point. But I think it should have agreed to a payment holiday when he applied in May 2020.
Im satisfied that, when Mr W first called HSBC in March, he would have met the criteria for a
payment holiday if payment holidays had been available then. His accounts were up to date
and his finances had been affected by Covid-19. By May 2020, when he applied for a
payment holiday, his accounts were no longer up to date. But the reason for this was
because Breathing Space had been set up on the accounts. So Mr W was worse off for
having proactively contacted HSBC before the FCA guidance was released and for having
agreed to the arrangement suggested by HSBC at the time, just a few days before the FCA
guidance was issued.
I think the FCA guidance ought to have been applied retrospectively here. I think Mr W could
have been eligible for a payment holiday of up to six months. He wouldnt have had to make
payments during that time and his credit file wouldnt have been impacted. But the Breathing
Space had a negative impact on his credit file and meant that his account was viewed as
being in arrears.
HSBC says that, when Mr Ws request for a payment holiday was declined, he should have
engaged with it to come to another repayment solution. But Mr Ws request for a payment
holiday wasnt declined. I havent seen any evidence of it being considered or decided one
way or another. A large element of Mr Ws complaint is that he never heard back from HSBC
about his application.
Its clear from HSBCs complaint investigation notes that Mr W hadnt been given an answer
about whether a payment holiday would be applied to his accounts and that no decision had
yet been made about it by HSBC. The final response letters dated 17 July 2020 and 28 
September 2020 confirmed that Mr W was still waiting for an answer. They said I can
confirm that the matter has now been referred to the Financial Support Team (FST). If you
havent already been contacted, then someone will contact you within the next 10 working
days to discuss your payment holiday application.
Ive listened to the recording of Mr Ws call to HSBC on 12 November 2020. This was
provided by Mr W, although HSBC had said previously that it wasnt available. In this call, Mr 
W was told that his accounts were on the payment holiday spreadsheet, but the dates were 
blank. The agent said the only reason for this would be that the payment holiday applications 
had been declined, and the reason they would have been declined was because he was on 
Breathing Space. But Mr W still hadnt received an official response to his applications and I 
dont think this call amounted to one.Mr W complained again but he says he didnt hear anything from HSBC, so he referred the
complaint to this service in December 2020. HSBC responded to the complaint on 26
January 2021. Once again, the solution offered was that someone from the FST would call
Mr W. HSBCs contact notes show that it did try to call Mr W shortly after the letter was sent,
but contact wasnt successful. HSBC says that Mr W should have engaged with it. But I dont
find this to be a straightforward case of a customer refusing to engage.
Its right that both parties needed to engage in order to reach a solution. Mr W is responsible
for the management of his account and HSBC has obligations to Mr W. But Mr W wasnt
given a clear answer to his payment holiday request over a period of months. He had tried
on many occasions to find out what was happening but hadnt been given an answer by
HSBC. This was understandably extremely stressful and frustrating. By the time HSBC
wanted to speak to him in January 2021, communications between HSBC and Mr W were
very strained and the complaint had been referred to this service. He wanted to wait for the
outcome of the investigation by this service, which doesnt seem unreasonable.
Mr Ws accounts have since been defaulted and passed to a debt collection agency. I can 
understand why HSBC took those steps, as Mr W hadnt made any payments since March 
2020. But, for the reasons above, I think Mr W should have been on a payment holiday for 
part of that time. And, if that had happened, I think its likely that his accounts would be in a 
different position now.
Mr W has responsibility for the management of his accounts. But HSBC made a series of
mistakes here, namely applying Breathing Space, not putting payment holidays in place, not
responding to Mr Ws applications, continuing to suggest over months that the payment
holiday requests were still being considered and giving Mr W inconsistent information. I think
these mistakes contributed significantly to the current situation with Mr Ws accounts.
From all the information Ive seen, I think HSBC should have dealt with Mr Ws request for
support more appropriately and in line with the FCAs guidance, offering him support when
he needed it. To put things right, I think HSBC should remove the adverse entries from Mr
Ws credit file from March 2020 onwards, recall his accounts from the debt collection agency
and re-age his accounts. Mr W should resume payments to the accounts and I would urge
him to engage with HSBC about this.
From what Ive seen, HSBC didnt apply any interest to Mr Ws accounts after March 2020. I
think thats fair, so Im not planning to ask it to do any more about that.
HSBC has paid Mr W £250 to date for distress and inconvenience. That was for
misinformation about his applications. It wasnt to do with the effect this had on his accounts
or credit file or the stress of the situation over many months. Im also aware that Mr W has
had to bring the complaint to this stage to get answers to exactly what happened here and
he has spent a great deal of time on this complaint. So I think a further compensation
payment is warranted.
But Im looking at the situation impartially so, in deciding the amount of compensation, Ive
also taken into account the fact that Mr W hasnt made any payments over many months,
including after it became apparent that HSBC wasnt going to put a payment holiday in
place. I understand his reasons for this, but I dont think it was helpful to the overall situation.
Taking everything into account, I think a further compensation payment of £100 would be
appropriate.
Since issuing my provisional decision, I understand that HSBC has recalled some or all of 
the accounts from the debt collection agency. Mr W says HSBC has contacted him, asking 
him to get in touch about the loans. HSBC has confirmed that the accounts were placed on hold for 30 days from 23 March 2022 pending the outcome of this complaint and that calls on 
all three accounts have been held until the end of May. I think thats reasonable. I would 
urge Mr W to contact HSBC to agree a way forward for each of the accounts. 
Mr W says he has also received contact from HSBC about his overdraft facility and his 
banking relationship more generally. The overdraft facility doesnt fall within the scope of this 
complaint so Im not looking at that here. But I havent seen anything to suggest that any 
communications from HSBC about it were driven by this complaint. As to the banking 
relationship more generally, HSBC says it cant find a record of anything having been said to 
Mr W about this and I havent seen anything which enables me to reach any conclusions 
about this. I would urge the parties to resume contact now and agree a way forward.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
remove adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies from March
2020 onwards;
recall Mr Ws accounts from the debt collection agency (if it hasnt already done so);
re-age Mr Ws accounts; and
pay Mr W further compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman