DRN-3153939
The complaint
Mr E complains to Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd about problems he encountered when trying 
to sell some shares on their platform. He says the technical issues prevented him from 
taking profit and asks to be compensated for his losses.
What happened
Mr E has had a leveraged trading account with Interactive Brokers (IB) since November 
2016. On 2 July 2020 at 9:30am Eastern Time (ET), Mr E opened a c£7,300 long position for 
2,000 shares in a company at $186. He says he intended on closing the trade shortly after 
for a £2,000 profit. 
However, due to issues with IBs mobile trading platform, Mr E wasnt able to close the 
position. He says he tried logging on using different devices without luck, then tried calling IB 
but was twice told they couldnt help so he needed to send an email. He says a member of 
staff acknowledged the technical issues and gave him the phone number of the dealing desk 
 he called and closed the position, but by this point the share price had fallen to just over 
$181, meaning he lost around $9,300. 
Unhappy about this, Mr E asked to be compensated. IB looked into his concerns but didnt 
agree they ought to compensate him  they said there were other ways he could have 
placed a closing order such as the client portal, the trade workstation on desktop and their 
order desk. The only record they had of Mr E contacting them was when the position was 
closed at 11am ET. IB also said that while their priority was to maintain a reliable trading 
platform, this didnt mean they could guarantee there would be no issues. 
Mr E asked for our help. He told us he intended on closing the position only a few minutes 
after opening it and when the mobile app didnt work, he tried his laptop, tablet and desktop 
 none of which worked. He also went elsewhere in case it was his internet connection. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened, but he didnt agree IB had done 
anything wrong. He said, in summary:
he agreed thered been an issue with IBs mobile app but rather than it not working at 
all, the issues instead appeared to be around its speed 
IBs customer agreement discharged liability for system failures like this
but this aside, IB had taken steps to notify clients with a status message on the app 
which redirected users to the website instead
there was no evidence hed made multiple unsuccessful calls to IB  instead there 
was record of only one call when Mr E sold the shares
although Mr E says he was told to email IB, there wasnt any evidence to show that 
this advice had been followed and an email had been sent
the issues with the mobile app didnt appear to have arisen until half an hour after 
hed opened the position  so had he have tried to sell shortly after, he should have 
been able to
and so as he didnt think Mr E had done enough to at the time to try and close the 
position, he didnt think IB should compensate him
Mr E didnt agree. He sent evidence of his call history and pointed to another call made that 
IB hadnt disclosed. Our investigator asked IB for this recording, but it wasnt available. This 
aside, our investigator still thought Mr E couldve done more to mitigate his position, so didnt 
uphold the complaint. Remaining unhappy with this, Mr Es case was referred to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IB have told us they experienced a technical issue on their mobile trading platform between 
10 and 11am ET on the day in question. Having reviewed the associated IT report, I can see 
the issue was that users might have experienced delays in logging into the app, along with 
performance issues thereafter. I can see a status message was added to the app which said 
We are currently experiencing a slowness in the login and operation of IBKR Mobile. To 
manage your risk and place orders urgently please login to the Trader Workstation. So it is 
not in doubt that there was an issue with IBs mobile app. What I have therefore considered 
is what impact this issue had on Mr E. 
Mr E opened his position at around 9:30am ET. IB became aware of issue with their app 
around 10am. So its possible Mr E did indeed begin experiencing issues shortly after 
opening his position as he says. 
I have listened to the call recording we have from when Mr E closed his position just after 
11am ET. It began with him explaining hed been having trouble logging into the app  when 
he tried logging in, it kept freezing, and that hed been trying to close a position for some 
time. The member of staff said there were some delays on the app at that time, so she put 
him through to the US trading desk and they helped close the position. 
I have reviewed Mr Es log-ins and can see that hed logged in and out around 40 times that 
day. I can also see he logged in from a mobile phone as well as a tablet, before later trying 
the client portal. But having checked IBs call log, I cant see he tried to call them as soon as 
the problem occurred  instead it appears as though he waited an hour and a half, in which 
time the performance of his position changed drastically. 
As IBs terms referenced, things can go wrong from time to time  but if a business has 
contributed to a consumers losses, our service would look to see how they might be able to 
put things right. But in doing so, we must be sure that not only did the business contribute to 
the loss, but also that the consumer did what they could to mitigate their loss  what that 
means will vary on a case by case basis, but we would want to see someone had done what 
they reasonably could to work around the problem. 
In this case, from everything Ive seen I dont think Mr E did enough. I say that because 
despite knowing that every second counted when his trade was open  whether it was at the 
point of showing the profit he tried to take or as the loss began to escalate  it doesnt 
appear that he tried to call IB for an hour and a half. Though Mr E may not have tried to call IB immediately  as I appreciate he may have tried to work the problem by logging in using 
other devices  I think he ought to have reached out for help sooner than he did. 
To counter this, I appreciate Mr E will say he called IB twice in the meantime. However IBs 
call log doesnt show theyd heard from him. While Mr E points to a call he made at 15:01 
GMT, I havent been able to listen to it as IB told us hed called an extension which wasnt 
recorded  for this reason, they cannot be sure if the two minute call was either Mr E 
speaking to a member of staff or simply waiting on hold. Nevertheless, Mr Es recollection of 
this call was that he was told to email IB with his instructions. But hes not shared any 
evidence to show us he did that. So even if I did have the call recording proving IB asked 
Mr E to email them, our investigators point around Mr E failing to mitigate his losses still 
stands, given he failed to follow the suggested action he told us about.
Though I appreciate he will be disappointed by my decision given the considerable sum of 
money involved, I dont think its unreasonable to have expected Mr E to have called (or 
indeed emailed as he suggests) IB much sooner than he did  I would have expected him to 
have used all possible avenues to contact them given the risks posed by his worsening 
position. Id like to be clear that its not that I think Mr E took no action to mitigate here  I 
can see he was logging in and out, had been monitoring his position and was aware of the 
issue  I just dont think he did enough here that would mean IB ought fairly and reasonably 
to be responsible for the money he lost.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman