DRN-3877603
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against him.
Background
In April 2022, Mr Hs account received four payments totalling £1,548.00. A significant 
proportion of these funds were then withdrawn from a Barclays branch. 
Barclays was subsequently contacted by another of its customers who said that they were 
scammed into sending the funds to Mr Hs account. Barclays carried out a review and as a 
result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr Hs account and record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Mr H subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. As Mr H remained dissatisfied, Mr H referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Hs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr H was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr H allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Hs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Hs account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Hs 
account in April 2022, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr H was complicit in this activity. 
Mr H has said that he knows nothing about the transfers in question as they werent 
authorised by him. He said that he left his phone and his wallet in a coffee shop, for a period 
of hours, a few days earlier. And he believes that someone must have obtained his details 
during this time and then carried out the activity. 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. But Im afraid that the available evidence calls into 
question his version of events. Firstly, a significant proportion of the funds, which exceeded 
the amount that was in the account before the fraudulent activity took place, were withdrawn 
in branch after Mr Hs account had already been blocked. I understand a payslip was used to 
prove entitlement to the funds too. And it is unlikely that an opportunistic fraudster would 
have been able to withdraw these funds in this way given Mr H said his phone and wallet 
were returned to him before this activity took place  and one of Mr Hs payslips was used in 
an attempt to prove entitlement to the funds.
So given the implausibility of Mr Hs version of events, Im satisfied that Barclays was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr H was complicit in the 
fraudulent activity. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays record a 
fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did.
I now turn to the closure of Mr Hs account. The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account state 
Barclays could close an account, without providing notice, in certain circumstances. These 
included where it had reasonable grounds for thinking a customer commit(ted) (or 
attempt)(ted) fraud against us or someone else. 
Ive already explained why I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr Hs 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Barclays to close Mr Hs account in 
the way that it did. 
 
So overall I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards Mr H and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr H  especially given the effect 
that Mr H s saying that the marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr H might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman