DRN-3471841
The complaint
Mr O complains an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Limited gave him unsuitable 
advice to move his pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to invest in a high-risk 
investment.
What happened
Mr O says he received a cold call from a company who asked him about his pension and 
whether he was satisfied with it. Hes not sure who this company was, but he says he was 
then passed to an adviser  Mr W at Bridgewater Financial Services Ltd  who he spoke to 
several times. He says Mr W told him hed be better off if he transferred out of his current 
pension into a SIPP to make an investment called Verdant Australian Farmland (now Global 
Agricultural Services). He says he was told the returns were guaranteed to be better than 
those from his existing pension and was led to believe it was a low to medium risk 
investment which fit with the level of risk he was prepared to take.
Bridgewater was an appointed representative of Paradigm Financial Advisers Limited 
between 26 November 2009 and 27 January 2011. Paradigm later changed its name to 
Caerus Financial Limited and then to Quilter Financial Limited. For the purposes of this 
decision, Ill refer to the business as Quilter throughout. And Ill refer to the investment as 
GAS.
The SIPP application form was signed on 25 March 2010. The transaction history for the 
SIPP shows:
The SIPP was opened on 16 April 2010.
Mr Os Barclays pension (£30,410.25) was transferred on 26 April 2010.
IFA fees of £1,060.36 were paid to Bridgewater on 4 May 2010.
£25,000 was invested into GAS on 7 May 2010.
Returns of £1,599.44; £89.74; and £179.29 were received from the GAS investment 
on 26 October 2012; 14 October 2013; and 17 September 2014 respectively.
No further returns were received, and it seems the GAS investment was revalued to £1 in 
2017. Mr O complained to Quilter on 9 October 2019 about the advice he said Bridgewater 
had given him and brought his complaint to this service.
Quilter said it isnt responsible. In particular, it said Mr O had made his complaint too late. It 
said the events complained about were more than six years before he complained and he 
was sent a letter about the investment on 8 October 2014 that, along with the annual 
statements for the SIPP, should have caused concern and this was more than three years 
before he complained. But in any event, it said Mr W hadnt been acting in his capacity as a 
representative of Quilter. It said it had no business relationship with the investment provider 
and had received no renumeration. It also said the agreement between it and Bridgewater 
means its only responsible for introductions to, or applications submitted to, an approved 
institution.
Mr Os representative said hed never received the 8 October 2014 update. An investigator 
was satisfied we could consider Mr Os complaint against Quilter and that the complaint 
should be upheld. In summary, she said:
Mr O didnt know he had cause for complaint more than three years before he did. 
And theres nothing to say he ought reasonably to have. Theres no evidence the 
8 October 2014 update was sent to Mr O; theres nothing to suggest the value of the 
investment dropped more than three years before Mr O complained; and theres 
nothing to suggest Mr O was expecting any particular ongoing returns from the 
investment. 
Bridgewater advised Mr O and Quilter is responsible for that advice. Nothing had 
been provided to support Quilters claim that Bridgewater could only make 
introductions to, or submit applications to, an approved institution under the 
agreement with it.
The advice to move Mr Os pension to a SIPP to invest in the GAS investment wasnt 
suitable.
If everything had happened as it should have, Mr O would have left his pension 
where it was.
Quilter didnt agree. It said Mr O must have been aware of the GAS investments valuation 
and the fact the returns from it had dropped in 2013 and said this ought reasonably to have 
made him aware of cause for complaint. The issue has therefore been passed to me for a 
decision.
My findings  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is in the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.
Was the complaint made too late?
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook of Rules and 
Guidance.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limitswas as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Its not clear exactly when the advice complained about was given. But as set out above, the 
SIPP application form was signed on 25 March 2010. So, the advice must have happened 
on or before 25 March 2010.
Mr O complained to Quilter on 9 October 2019. The complaint is therefore outside the first 
part of the time limit  i.e. it was made more than six years after the events complained 
about.
The issue for me to decide is whether the complaint was also made outside the second part 
of the time limit  i.e. whether it was made more than three years after Mr O knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, he had cause for complaint.
Mr O has provided a letter he received from the SIPP provider dated 5 September 2014. 
This enclosed a letter from Global Agricultural Services which read:
The Board of Directors wish to apologise for the delay in distributions and reporting 
which will be completed this week.
At present, the Group is undertaking a review of its tax situation in Australia which 
has proved to be more complicated than anticipated.
The Board has also taken into consideration the unusual amount of requests to sell 
farmland ahead of the eight year contractual period.
As a consequence of the tax review and the long term nature of the investment, the 
Board is proposing a restructure of the overall Fund, dependent upon the agreement 
of the Australian Tax Office and Australian Securities and Investment Commission to 
the proposed arrangements and subsequent calculations. It is hoped that the new 
structure will facilitate the trading and realising of current holdings.
The Chairman of the Boardwill be hosting a series of meetings in the first week of 
October to discuss with any Investors the Boards proposals.
The cover letter from the SIPP provider said a representative would attend one of the 
meetings and itd then update clients. Ive carefully considered these letters and I note that 
they hint at the fact there might be some issues with the GAS investment but theres nothing 
in them that I think ought reasonably to have made Mr O aware of cause for complaint.
Quilter says on 8 October 2014 Mr O was sent A REVIEW from the Board of GAS Global 
Agricultural Services which read:
PRESENT REDEMPTION OF INVESTMENTS
The Board is of the opinion that the market for wheat producing farmland in Australia 
is very weak. Discussions with farm managers, banks and lawyers indicate that the 
market is very parochial. The values of the farms are difficult to determine professionally as there are several repossessions available at reduced cost and there 
is poor demand.
The present set up of the Fund renders sales difficult; the Fund is regarded as a long 
term investment and the plot holders are locked in by the terms of their investments 
with realisation dates ranging from 2018 to 2020.
LONG TERM REDEMPTION
The consideration of short term selling also led the Board to reconsider the exit 
plan. If, as the previous paragraph implies he weakness of the Western Australian 
farm Market is its parochialism, then, when the Fund comes to sell the various farms 
under the terms of the Investor contracts, it is a concern that the knowledge the Fund 
is having to sell by the due date may determine a lot weaker price.
LIQUIDITY OF INVESTMENT
In short, the Fund is illiquid in trading terms and the requests for redemption are 
extremely difficult to satisfy. In addition, the previous sources of funding, i.e. UK 
pensions, financial advisors etc. are neither available or acceptable to the Board.
It says this letter ought reasonably to have made Mr O aware of cause for complaint. 
However, I havent commented on the content of this letter because it would only be relevant 
if I was satisfied Mr O most likely received the letter. Taking everything into account, Im not 
persuaded this is most likely. Mr O has consistently said he didnt receive the letter; Quilter 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence of the letter being sent; and the SIPP provider has 
confirmed to us it cant evidence the letter being sent to consumers. I also note that Mr O did 
keep a copy of an earlier letter he received. I therefore havent put any weight on the 
8 October 2014 letter in deciding what Mr O knew, or ought reasonably to have known.
Between them, the SIPP provider and Mr O have only been able to provide one statement 
that was sent to Mr O before 2017  the 2012 one. Ive carefully considered this and note it 
included a line The value of your fund as at 30th March 2012 is: £28545.93. Whilst this is 
slightly lower than Mr O may have been expecting to see, I dont think this is sufficient to say 
he ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint at that point. Everything Ive seen 
suggests the value of the fund didnt fall significantly until the 2017 statement and Mr O did 
complain within three years of that statement. And I havent seen anything that persuades 
me the content of any of the statements between 2012 and 2017 ought reasonably to have 
concerned Mr O. Its not clear how they set out what returns had been received and even if 
they did this clearly, Mr O has said he wasnt expecting any particular level of returns.
Mr O says first knew something was wrong when he received a letter saying his SIPP 
provider was going into administration and he started looking into things in detail at that 
point. The SIPP provider went into administration in 2018. Mr Os explanation of what 
prompted him to complain seems plausible in the circumstances and Ive seen nothing that 
satisfies me he ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint before 2017.
Im therefore satisfied Mr O made his complaint within the time limits.
Responsibility
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Bridgewater wasnt directly authorised. 
Instead it was an appointed representative of Quilter. Quilter is an authorised firm. Its 
authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising on investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints 
about Quilter. And this includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Quilter was authorised to do. 
Whether Quilter is responsible for the actions of Mr W here is determined by considering the 
terms of the contract between Quilter and Bridgewater  the appointed representative 
agreement.
To decide whether Quilter is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr O has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mr O has complained about?
Mr O complains he was given unsuitable advice to switch his pension to a SIPP to invest in a 
high-risk investment.Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
arranging deals in investments is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.
Its clear that Mr W was involved in making arrangements for setting up the SIPP and the 
pension switch. Im satisfied its also most likely Mr W advised Mr O to switch his pension to 
the SIPP to invest in the GAS investment.
Although suitability reports are one of the indicators that advice was given, the absence of 
one doesnt mean advice wasnt given. I think its highly unlikely Mr O would have taken the 
decision himself to switch his pension to a SIPP to make the GAS investment without 
receiving advice. Hes plausibly and consistently said Mr W advised him and that hed been 
happy with his pension until that point. Im persuaded by Mr Os recollection of events. 
The SIPP and Mr Os previous pension are specified investments, so Im satisfied that 
advising on and arranging the switch are regulated activities. And given the timeline of 
events here, and what Mr O says happened, Im satisfied the advice to invest in GAS was 
either part of that advice and arranging, or ancillary to it.
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr W was most likely holding himself out as 
acting as Bridgewater  a representative of Quilter  at the time of the events complained 
about. 
I say this because:
Mr O has provided a copy of the Bridgewater client agreement that he was given. 
This included the below:
Our Commitment to You
Prior to providing you with any advice we will take time to understand your 
current needs, circumstances and attitude to risk. Any advice provided will be 
confirmed to you in writing
Investment and Non-Investment Insurance Services
Bridgewater Financial Services Limited is permitted to advise on and arrange 
(bring about) deals in investments and non-investment insurance contracts.
The SIPP application form Mr O signed on 25 March 2010 said:In return for the services to be provided by TLSC, I agree that TLSC may 
deduct from my fund the charges set out in the leaflet and such additional 
charges as I have agreed with BRIDGEWATER FINANCIAL SERVICES 
LIMITED and may realise any of the investments held for my benefit in order 
to pay their fees and any third party costs/fees relating to those investments 
or advice I receive in respect of this arrangement
I hereby appoint BRIDGEWATER FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD as investment 
managers for the purposes of the Lifetime SIPP and fully understand and 
agree that in all circumstances I am solely responsible for all decisions 
relating to the purchase, retention and sale of investments held under the 
SIPP for my benefit.
Mr W wrote to the SIPP provider with the documents for the SIPP on Bridgewater 
headed paper on 12 April 2010.
The DUE DILIGENCE  VERIFICATION OF IDENTITY document has a section 
DETAILS OF INTRODUCING FIRM (OR SOLE TRADER) section which is filled in 
as Bridgewater.
The SIPP provider confirmed the IFA was listed as Bridgewater.
Bridgewater was paid a fee from the SIPP.
Ive therefore gone on to consider the agreement that was in place between Quilter and 
Bridgewater. Unfortunately, I havent been provided with a copy of the appointed 
representative agreement that would have been in place at the time of the advice here. 
However, a later version of the agreement has been provided on other cases. And Quilter 
has said that the terms here would have been similar to the terms in that agreement. Ive 
therefore carefully considered that agreement and note that it says:
Appointment
The Firm hereby appoints the Representative as its appointed representative, subject 
to the terms of this Agreement. The Firm authorises the Representative to conduct 
the Relevant Activities.
Relevant Activities are defined as the activities regulated under FSMA set out in 
Schedule 1 which the Representative will be carrying out under this Agreement. And 
Schedule 1 sets out that this includes arranging deals in investments and advising on 
investments.
Based on the terms of this appointed representative agreement, it seems Bridgewater was 
authorised to give investment and pension advice and I cant see any restrictions that I think 
would be relevant in the circumstances here. 
Quilter says it didnt have a relationship with the investment provider and received no 
renumeration. And its said Bridgewater was only authorised to make introductions to, or 
submit applications to, an approved institution. But the version of the appointed 
representative agreement its provided doesnt include such a restriction. The investigator 
explained this to Quilter and gave it the opportunity to provide a different version of the 
appointed representative agreement or explain why her reading of the agreement is wrong. It 
did neither of those things.So, I think Quilter did accept responsibility for the acts conducted by Bridgewater.
My decision on jurisdiction
For the reasons discussed above, my decision is that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider this complaint.
My findings  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the complaint should be upheld.
Mr O says his attitude to risk was low-medium and he now knows the GAS investment 
involved more risk than he was prepared to take. As previously mentioned, a fact find from 
the time unfortunately isnt available. I havent seen any justification for switching a pension 
that it seems Mr O was happy with. It seems Mr Ws only reason for recommending the 
switch was so that Mr O could make the GAS investment. And I havent seen any 
documentary record of why this recommendation was made.
The GAS investment was an unregulated, esoteric, high-risk investment. It took the form of a 
land purchase contract which involved a company based in Cyprus leasing plots of 
agricultural land in Australia to investors. Crops were to be planted on the plots, and the 
objective was to provide an income to investors through the sale of those crops and capital 
growth through the sale of the plot of land. 
Investments such as this carry significant risks and a lack of protections. Mr O says he was 
self-employed at the time of the advice earning approximately £20,000 a year and had no 
investment experience. He was 54 years old and he says he couldnt afford to lose this 
pension as he only had a small amount of savings, little equity in the two properties he 
owned and one other pension that wasnt large.
Everything Ive seen suggests Mr O was an ordinary retail investor and theres nothing that 
suggests to me he was the sophisticated type of investor for which unregulated high-risk 
investments would be suitable. Hes said he wasnt in a position to replace any losses within 
his pension and theres nothing that suggests he could afford to take significant risks with 
this pension. Mr W should have known all of this.
In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to switch Mr Os pension to a SIPP to invest in 
the GAS investment wasnt suitable and should never have been made as a 
recommendation. 
Im persuaded by Mr Os evidence that he wasnt looking to move his pension and had been 
cold called. So, Im satisfied that if Mr W hadnt given unsuitable advice, Mr O would have 
left his pension as it was.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr O should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice. I take the view that Mr O wouldnt have 
moved his pension if everything had happened as it should have. Im satisfied that what Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable.In summary, Quilter should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr O has suffered as a result of making the switch and investment.
2. Take ownership of the GAS investment held in the SIPP if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Os pension in respect of his pension loss. If 
that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Mr O direct. In either case, the 
payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay Mr Os SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event hes not now able to close 
his SIPP.
5. Pay compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr O.
6. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by Mr O.
Ill explain how Quilter should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr O has suffered as a result of making the switch and 
investment
To do this, Quilter should work out the likely value of Mr Os pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of switching to the SIPP.
Quilter should ask Mr Os former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had he not switched his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation, then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable 
proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if the pension hadnt been 
switched.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Mr O has suffered.
Any additional sum that Mr O paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end.
2. Take ownership of the investment
Ideally, the asset in the SIPP  the GAS investment  could be removed from the SIPP. 
Mr O would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, and avoid paying further fees for 
the SIPP. For calculating compensation, Quilter should agree an amount with the SIPP 
provider as a commercial value for the investment. It should then pay the sum agreed plus 
any costs and take ownership of it.
If Quilter is able to purchase the GAS investment, then the price paid should be allowed for 
in the current transfer value (because itll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the 
investment).
If Quilter is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Provided Mr O is compensated in full, Quilter may ask Mr O to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP might receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the 
effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr O may receive from the investment and any 
eventual sums hed be able to access from the SIPP. Quilter will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Mr O for the loss hes suffered in (1)
Since the loss Mr O has suffered is within his pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Mr Os pension plan. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean 
the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow 
for the income tax relief Mr O could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Os marginal rate of tax.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr Os pension, the compensation should be 
paid to Mr O direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to 
Mr O should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Os marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example, if Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr O would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. SIPP fees
If Mr O is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid, Quilter should pay an 
amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent 
years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr O would not be in the 
SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So it wouldnt be fair for him to have to pay the fees to 
keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out 
with the GAS investment and the SIPP to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
Pay Mr O £300 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Mr O has been caused 
significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, in effect, a large 
portion of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £300 is fair to compensate for that 
upset.
6. Pay interest
Quilter should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that 
Mr O has accepted this decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to be 
paid from the date of this decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest 
per year. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr O how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr O 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr O asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. I require Quilter Financial 
Limited to pay Mr O fair compensation as set out above. Quilter Financial Limited should 
provide details of its calculation to Mr O in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman