DRN-1464909
 
The complaint
Miss K says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Nationwide sold Miss K the policy when she took out a loan in 2004. The policy covered 
Miss K if she lost her job for up to 12 months or for up to 24 months if she was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt think her complaint should be upheld because he thought the 
paperwork and phone scripts used at the time presented the PPI as optional and thought the 
PPI wouldve been of benefit to Miss K.
Miss K disagree. She say the terms and conditions of the policy werent explained clearly 
and she didnt need PPI. 
So her complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ks complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Miss K says the policy was sold over the phone. Unfortunately, Nationwide dont have a call 
recording of the sale or any records that could confirm this, but I think thats understandable 
given the amount of time that has passed. So I cant say exactly what was said at the time 
the PPI was sold.
So to decide how the PPI was presented, Ive considered what Miss K has said along with 
what Nationwide have said about its sales process and any documents weve been given 
from the time of sale. 
Nationwide say that its sales process wouldve been followed and that Miss K wouldve been 
given enough information to decide if she wanted to take the PPI. Nationwide say that the 
PPI wouldve only been included on the credit agreement if Miss K had consented to it. 
Ive had a look at Nationwides phone sales scripts from the time and can see if followed that 
it wouldve been clear PPI was optional and Miss K wouldve had to consent to have it added 
to the credit agreement. Although I cant say that the script was followed exactly, I have no 
reason to believe PPI wasnt presented this way as if it wasnt presented as optional it would 
contradict the credit agreement sent out to Miss K following the sale.
Ive seen a copy of Miss Ks signed credit agreement which I can see clearly sets out the 
cost of the loan separately from the PPI and has a separate box displaying the PPI cost 
describing it as Optional Credit Insurance. 
I dont think Nationwide wouldve included PPI on the credit agreement if Miss K hadnt 
agreed to it. 
And I think if Miss K hadnt agreed to take out PPI or thought she had no choice in taking the 
PPI she wouldve questioned why it was included and described as optional within the 
agreement. So I think its likely Miss K received the loan agreement with PPI on it because 
she chose to take the loan with PPI.
From what we now about how Nationwide sold PPI it didnt advise Miss K to take the policy. 
What this means is that it didnt recommend PPI to Miss K, it just gave her information about 
PPI and it was up to Miss K to assess her needs in this regard. This information needed to 
be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so that Miss K could make an 
informed choice about buying PPI.
From what I can see on the credit agreement I think the cost of the PPI was clear, but I dont 
know if the other information given was good enough. But in saying that I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference because I still think Miss K wouldve taken out the policy 
because at the time she took out the loan:
From the information I have, theres nothing to suggest Mrs E wasnt eligible for the 
PPI. And it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
Although Mrs E says she had a good level of sick pay and savings she could use if 
she was unable to work. But I think the PPI still provided her with a useful benefit. A 
successful claim wouldve paid out in addition to any cover she had in place and for 
potentially longer as well as filling any gaps in Mrs Es work benefits such as if she 
was made redundant. 
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable and she couldve cancelled the 
policy if she no longer wanted it.  
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to 
Miss K. I think she wouldve still taken the PPI as it was of value to her. 
And because of this I dont think Miss K is any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by 
Nationwide.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman