DRN-4214217
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc did not do more to help him when he spent 
compulsively on his account in 2021. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances surrounding he complaint, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. In summary, Mr B made a series of gambling transactions between 19 
October 2021 and 7 November 2021 to different merchants who Ill call W, L and V. Mr B 
feels these should be refunded as Santander were aware of his compulsive spending issues 
at the time. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt Santander should refund all of the card 
transactions related to gambling between October and November 2021. And that Santander 
should reduce Mr Bs cash withdrawal limit on his card to zero and pay him £200 
compensation for incorrect information given about this part of the complaint. Santander 
disagreed with this and so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
Base on what I had seen so far, I did not agree that the gambling transactions made by card 
should be refunded. But I did think the compensation should be increased to £350. My 
provisional decision read as follows:
I can see that in 2019, Mr B did provide Santander with a copy of his GamStop certificate as 
part of a separate issue. So, I agree that Santander became aware at that point that Mr B 
had problems with compulsive spending in relation to gambling. At that point, they were 
unable to do much more other than direct Mr B to third party organisations who could offer 
him support. 
Despite Santander saying a future dated card payment block (FDCP) had not been applied 
to Mr Bs account until November 2021, their internal notes suggest one was in place in 
October 2019, as Mr B has confirmed. An FDCP block can be placed against certain 
merchants to prevent future card payments being made to them. However, the block was 
removed on 30 October 2019 and the reason for this is not clear. One internal note from 
Santander states the block was removed by Mr B, however Mr B was surprised it was no 
longer in place in October 2021. 
In any event, Santander has confirmed that these FDCP blocks are primarily designed to be 
used for recurring subscriptions as opposed to an aid for curbing gambling, and that they do 
drop off the account after some time. As the block was placed at least two years prior to the 
transactions Mr B is disputing, I dont think it is unreasonable that they would no longer have 
been in place in October 2021 if they hadnt been removed in October 2019. So, I cant 
agree that Santander has made an error in relation to this.
Looking at the communication notes on Santanders file, I can see there was a conversation 
between Mr B and Santander in October 2020 where his gambling issues were discussed. 
At that point, the advisor explained that Mr B was able to apply a gambling block to his 
account that would prevent him from being able to make payments related to gambling. They 
also encouraged Mr B to discuss his issues with family and friends and to consider 
consulting his doctor. Mr B did not opt to apply the gambling block at that time.
Santander has accepted that they should reasonable have made Mr B aware of the 
gambling block in February 2020 when it became available, as they were aware of his issues 
around gambling. And I agree that this is what I would have expected them to do in the 
circumstances. However, I note that there were no gambling transactions on the account 
between February and October 2020, so I dont think Mr B has been disadvantaged as a 
result of this delay.
As there was no FDCP block on the account and Mr B had not applied a gambling block via 
the app prior to October 2021, I think it was reasonable that Santander did not stop the 
transactions to W between 19 and 23 October 2021. And I dont currently think it would 
therefore be reasonable to ask Santander to refund these. 
I can see that following the transactions, Mr B telephoned Santander to query why the FDCP 
block was no longer on the account. During this conversation, he was reminded about the 
gambling block and I can see he applied the block to his account at that time. Unfortunately, 
as Mr B has pointed out, he was able to remove the block four days later and could begin 
making gambling transactions immediately. I note that Santander has now added a 48-hour 
cooling off period in which no gambling transactions can be made following the removal of 
the block. It is disappointing that this measure was not put in place when it was first 
introduced as it adds an important layer of friction for individuals with compulsive spending 
habits.
Mr B went on to make further gambling transactions and again, based on what Ive seen, as 
there were no blocks on the account, I think it was reasonable that Santander allowed the 
payments to go through. And having looked at Mr Bs general account activity at the time, I 
dont think the spending was so out of character that it should have flagged as suspicious to 
Santander. I can see that Mr B then re-applied the gambling block and also requested that 
FDCP blocks be added for certain merchants, to add additional barriers to his future ability to 
spend compulsively. Which Santander set up for him, as I would have expected them to. 
I can see that after that point, Mr B had a conversation with Santander and explained that he 
felt they should be doing more to help him with his gambling addiction. He asked for his daily 
spending limit on his card to be reduced to £50. However, Santander explained this was not 
possible and took no further action. However, it was possible for Santander at that point to 
reduce Mr Bs daily cash withdrawal limit to either £60 or £0. 
Ultimately, I think that Mr B was looking for additional ways in which Santander could assist 
him when he felt the urge to gamble. I think that during that call, Santander treated his 
request narrowly and didnt effectively tailor support to him as I would have expected. They 
have since agreed to reduce is daily cash withdrawal limit to £0 and I think they could have 
reasonably done this at the end of November 2021 when he raised it initially. It is still unclear 
if the daily cash withdrawal limit has been reduced on all of his accounts. 
I currently think that Santander should ensure this has been completed across all of Mr Bs 
accounts, and that they should pay him £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused when they delayed adding the cash withdrawal limit to his account 
and did not provide him with tailored support as I would have expected. 
Santander responded to my provisional decision and agreed to increase the compensation 
award to £350. 
Mr B responded and provided a large amount of comments and evidence for me to consider. In summary he felt that I had not taken his vulnerabilities into consideration and that 
Santander had a duty to treat him fairly because of his vulnerabilities. He also asked that I 
take the COVID-19 pandemic into consideration. He felt that the relevant blocks should have 
been applied around 27 October when he contacted Santander, and this would have 
prevented the transactions that went out to L and V. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to thank Mr B for taking the time to share his response to my provisional 
decision and for providing the additional evidence to me. Ive carefully considered everything 
he has provided, though I may not comment on every point he has made. Instead, I will 
focus on the points I find to be material to the outcome of Mr Bs complaint. This is not meant 
to be a discourtesy to him and instead is in keeping with our role as an informal dispute 
resolution service. 
Ive firstly considered Mr Bs comments about the COVID-19 pandemic and how it impacted 
the banking industry, as well as him as an individual. On balance, I dont think COVID-19 
and its effects changes my provisional findings as set out above in any way. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that it would have affected any of the blocks that were previously on      
Mr Bs account and, as the transactions in question occurred at the end of 2021, I dont think 
it would have had an impact on the transactions themselves.  
Mr B has queried the contact he had with Santander towards the end of October 2021, which 
was after the transactions that were made to W but before the ones to L and V. To clarify,  
Mr B contacted Santander on 24 October, after he had gambled with W, and he asked why 
the FDCP block was no longer on the account. It was at that time that he was reminded 
about the in-app block he could apply to gambling transactions which he then applied on 25 
October. On balance, I consider that this was a reasonable suggestion that was made by the 
Santander call handler as it allowed Mr B to block gambling transactions, which he did.
The complaint on 27 October that was raised was specifically in relation to the fact 
Santander had not previously advised Mr B that the gambling block was an option for him. 
As a result of this complaint, Mr B was offered £100 compensation, which he says he did not 
accept. I understand that Mr B now has a letter from Santander in which they have said they 
could have escalated this complaint to the financial support team at the time.
However, the notes do not suggest that this was in relation to the FDCP block as Mr B has 
suggested. As explained above, I think the in-app gambling block that was suggested on 24 
October was reasonable and I dont think Santander made an error or needed to do more at 
the time. Unfortunately, Mr B removed the block and was able to gamble straight away, 
which he did on 29 October 2021. But as explained in my provisional decision, as there were 
no blocks on the account, I think it was reasonable that Santander processed these 
transactions as requested. 
I also want to clarify that it was after the transactions had been carried out that Mr B 
requested for his daily withdrawal limit to be reduced to £0. This was on 19 November and 
therefore after the payment to W, L and V so I dont think these transactions would have 
been stopped had Santander assisted him promptly at that time. Especially as they were 
card transactions which would not be affected by the withdrawal limit.Mr B has said that Santander previously refunded gambling transactions in 2019 so should 
have processed the chargebacks as requested in 2021. As this complaint relates to the 2021 
transactions, I havent specifically investigated the 2019 ones. From what I have seen of the 
2021 chargeback requests, I think it was reasonable that Santander declined to continue 
with them. I say this because the transactions did not meet the criteria for a chargeback, as 
they did not fit into one of the categories for a chargeback. So, I dont think Santander made 
an error when they did not continue with the claims. It should be noted that a chargeback is 
part of a voluntary scheme, with no guarantee of a refund. 
Mr B has reiterated that he was not made aware when the FDCP blocks fell off and that 
Santander should have re-applied the blocks or contacted him to let him know they were no 
longer on the account. I explained in my provisional decision that it was unclear why the 
blocks had been removed so I cant safely conclude that Santander should reasonably have 
made Mr B aware they were no longer on the account. As Santander explained, these 
blocks are primarily designed for recurring payments that arent wanted, such as a 
subscription. With this in mind, I think its reasonable that these would not remain on the 
account indefinitely and, on balance, I dont think Santander was required to keep Mr B 
updated about the blocks being on the account. 
Ive finally considered Mr Bs vulnerabilities and I want to thank him for his openness in 
relation to this complaint point. Ive considered this carefully in relation to the gambling 
transactions and whether Santander ought reasonably to have done more in the 
circumstances. Ive considered whether, at each point of contact, more could reasonably 
have been done to assist Mr B with his vulnerabilities in mind.
As mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr B did have a conversation with Santander in 
October 2020 about his gambling issues and Ive considered whether Mr B should have 
been treated different at that point due to his vulnerabilities. I can see the case handler 
advised him of the gambling block that could be applied to his account, and mentioned other 
ways he could get help including talking to friends, family or his local doctor about his issues. 
On balance, this is what I would have expected the call handler to have done in the 
circumstances so I dont reasonably think they should have done more at that time.
The next meaningful point of contact was on 24 October 2021 and Ive already set out in 
more detail what occurred on that date. Mr B was again advised of the gambling block that 
could be applied to the account. While I do think a more detailed conversation could have 
happened, more like the conversation in October 2020, I still think the overall advice given 
was reasonable when keeping in mind Mr Bs vulnerabilities. This gave him the tools to apply 
friction to his compulsive spending which is what I would have expected Santander to do. 
And as set out in my provisional decision, Mr B did take the advice on board and applied the 
gambling block at that time.
And as explained previously, the interaction on 27 October was in relation to Mr B not being 
made aware of the gambling block sooner, and him wanting to raise a complaint about this. 
As this was related to a specific complaint about a specific issue, I dont think Santander 
reasonably needed to do more when keeping in mind Mr Bs vulnerabilities. 
Having carefully considered all of the additional comments and evidence Mr B has provided, 
these have not changed my findings set out in my provisional decision. I do not recommend 
that Santander refund the transactions in question but it has agreed to increase the 
compensation award to £350 and I think is a fair resolution in the circumstances. My final decision
I now direct Santander UK Plc to pay the increased compensation award of £350 to Mr B. I 
do not direct it to refund the disputed transactions..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman