DRN-4468761
The complaint
The estate of Mr C has complained that AXIS Specialty Europe SE (AXIS) unfairly declined 
a claim under a home insurance property.
The executor is represented in this complaint and I will sometimes refer to the 
representative.
What happened
The executor for the estate of Mr C took out an Unoccupied Residential Property Policy to 
provide cover for a property. She later made a claim under the policy following an escape of 
water at the property. AXIS considered the claim and declined to deal with it. It said the 
requirement to have the heating on continuously hadnt been met.
When the executors representative complained, AXIS maintained its decision not to deal 
with the claim, as it said the terms of the policy hadnt been complied with. So, the 
representative complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
she wasnt persuaded the breach of the policy terms was material to the loss or claim. She 
said AXIS should reconsider the claim. 
As AXIS didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 1 November 2023. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The policy included a number of endorsements, two of which were relevant to this claim. 
These were:
10d. Unoccupancy Clause
If the home is unoccupied it is a condition of the policy that you must comply with the 
following:-

2) The water must be switched off at the mains and the water system drained OR the 
heating must be maintained at a minimum 15 degrees centigrade or 58 degrees Fahrenheit 
at all times.
And
20a) Unoccupied Cover (Level 3) Extension 
It is noted that the following cover items are specifically included under the policy cover 
when the home is unoccupied: 
a) cover item 4 Escape of water from and frost damage to fixed water tanks, apparatus or 
pipes however, between the 1st October and 1st April, there is no cover UNLESS the water 
is turned off at the mains and the water drained OR the central heating system is in 
continuous operation to maintain a minimum temperature of 58 degrees Fahrenheit/15 
degrees Celsius at all times
I think the wording is clear about what is required. It isnt disputed that the water wasnt 
turned off and the system drained. However, this wasnt necessary if the heating was on 
continuously. But its accepted that the heating wasnt on continuously. The representative 
told AXIS the heating was on for six hours a day, made up of two hours in the morning, one 
and a half hours in the afternoon and two and a half hours in the evening. So, AXIS said 
there wasnt cover for an escape of water because the endorsements hadnt been complied 
with.
The representative provided AXIS with a statement from a plumber, who said:
From a professional opinion if the heating is programmed to come on 3 times throughout 
the day, evenly spread as it was and for 6 hours in total this should have been sufficient to 
maintain a temperature of 15 degrees centigrade within the house. Especially in the 
bathroom where the burst pipe occurred as this part of the house was upstairs and not 
vulnerable to cold conditions
In my view, this statement lacked sufficient detail to show how the plumber reached his 
opinion that the temperature of the house wouldnt have dropped below 15 degrees during 
the periods when the heating was off, including in December, when the claim for the escape 
of water was made. So, Im not currently persuaded this showed it was unreasonable for 
AXIS to maintain that the escape of water claim wouldnt be considered as the endorsement 
hadnt been complied with.
Im aware the representative also referred to another ombudsmans decision. Each 
complaint is considered individually based on the circumstances of that claim and complaint. 
However, Ive read that decision, including noting that the ombudsman was persuaded the 
heating was on continuously. That is a clear difference to the circumstances Im considering, 
where it is accepted that the heating wasnt on continuously. It was on for six hours a day.
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or 
to require AXIS to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 29 November 2023. Both parties replied before that date.
AXIS confirmed it had nothing further to add.
The representative for the estate of Mr C provided further comments and information. In 
summary:
He disagreed the endorsements highlighted were relevant to the claim. He said they 
would only apply if the escape of water was due to weather conditions causing the 
pipework to burst due to freezing conditions.
He explained again the circumstances of the claim and re-sent the plumbers reports.
He said weather conditions couldnt be a contributing factor in this case as it is 
commonly known that pipes freeze when the temperature drops below 32 degrees 
Fahrenheit/ 0 degrees Celsius.
He provided a weather report that showed the temperature didnt fall below 1.8 degrees 
Celsius. In addition, given the location of the failed pipe, located in an upstairs WC area, 
which was not vulnerable to cold, and evidence the heating was set to come on for six 
hours per day, it was simply impossible for those weather conditions to have impacted 
the pipework.
He said again that the endorsements should not be applied to any claim decision by the 
insurer as they were not relevant to the cause of damage which occurred at the property.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. As part of that Ive considered the comments from the representative, but these 
dont change my view. 
I dont think it would be fair for me to decide the endorsements werent relevant to the claim. 
The endorsements described the conditions that needed to be met for there to be cover for 
any escape of water, not just ones that involved frozen pipes. If the terms werent complied 
with, there was no cover for an escape of water. There were two ways to comply with the 
endorsement. One was to turn off the water at the mains and drain the system. The other 
was for the heating to be on continuously to maintain a temperature of 15 degrees at all 
times. It isnt disputed that the water was on and that the heating wasnt on continuously. If 
the policyholders didnt want to have the heating on the whole time, they could have turned 
off the water and drained the system, as allowed under the endorsement. I cant say what 
difference that would have made to the claim, as that didnt happen.
The representative also said the weather conditions couldnt be a contributing factor. Im not 
persuaded that is necessarily true. He provided weather data for the period 19 to 25 
December 2022, which showed the temperature didnt drop below 0 degrees. I assume this 
was an error, as the reported date of discovery was listed as 16 December 2022, although I 
also note a reference to it being on or around 18 December 2022. Ive looked at 
temperatures local to the property for the whole of December 2022. Between 6 and 18 
December 2022, on most days the temperature dropped below zero degrees. Although the 
representative said the pipe was protected due to its location and also, again, provided the 
evidence from a plumber which included a statement that said the heating being on for six 
hours was enough to maintain the property at 15 degrees, I am not persuaded there was 
sufficient detail to show how these opinions were reached and were therefore reasonable to 
rely on.
So, having thought carefully about this complaint again, I remain of the view it was fair for 
AXIS to decline the claim on the basis that the endorsement wasnt complied with. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXIS to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman