DRN-3130827
The complaint
Mr W complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly declined a terminal illness claim 
made for his wife Mrs W under a life assurance policy. Most of our services contact has 
been with Mrs W.
What happened
In 2003 Mr W took out a life assurance policy, and his wife Mrs W was the life assured. The 
policy would pay a benefit if Mrs W died or became terminally ill. The policys terminal illness 
definition said Terminal illness benefit will be payable where, other than within the eighteen 
months prior to the Expiry Date, the Life Assured is diagnosed as suffering from an 
advanced or rapidly progressing and incurable condition (the Terminal Illness) which is, in 
the opinion of the companys medical adviser, such that the life expectancy of the Life 
Assured is no greater than twelve months from the date the condition is notified to the 
Company by the Policyholder. The policy also included premium protection benefit. 
Unfortunately, Mrs W was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in May 2020. She began 
chemotherapy in June 2020, and Mr W made a terminal illness claim with Aviva for Mrs W 
soon after. In July 2020 Aviva asked Mrs Ws consultant oncologist for a medical report, 
which it received in September 2020. After considering the report and other medical 
evidence Mrs W had provided, Aviva said it would wait for the outcome of Mrs Ws treatment 
before making a claim decision. 
Mrs W said that after chemotherapy, she insisted on surgical treatment which she then had 
in January 2021. In February 2021 Aviva declined the claim. It thought Mrs W didnt meet the 
policys terminal illness definition because her surgery was successful, and so her condition 
wasnt rapidly progressing and her life expectancy wasnt twelve months or less. But Aviva 
offered to consider whether the policys premium protection benefit was payable. 
Mr and Mrs W asked Aviva to reconsider. Aviva didnt change its position regarding the 
terminal illness claim but said it would reconsider if things changed whilst the policy was in 
place. And Aviva said it would pay the premium protection benefit and waive the policys 
deferral period for this, so it would refund the premiums Mr W had paid from 22 May 2020.
Mr W and Mrs W remained unhappy and contacted our service. They noted Aviva had 
agreed to pay premium protection benefit. But said it had unfairly declined the terminal 
illness claim, as the September 2020 consultant report said Mrs Ws life expectancy was 
twelve months, so shed then met the policys terminal illness definition but Aviva ignored 
this. They said the outcome of Mrs Ws condition would have been worse if not for her 
determination and explained the distress and worry theyd been through. They wanted Aviva 
to change its policy wording, as it didnt mention waiting to see how the life assured would 
respond to treatment. And they suggested the policy was mis-sold to Mr W. 
Our investigator thought Aviva was reasonable to wait for the outcome of Mrs Ws treatment, 
and had fairly concluded she didnt meet the policys terminal illness definition.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They again said the policy was mis-sold and that Mrs Ws 
consultant gave a life expectancy of twelve months. They thought Aviva would have paid the 
claim if not for Mrs Ws determination to have surgery. And said there was a delay in Aviva 
getting the consultants report - and if the report was written sooner, it would have said 
Mrs Ws life expectancy was three to six months without chemotherapy and twelve months 
with chemotherapy. But the delay meant the report was completed part way through Mrs Ws 
chemotherapy so they had an idea of her response to it.  
Aviva said it hadnt caused delays regarding the report and disagreed any delay led it to 
decline an otherwise valid claim, as its claim decision wasnt based just on the September 
2020 consultant report but also on June 2020 hospital records that said Mrs W was starting 
chemotherapy and her diagnosis couldnt be definitively classified as terminal. 
Our investigator thought our service couldnt consider whether the policy was mis-sold, as 
Mr W would first need to complain to the business that sold him the policy. He said Aviva 
hadnt delayed the report and any delays didnt change the outcome here, because it was 
reasonable that a terminal illness claim wouldnt be payable until treatment options were 
exhausted. And he thought Aviva hadnt done anything wrong by waiving the policys 
premium protection deferral period. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of Mrs Ws diagnosis and health difficulties, and I acknowledge they 
have caused her and her family a great deal of distress and worry. But Im not upholding this 
complaint. I realise my decision will be very disappointing to Mr and Mrs W at an already 
upsetting and difficult time. But Ill explain my reasons.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs W think this policy may have been mis-sold. But thats not 
something Im considering in this decision, because Ive not seen that Mr W has raised that 
complaint point with the business that sold him the policy. So Mr W would first need to 
complain to that business about the sale so it has the opportunity to address it. If Mr W is 
unhappy with its response, he may then bring his mis-sale complaint to our service for an 
impartial investigation.
I also note Mr and Mrs W told us Aviva is paying the premium protection benefit and waiving 
the deferral period for this. I think they mention this as information only rather than as 
something they are unhappy about. So I dont think I need to comment on it in this decision. 
But if Mr W is unhappy about how Aviva have paid the premium protection benefit, then hed 
again need to complain to Aviva in the first instance and Ive not seen that this is something 
Mr W has done.
In any case, the crux of this complaint is whether Aviva was fair and reasonable to say 
Mrs W didnt meet the policys terminal illness definition. To think about this, Ive considered 
Mrs Ws medical records.
A letter from the hospital oncology department to Mrs Ws general practitioner (GP) dated 
16 June 2020 said Mrs Ws tumour isnt currently amenable for surgical treatment. But 
Mrs W would receive chemotherapy with the aim of shrinking the tumour so they could 
consider surgery in future, though the likelihood was small. It noted Mrs W had asked 
whether this was a terminal diagnosis but said this couldnt be definitively classed as a terminal diagnosis for insurance purposes as Mrs W needed to be scanned to see if there 
was metastatic disease (in other words, if the cancer had spread) and to start her 
chemotherapy treatment, which had the aim of a cure albeit the chances of this were small. 
The report Mrs Ws consultant prepared for Aviva in September 2020 said Mrs W started 
chemotherapy in June 2020 and recently completed her sixth cycle, with twelve cycles 
planned in total. That a scan in August 2020 showed the cancer had reduced and following a 
multidisciplinary meeting, Mrs W would continue chemotherapy and there would be further 
discussion after her next scan. The report said Mrs W was tolerating chemotherapy 
reasonably well and the plan was to continue it, although there was a small chance there 
would ultimately be sufficient tumour reduction for surgery to be considered, and the 
likelihood of that surgery achieving long term disease free status was very low. So Mrs W 
should be considered incurable. The report estimated the median survival from diagnosis 
was approximately twelve months. But said Mrs W was likely to do a bit better than the 
average patient with this condition, since her first scan after starting chemotherapy showed a 
response to treatment, and she was tolerating chemotherapy reasonably well without the 
need for significant dose reduction.
A November 2020 scan found no metastases and a further reduction in the cancer. And 
notes from a multidisciplinary meeting in December 2020 said Mrs W had a good response 
to treatment and surgery should be considered. Mrs W was referred to a surgeon, and shes 
told us the surgery took place in January 2021. Mrs W said the surgeon was pleased with 
how it went but cant guarantee that it cant come back, and shes having further 
chemotherapy to remove any cancer cells that were left behind during surgery. 
So the medical evidence shows that at the beginning of Mrs Ws treatment, it was thought 
chemotherapy was unlikely to shrink the cancer enough to make surgical treatment possible. 
I appreciate what Mrs W says about the uncertainty and worry she faced, and her 
determination in pursuing treatment. And I see the September 2020 consultant report says 
the median life expectancy of someone with this condition is twelve months. But the 
consultant also thought Mrs W would do better than that given her particular circumstances. 
And the medical evidence shows she responded well to chemotherapy and ultimately had 
the surgery that initially seemed unlikely to be possible. From what Mrs W has said, the 
surgery went well albeit this is something Mrs W is still recovering from. 
I know Mr and Mrs W think Aviva was wrong to see how Mrs W responded to treatment 
before deciding the claim, as her policy documents dont mention this and they think Aviva 
should change its policy wording. But the purpose of policy documents is to set out what 
events are covered and under what circumstances a claim can be paid - I wouldnt expect 
them to set out a businesss internal claims handling process. And I think its reasonable for 
Aviva to have looked broadly at the whole of Mrs Ws condition and treatment, not just to 
focus on how things stood at one particular point in time.
I hope it helps if I explain that terminal illness cover isn't a separate benefit under the policy. 
Instead, it's an advance of the death benefit, which allows for a payment to be made early if 
the insurer thinks the life assured has met the policy's definition of terminal illness. And at 
the time this claim was submitted to Aviva, Mrs W was at the very start of her treatment. The 
June 2020 letter from Mrs Ws hospital oncology department notes this couldnt be 
definitively classed as a terminal diagnosis because, essentially, Mrs W needed to be 
scanned and start her treatment first. So in these particular circumstances I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to wait and see how Mrs W responded to that treatment. 
And the medical evidence and Mrs Ws testimony shows she responded to treatment better 
than it was initially thought she might. Based the evidence Ive been provided with, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude in February 2021 that Mrs Ws condition wasnt rapidly 
progressing and her life expectancy wasnt twelve months or less. 
Mr and Mrs W think Aviva caused a delay in getting the report from Mrs Ws consultant. 
They say they submitted the claim to Aviva on 22 June 2020. Avivas records show it asked 
the consultant for a report on 15 July 2020, and that it then regularly chased the consultants 
secretary until it received the completed report on 24 September 2020. Therefore, Im 
satisfied Aviva isnt responsible for any delay regarding the report, because it requested the 
report in a reasonable time and made reasonable efforts to chase it. 
Mr and Mrs W also think that if the report was written sooner, it would have said her life 
expectancy was three to six months without chemotherapy and twelve months with 
chemotherapy. But I cant agree. Because, as Ive said, the oncology departments letter of 
June 2020 said Mrs Ws diagnosis couldnt definitively be classed as terminal as she needed 
to be scanned and start chemotherapy. And the consultants September 2020 report said 
they thought Mrs W would do better than median survival of twelve months. 
Taking everything into account, I think Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in declining this 
terminal illness claim in February 2021. However, it has said it will reconsider if things 
change, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, and I think thats fair and reasonable 
too. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman