DRN-4255153
The complaint
Mr B1 and Mr B2 complain that they received no notification from Godiva Mortgages Limited 
when the fixed interest rate on their Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage ended. They said Godiva 
should refund the higher interest it had applied, and waive charges on a different mortgage.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr B1 and Mr B2, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr B1. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr B1 said hed been a customer of Godiva for some time, and had more than one mortgage 
with them. He said he contacted Godiva about something else, and discovered the fixed 
interest rate period on his BTL mortgage had ended. Hed been paying the Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR) for some months. 
Mr B1 said Godiva claimed to have written to him, but he said because of postal issues at 
his address, he didnt get the letters. And he didnt notice otherwise, because there was no 
change to his monthly payment. So he didnt realise around £400 more of his payment each 
month was being used to pay interest. 
Mr B1 said he complained, saying Godiva should have emailed too, but Godiva said it hadnt 
held an email address for him at the time. Mr B1 said it did have an email address, on 
another mortgage that it held for him. He said Godiva hadnt tried to contact Mr B2 either. 
And it didnt change the payments it was taking, so hed notice. 
Mr B1 said Godiva accepted there had been a communication breakdown, but wouldnt offer 
him the fixed interest rate he could have secured in May 2022, or any goodwill payment 
towards the extra mortgage interest he had been charged. Mr B1 thought Godiva acted 
deliberately to avoid alerting him to the change in interest rates. 
Mr B1 said he couldnt afford the cost of the mortgage products then available to him, so 
hed borrowed, mainly from family, to clear the mortgage. He said even after he repaid, 
Godiva didnt release the charge on the property for three months. Again, it said it had 
written to him, and he didnt get the letters. 
Godiva didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had written to Mr B1 and Mr B2, at 
the address it held for them, on 11 January and 21 February to tell them that the fixed 
interest rate on this mortgage would expire at the end of April. It wrote on 19 April telling 
them what the new interest rate would be. 
Godiva said it then wrote again after the fixed rate period ended, on 18 May, to tell them 
about another interest rate change following an increase to the Bank of England base rate. 
Godiva said it notifies its customers about the end of their fixed rate products by letter, and it 
relies on the postal service to deliver these letters. 
Godiva said if Mr B1 wanted to redeem this mortgage, it would backdate this by a couple of 
weeks, to the start of that month. But it wouldnt refund the interest it had charged, and it 
wouldnt remove the early repayment charge on the other mortgage held with it. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Godiva had previously 
written to Mr B1 to tell him about the end of the fixed interest rate on this mortgage in 
December 2015, March 2017 and January and February 2019. Each time Mr B1 returned a 
signed form, fixing his BTL mortgage interest rate for a further period. So he thought Mr B1 
knew to expect a letter about this.
Our investigator said Godiva told Mr B1 about when his latest fixed rate would end when he 
took that product, in 2019. And it then wrote to him again telling him the rate was about to 
expire, three times in early 2022, before the rate did expire. Our investigator didnt think 
Godiva also had to email or call. He said it did what it had done before, and Mr B1 should 
have been aware that this was Godivas process. 
Our investigator said Mr B1 didnt notice the change in interest rates, because he had a 
sizeable monthly overpayment set up on this mortgage. Our investigator hadnt seen any 
reason why Godiva shouldnt have left that overpayment in place. And he didnt think Godiva 
had to do anything to put things right here.
Our investigator said he hadnt looked at what happened when this mortgage was 
redeemed, because Mr B1 hadnt yet complained to Godiva about that. 
Mr B1 disagreed. He said Godiva didnt use the details it held for him on another mortgage 
to contact him and also didnt try to contact the other person named on the mortgage, Mr B2. 
Mr B1 said he shouldnt have to rely on the product notification from three years previously 
to tell him about the maturity date for his fixed rate mortgage. He said processes change, 
and here Godiva couldnt show the letters were received. He said surely Godiva would have 
sent recorded delivery letters if it received no reply? 
Mr B1 said his overpayment was a contractual agreement, so he thought that would also 
have expired when his fixed interest rate ended, and Godiva should have cancelled that too. 
When our investigator didnt change his mind, Mr B1 asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. So it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I dont think our investigator has suggested that Mr B1 needed to rely on a notification about 
the end date of his fixed rate mortgage which was given to him some three years earlier, at 
the start of the mortgage. He only noted that Mr B1 was made aware of this at the time. But 
he also said Godiva wrote to Mr B1 and Mr B2, at the address it had been given for them, 
three times in total before their mortgage interest rate changed. 
Like our investigator, I think Godiva did do enough to let Mr B1 and Mr B2 know about this 
change to the mortgage. I think its reasonable for Godiva to have assumed, in this case, 
that Mr B1 would have received the correspondence it sent. So I dont think it also had to 
send letters by recorded delivery, or to email or call. And I would have said the same here even if Godiva had held both a phone number and an email for Mr B1, directly linked to this 
mortgage. 
In the current market, not all mortgage customers are choosing to refix their mortgage 
interest rates right away. So, even though Mr B1 had always done that before, I dont think 
Godiva ought to have realised that these letters hadnt been received, just because it 
received no response. And I havent seen anything else to make me think that Godiva had 
been made aware of problems with correspondence reaching Mr B1 at the address hed 
given it. 
I dont think Godiva has to pay back the higher interest that was charged on this mortgage 
while it was on the SVR. I understand Mr B1 was disappointed to find that a larger part of his 
overpayment was being used to pay interest on this mortgage, but I dont think its Godivas 
fault that he didnt realise this earlier. 
As our investigator noted, Mr B1 hasnt complained to Godiva that it should have ended his 
overpayment when his fixed rate ended, or about what happened when he redeemed his 
mortgage, so I wont look at those issues here. 
I know Mr B1 will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B1 and Mr B2 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman