DRN-3034023
The complaint
Miss M, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says that not enough checks were carried out, and Morses did not ask to 
see her bank statements to make the right checks before lending. 
What happened
Morses has provided us with information on four loans. They are set out in the table below 
but the first one, effectively, was withdrawn or cancelled as it was refunded the same day it 
was approved. No repayments were taken for that loan. Another loan was issued on the 
same day to Miss M. We have no explanation for this but to reflect the fact that effectively 
Miss M took three loans (not four) I have adapted the loan table used by our adjudicator. The 
cancelled/withdrawn loan shows here in italics. 
Loan Date Taken Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount Date 
RepaidHighest Combined 
Weekly Repayment
Cancelled or 
withdrawn12/01/2017 £200 n/a n/a
first 12/01/2017 20 x £15 £200.00 19/04/2017 £15.00
middle 05/04/2017 33 x £7.50 £150.00 Debt Sold
last 19/04/2017 20 x £15 £200.00 Debt Sold £22.50
Morses records show that payments by Miss M stopped for the last two loans around 
October 2017 and they were transferred to its debt collector around March 2018.
After Miss M had complained, Morses wrote to her with its final response letter (FRL) in 
which it agreed that better checks ought to have been carried out for the last loan issued on 
19 April 2017. Is said it would put things right for her. That resolution outcome has been 
clarified by our adjudicator and translates to mean that-
Morses will contact the third party to reduce her outstanding balance on the last loan 
to what would effectively be £65. This figure comes from the fact that Morses will 
remove the £100 interest charged on that loan, and recalculate the account using the 
£135 payments Miss M has already made to it. That means having paid £135 
towards that last loan of £200, Miss M would be left with £65 to repay; and
it would instruct that third party to amend Miss Ms credit file for that last loan to 
remove any adverse payment information immediately; and
once repaid, Morses would ensure that the third party removes the last loan from her 
credit file.
Morses explained to Miss M in its FRL that the middle loan remained with that third party and 
a balance remained to pay on it. 
Miss M did not agree with that resolution and so her representative referred it to this Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Morses resolution was fair 
and that it did not need to do more.  
Miss M did not agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Morses needed to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it 
should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss M could repay the loans in 
a sustainable manner.
 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
As I explained earlier in this decision, the January 2017 loan was the first effective loan after 
the earlier one on the same day seems to have been withdrawn or cancelled. I make no 
findings on the one which was withdrawn or cancelled because Miss M suffered no loss as 
no repayments were made by her to that loan.  The income and expenditure amounts declared to Morses when Miss M applied for that first 
loan in January 2017, lead me to conclude that Morses would have thought that Miss M was 
able to afford the £15 a week repayment cost. It was the first, effective loan in the 
relationship between her and Morses, it was for a relatively modest sum and for a relatively 
short term of 20 weeks. At that stage in the lending relationship, Morses was acting 
proportionately to rely on the information it was given by Miss M. I do not think it needed to 
do more. So, I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint about the January 2017 loan. 
The middle loan was taken just before Miss M repaid the first one in April 2017. And the 
figures I have seen for Miss Ms income and expenditure are much the same. And for a 
second loan, albeit with a small anticipated overlap with the first loan which still had a few 
more weeks to run, I do not think it would have led to Morses thinking Miss M could not 
afford it. 
I know that Miss M thinks that Morses ought to have done more  such as review her bank 
account statements - but that would have been disproportionate. I would not have expected 
Morses to do more than it did. I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint about the middle loan.
Morses has agreed to put things right in relation to the last loan and so I endorse that 
outcome. It was offered to Miss M in its FRL in January 2021, means that there is nothing for 
me to direct Morses to do. Morses has told us it will do what it said it would do in the FRL 
(including the later clarifications given to our adjudicator about the credit file amendments 
and removal when repaid). 
I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint and endorse the resolution 
outcome for the last loan made by Morses. If Miss M accepts this decision them she should 
be considered to have accepted the offer Morses made in its FRL. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman