DRN-2096507
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited administered the renewal 
and cancellation of his motor insurance policy. He would like £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset he was caused. 
The details of the complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When Mr Ss late wife passed away, Admiral arranged for insurance to be placed in 
his name. It didnt however tell him his policy was being placed under the Admiral 
brand instead of Diamond. This caused Mr S some confusion when he received the 
policy documentation.
Mr Ss letter querying his renewal price wasnt logged correctly by Admiral which 
means he didnt receive a prompt response. 
Admiral chose to price match the cost of his late wifes policy when placing the 
insurance into Mr Ss name in 2019. This was explained to Mr S when the insurance 
was placed but its understandable, given the timing, why he may not recall this. 
However, this did mean the renewal price for the policy, which was then based on the 
correct rating factors, seemed very high when compared to the previous year.  Its 
understandable why Mr S questioned this, but from what I have seen, Admiral have 
explained this to Mr S correctly.
We generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat 
customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. So, I dont think Admiral 
was wrong in quoting Mr Ss renewal price based on the factors that related to him. I 
can see its agent offered to reduce the cost of the renewal price by providing an 
additional discount and reducing the mileage the policy was based on when they 
spoke to Mr S. 
While Mr S had said he didnt want the policy to auto renew when he queried the 
renewal price. Given the short time between Admiral providing its response and 
Mr Ss renewal date, Admiral explained it would keep the policy running so Mr S had 
continuous insurance. However, it said it would delay the payment for 14 days, so 
Mr S had time to decide what he wished to do. I think this was a reasonable action to 
take.
Mr S chose not to accept the renewal and cancelled his policy by sending a letter. 
This wasnt received by Admiral, in the correct department, until after the payment 
was taken from his card. Admiral arranged for the premium to be refunded in full to 
Mr Ss credit card. I realise it would have been a shock to Mr S to realise the 
payment had been taken and it meant he couldnt clear the balance of his credit card 
in full as he usually did. Hes also explained he had to make several phone calls at 
this time. But, while I appreciate this, I cant say Admiral did anything wrong here, it 
followed its usual process and there werent any undue delays in the letter being 
passed between departments. 
Admiral offered Mr S £30 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset hed been 
caused by not telling him his policy was placed with Admiral and not responding to 
his first letter promptly. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount, so I wont be 
asking Admiral to make any further payment. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman