DRN-3328170
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to register a complaint.
What happened
Mr A says he attended a Barclays branch as requested by it, but a decision had been made 
to close his account. He says he accepts the compensation, for that part of his complaint of 
£250, was appropriate but says he should be paid further compensation for Barclays 
refusing to register a complaint at the time. Mr A says that failure to register a complaint is a 
breach of the regulations.
Barclays accepts it ought to have registered a complaint and has apologised. It has paid 
£250 compensation for the branch attendance issue.
Mr A had brought his complaint to us and our investigator agreed Barclays should have 
allowed a complaint to be made but thought overall the compensation was appropriate.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and maintains he should receive further compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it to do anything further. I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed 
by my decision.
There is no need for me to comment on large parts of this complaint as I can see Mr A has 
accepted the compensation offer and seeks an ombudsmans decision on the narrow issue 
of Barclays refusal to register his complaint when he attended its branch.
I appreciate Mr A says that refusal was a breach of the regulations. But we are not Barclays 
regulator or a court and its not our role to decide if there has been such a breach and we 
cant fine or punish a business. Our role is to decide if Barclays treated Mr A fairly or made a 
mistake. There is no question here that Barclays did act unfairly and ought to have 
registered a complaint.
Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly apologised for its mistake and has paid overall 
compensation of £250. I dont think additional compensation is justified here for failing to 
register the complaint and can see that Mr A was able to bring his complaint to us. It follows 
that I dont think Barclays mistake had a significant impact and I dont think Mr A suffered 
any financial loss as a result of that mistake. Im also satisfied that Mr A would have and did 
complain to us in any event regardless of if a complaint had been registered or not.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays has apologised for what took place and paid a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to 
resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman