DRN-3193430
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their travel insurance 
claim.
All reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B booked their holiday at the beginning of February 2020. On 10 February 2020, 
they took out their single trip travel insurance policy through a broker/agent. Mr and Mrs Bs 
intended departure dates were from 16 to 26 April 2020.The policy is underwritten by Great 
Lakes. 
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
international travel. 
On 23 March 2020, the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, 
commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction 
to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
On 27 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Bs flight provider suspended their flights to their intended 
destination. Their trip was therefore cancelled. Mr and Mrs B managed to recover the cost of 
their accommodation but didnt manage to get a refund for the flights or the visas theyd paid 
for. So, they submitted a claim with their insurer, Great Lakes. It responded on 1 June 2020, 
assessed the claim but declined it. Great Lakes said the situation Mr and Mrs B found 
themselves in wasnt covered under the cancellation section their policy. Unhappy with Great 
Lakes response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He said Mr and Mrs Bs policy didnt provide 
cover for cancelling a holiday due to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel. He 
explained the reasons for cancellation are not covered as listed, insured events under their 
policy. And its also likely that the overall general exclusion on the policy, for travel against 
FCDO advice on all but essential travel, would apply in any case.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So 
its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for 
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it 
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict application of the 
policy terms and conditions. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
Great Lakes to do it here. Ill explain why.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. It summarises the cover available and, on page 2 
of the IPID on this complaint, it states:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.
The policy terms and conditions say, on page 39 and 41: 
General exclusions [...] No section of this policy shall apply in respect of: [...]
24. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing 
body have advised against all, or all but essential travel.
The key facts document
Ive also seen the key facts document relevant to Mr and Mrs Bs policy. This document 
highlights the significant conditions and exclusions on the policy. On page 2, it says:
FCO & WHO directive
You are not covered to cancel or cut short your trip as a result of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or other 
regulatory authority issuing a directive against all but essential travel to/from your 
travel destination for reasons other than earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, unless 
you have the Optional Travel Disruption cover added to your travel policy.
And I think this document is clear and transparent explaining that cover for cancellation due 
to changes in FCDO advice is only available in the event of an earthquake, fire, flood or 
hurricane. So, I think it was for Mr and Mrs B to decide what level of cover they wanted to 
buy on their policy. 
The policy terms and conditions
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Great Lakes obligations 
under its contract with Mr and Mrs B are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions 
which are set out in the policy. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy.In the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Bs policy booklet - Section 1, page 15, sets out 
what is covered in the event of a trip being cancelled and provides a list of reasons:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have 
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of 
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or 
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or 
advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under 
current legislation applicable within your home country.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, 
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours 
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all 
but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or 
hurricane.
The FCDO did advise against all but essential travel when Mr and Mrs Bs trip was 
cancelled, but this was due to the Covid-19 global pandemic  rather than due to an 
earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane. So, the situation Mr and Mrs B found themselves in isnt 
one of the specific listed, insured events under the cancellation section of their policy. 
Therefore, I cant see they have cover, in this instance, under their policy.
Additionally, I can see the cancellation section of the policy specifically excludes cover for:
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or 
amendment of the booked trip due to Government action.
It's difficult to say with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs B's claim. A 
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions 
in the UK as well as in the country they were intending to travel to  are all likely to have 
impacted to some degree on the decision to cancel the trip. But what's clear is that, at the 
time Mr and Mrs B cancelled, travel restrictions were in force. And when Mr and Mrs B 
cancelled their trip, they referred to restrictions on travel to their intended destination 
because of flights being suspended due to Covid-19 and therefore not being able to travel as 
planned. So, not only is the reason for the cancellation of the holiday not covered as a listed 
insured event, I think the exclusion I've quoted above applies to the circumstances of this 
claim anyway. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but I dont think their 
claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy and I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their claim.
Should the claim be against the broker?Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that the claim has been incorrectly registered and considered 
against the underwriter (Great Lakes, in this case). I also acknowledge their comments 
which challenge the broker/agents interpretation and use of the policy wording in declining 
the claim. However, I confirm that Great Lakes is the underwriter of their policy and therefore 
any claim for cancellation under their policy would be made and considered by Great Lakes 
rather than the broker/agent with whom they took their policy. When a claim is made under 
an insurance policy, its the responsibility of the underwriter to assess that claim  not the 
responsibility of the broker/agent. Im satisfied the claim has been considered correctly by 
the underwriter - Great Lakes, in this complaint.
I also acknowledge their comments which challenge the broker/agents interpretation and 
use of the policy wording in declining the claim. Ive taken into account Great Lakes 
communication on why the claim has been declined. Im satisfied that the cancellation 
section of Mr and Mrs Bs policy doesnt include a listed, insured event which provides cover 
for the situation Mr and Mrs B found themselves in. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs comments 
about the policy wording, but the crux of the issue here is that Mr and Mrs B cancelled their 
trip due to reasons Ive explained above (albeit they use the word abandoned rather than 
cancelled). Their claim has been considered under the cancellation section of their policy 
and unfortunately, in the circumstances of their complaint, the reason for their cancellation 
isnt an event thats covered under the policy.
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim. It follows that I dont think Great Lakes 
needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Great 
Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman