DRN-3214903
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions made from his account
that he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr B noticed several transactions to a merchant for gaming services. Mr B also had an
account with the merchant who Ill refer to as J. Mr B has said that one of his relatives was
visiting him at home and used his gaming console. His relative made several transactions 
through the console where Mr B had stored his debit card details. Mr B has said he didnt 
give permission for these transactions to be made.
The transactions were all for credits within a particular game and took place over four
different days spanning a week. The transactions took place at different hours of the day, but
some were after midnight. Mr B has explained that he also played the same game and had
previously made purchases whilst playing it. He also confirmed that he didnt have any
controls enabled on the gaming console to stop others from using his card.
Mr B notified Lloyds about them and they gave Mr B a temporary refund while they looked
into the matter. Lloyds then explained to Mr B that because the transactions to J were for
services that had been supplied, they couldnt challenge the payments. Lloyds told Mr B that
they would take the refund back in a couple of weeks, which they did.
Mr B was unhappy that Lloyds had failed to refund him and made a complaint to them.
Lloyds looked into the situation and told Mr B that they wouldnt refund the money, but they
did recognise theyd given Mr B the wrong information when theyd told Mr B that they would
challenge the transactions. Lloyds offered £150 to compensate Mr B for this.
Mr B was unhappy with how Lloyds dealt with his situation and brought his complaint to our
service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought
that Mr B had authorised the transactions because hed allowed his relative to use the
machine with the debit card details stored on it. Our investigator described this as apparent
authority.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review, stressing that
he hadnt given permission to use the gaming console or make any transactions on it. Mr B
explained that his console was kept in his bedroom on the top floor of a three-story house
and hed only let his relative use the living room on the second floor and was unaware that it
was being used.
The complaint has now been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its in agreement that the transactions took place, what Mr B is complaining about is that he
didnt authorise the transactions and should therefore receive a refund.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Lloyds have supplied evidence that
shows Mr Bs debit card was used to make the transactions and Im satisfied the evidence
shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Lloyds and Mr B agreed to use the card for transactions.
For example, when entering the card details into a merchants website, Lloyds agree to
accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another
approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used the
genuine card details, and Mr B has confirmed that hed previously entered them onto his
gaming console to make purchases with J. So, Im satisfied that consent was given and the
disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be
appropriate for Lloyds to hold Mr B responsible, for example if the card or its details were
used without his permission.
Mr B has explained that a relative, who was 14 at the time, was visiting him and used his
gaming console without his permission. He then went on to make ten transactions through
the console, using the card details stored on it by Mr B. These transactions were all for the
same game which Mr B also plays.
Looking at the spread and number of transactions, it appears that Mr Bs relative was playing
the game for some considerable time over the four days. The transactions were made during
the morning, later in the afternoon /early evening and a few after midnight. Mr B has said he
didnt give permission for his relative to use the console, only to use the living room on the
second floor of his house.
Mr B has also explained that his console is kept in his bedroom on the third floor, and he
hadnt given permission for his relative to use the console, or to make any purchases using
the console. Our investigator thought that Mr B had given apparent authority because he
believed that Mr B had allowed his relative to use the console, but Mr B later corrected this
belief and confirmed that he hadnt allowed him to use it all.
I examined the transaction audit log for these payments, and they indicate that Mr Bs
relative was using the game for some considerable time, and presumably the extent of the
purchases was to allow greater use of the game which would indicate it was used
extensively when visiting. I find it surprising that Mr B didnt realise his relative was using his
game considering the amount of time he was playing it and a few of the transactions were
made at 01:25 in the morning. I find it unlikely that Mr B wasnt aware that his relative was
using the console, particularly as hes told us that its kept in his bedroom.
There are also undisputed transactions made to J on the same days that Mr B was disputing
payments. One undisputed transaction was made at midnight, but a disputed transaction
was then made an hour and a half later. I dont think its likely that Mr B would be in his
bedroom at midnight making a purchase, to then leave it and not notice that his relative was
then using the console at that time in the morning.
Taking everything into account I think it more likely than not that Mr B was responsible for
the transactions and I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to hold him liable for them. My
current thinking is that I wont be upholding this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Lloyds didnt have anything further to add and Mr B clarified that he hadnt stored his details 
on the console, but they were automatically stored when hed made a previous purchase. Mr 
B thought that the provisional decision was based on trying to disprove what he said rather 
than help him.
Id like to clarify the role of our service, which is to give an unbiased decision based on the 
evidence and where thats missing or there are conflicting versions of what happened, as 
there sometimes are, its to assess the most likely version of the events. I understand Mr B is 
unhappy with the provisional decision, but my findings are based on an impartial review of 
the evidence provided by both parties. 
The reason I havent relied on the apparent authority principle is that Mr B later told us, 
after the investigator had issued their outcome, that he hadnt allowed his relative to use the 
console at all. This is different to not allowing him to make any purchases because the 
details of his card were automatically stored on the console. 
So, when Ive looked at the timings of the payments and what Mr B has told us, I made a 
finding that I think its unlikely that he was unaware his relative was using the console and 
this leads me to the belief that I think Mr B was more likely than not responsible for the 
transactions. 
I say that because if Mr B had denied his relative access to the console  he would probably 
have noticed that he was using it because of the timings of some of the payments and the 
location of the console, as Ive already explained. But thats not what Mr B has said  hes 
claimed that because he didnt allow him to use it he shouldnt be held responsible for any 
transactions made on the console because the payment details were stored on it without his 
knowledge. This would indicate that Mr B was unaware that his relative was using it and as 
Ive set out in my provisional decision, I dont think thats likely.  
Having reviewed Mr Bs comments, I havent seen anything that would change my 
provisional decision which Im now adopting as my final decision and I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman