DRN-2476748
Complaint
Mr F has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) irresponsibly provided him with 
an unaffordable guarantor loan. 
He says that he shouldnt have been given the loan as he had financial difficulties as well as 
a gambling addiction. 
  
Background
TFS Loans provided Mr F with a guarantor loan in April 2013. The loan was for £5,000 and it 
was due to be repaid in 54 instalments of £227.81. The total amount to be repaid was 
£12,370.74, which included broker and lender fees totalling £1,114.00.
One of our investigators considered Mr Fs complaint. He told TFS Loans that the checks it 
carried out before providing Mr F with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and if 
such checks had been carried out it would have seen that it Mr F wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments. So he thought that TFS Loans shouldnt have provided 
Mr F with this loan and upheld the complaint. 
TFS Loans disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
The regulatory framework
TFS Loans provided Mr F with this loan in the period up to the end of March 2014. During 
this time it needed a standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), in order to 
carry out consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1) In determining whether an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes 
of this section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be 
relevant including (amongst other things)
(a) the applicant's skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer 
credit businesses, consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit 
businesses;
(b) such skills, knowledge and experience of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him 
under the licence;
(c) practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
(d) evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the 
applicant's employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, 
where the applicant is a body corporate, any person appearing to the OFT to 
be a controller of the body corporate or an associate of any such person, has
(a) committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty or violence;
(b) contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 so far as it 
relates to the consumer credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
(c) contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds to 
a provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d) practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or 
national origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; 
or
(e) engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful 
or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful or 
not) [my emphasis].
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper include practices in the carrying 
on of a consumer credit business that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce clear guidance on the test for irresponsible 
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
in Mr Fs case.
The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business practices that the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper business practices which, if engaged in by a consumer credit 
business, could call into consideration its fitness to hold a consumer credit licence.Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which might constitute irresponsible 
lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general principles of fair business practice. Section 
2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and 
fair business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising, selling, or seeking 
to enforce a credit agreement
make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet 
repayments in a sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make 
an informed choice
monitor the borrower's repayment record during the course of the agreement, 
offering assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things, it says:
In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure selling, 
aggressive or oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which 
is deceitful, oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current indebtedness, poor 
credit history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted or exploited.
Section four of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders 
were required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration of the 
potential for the credit commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation, 
taking account of information that the creditor is aware of at the time the credit is granted. 
The extent and scope of any assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, 
should be dependent upon  and proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 
of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which 
involves a creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake a specific credit commitment, 
or specific additional credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower 
incurring (further) financial difficulties and/or experiencing adverse consequences.Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running account credit, 
creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 4.3 
says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings 
and
without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the 
issues that might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes 
factors such as:
the type of credit product;
the amount of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial situation at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower 
experiencing (or having experienced) financial difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrowerSection 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information that a lender 
might use to assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained from the borrower through a form or a meeting
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending 
practices relating to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would 
include where a lender is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable assessment of affordability in an individual case or cases
Section 4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient information to be able to reasonably assess affordability, prior to 
granting credit, significantly increasing the total amount of credit provided, or significantly 
increasing the credit limit (in the case of a running account credit agreement)
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is 
known, or reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed by the 
customer. 4.29 says it would be an unsatisfactory business practice where a lender:
fail[s] to take adequate steps, so far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that 
information on a credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and 
correct.
And section 4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application for credit under circumstances in which it is known, or reasonably 
ought to be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application 
for credit with regards to the information supplied relevant to inform an assessment of 
affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending practices relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s) have been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory 
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say:The OFT considers that creditors should take appropriate actionwhen/if there are signs of 
apparent / possible repayment difficulties.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think there are 
two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would such checks more likely than not have shown that Mr F wouldve 
been able to do so?
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that TFS Loans didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr F and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations at the time TFS Loans lent to Mr F required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner. TFS Loans was required to carry out this borrower focused assessment 
in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr F. In 
practice this meant that TFS Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr F. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for TFS Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of 
Mr F, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were TFS Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
TFS Loans has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr F. 
During this assessment, Mr F confirmed that he received £2,700 a month. Mr F evidenced 
this by providing a payslip confirming this was the case. TFS has also said it carried out 
credit check on Mr F. 
The credit check showed that Mr F had defaulted on a number of accounts and had 
mortgage arrears. However, Mr F confirmed that his previous difficulties repaying credit were 
due to funding his studies and the living costs associated with this. But he now had a 
significant increase in pay, agreements with his creditors and a disposable income of around 
£1,000.00 a month. 
Ive carefully thought about what TFS Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check TFS Loans carried out and the content of its discussions with Mr F 
indicated that Mr F had significant difficulties with credit in the recent past and that he was 
still in mortgage arrears. So I think that TFS Loans ought to have taken steps to verify Mr Fs 
monthly expenditure, given that his declared monthly disposable income of around 
£1,000.00 was inconsistent was with someone who was in an arrangement to pay mortgage 
arrears and someone who might want to apply for credit on such disadvantageous terms. I 
dont think it was enough to simply accept Mr Fs version of events  especially as there was 
no explanation of when hed been a student and how much more he was now being paid. 
In my view, there was a clear mismatch between what was showing on Mr Fs credit file and 
his declared disposable income and suggested further investigation was needed into Mr Fs 
expenditure, rather than simply proceeding with what, on the face of things, appeared to be 
an overoptimistic declaration of Mr Fs ability to make repayments. 
I say this while especially mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules and guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. 
This was an expensive loan and TFS Loans had been told that it was being used to 
consolidate payday lending.  
I accept that TFS Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the 
existence of Mr Fs guarantor might have given it more confidence that the payments would 
be made, But I dont think that the existence of the guarantor, on its own, meant that Mr F 
himself would be able to sustainably make the payments given what the credit file showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where a customers finances are showing signs of 
possible strain and distress, they are expected to maintain payments for a longer period of 
time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what TFS Loans had 
seen or ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications for the 
guarantor, TFS Loans needed to get a thorough understanding of Mr Fs financial position in 
order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan payments he 
was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking Mr F to verify his income, I think that TFS Loans needed to verify what 
Mr F said about his expenditure. It could have done this by asking for information such as 
bank statements or copies of bills. And when it obtained this information it needed to 
properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr F did have enough funds to be able to make the 
payments.
 
As theres no evidence that TFS Loans did properly scrutinise the information provided, or 
that it asked Mr F to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations 
made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing Mr F with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS Loans that Mr F would 
more likely than not have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Mr F wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr F has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mr F has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks TFS Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from TFS Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Mr Fs financial circumstances were more likely than not 
to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, TFS Loans was required to establish whether Mr F could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr F has provided in light of all of this. 
The information Ive been provided with shows that that Mr F was gambling unsustainable 
amounts of money. In these circumstances, I dont think that TFS Loans would have lent if it 
knew, as I think it ought to have, that Mr F difficulties managing credit was mainly because of 
his gambling. And that his ability to repay this loan would, to in all intent and purpose, be 
based on his success as a gambler. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr F would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted TFS Loans to the fact that Mr F would not be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to this loan. 
Did TFS Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude TFS Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some 
other way.  
So I find that TFS Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 
six of this decision, I find that:
TFS Loans didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr F to satisfy 
itself that he was able to repay his loan; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mr F 
was unable to sustainably make the repayments to this loan;
TFS Loans didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way.
The above findings leave me concluding that TFS Loans unfairly and unreasonably provided 
Mr F with a guarantor loan in April 2013.Did Mr F lose out as a result of TFS Loans unfairly and unreasonably providing him with his 
guarantor loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr Fs indebtedness as it led to him 
to being provided with expensive credit for a significant sum. This loan was expensive and 
he ended up paying interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been given in the 
first place. 
So I find that Mr F did suffer adverse consequences and as a result lost out because TFS 
Loans unfairly provided him with this loan.
  
Fair compensation  what TFS Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr F  
Ive carefully thought about what TFS Loans should do to put things right in this case. Having 
done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Fs 
complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges (including all lender and broker fees) Mr F 
paid as a result of his guarantor loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr F to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Fs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
put things right for Mr F in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman