DRN-2762396
The complaint
Mr B complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Information from Mr Lender has helped me to create a brief table of approved loans. 
Loan Approved Amount Instalments Highest repayment 
sum (rounded)Repaid
(late or on time)
1 28 March 2015 £300 One  19 day 
term£348 10 June 2016 
(Late)
2 8 July 2015 £400 Three £254 16 March 2016 
(Late)
3 16 March 2016 £550 Six £224 21 September
2016
(Little late)
gap in lending
4 4 July 2017 £200 Three £135 16 October 2016
5 16 October
2016£700 Six £290 Unpaid Repayment 
plan December 
2017
Mr Lender responded to Mr Bs complaint by issuing its final response (FRL) in which it 
explained why it did not think that his complaint should be upheld. But it did make an offer to 
Mr B which he turned down at that stage  November 2020. It was:
That being said on a gesture of good will basis, we would be willing to reduce your 
outstanding balance of £555.55 to £0.00 closing your account with Mr Lender and 
meaning no further payments are due. We will also be willing to contact the credit 
reference agencies to remove any adverse information from your credit file relating to 
your Mr Lender loans.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. She recognised the gap in the lending after 
loan 3. She thought that Mr Lender should put things right for Mr B for loan 3 and loan 5.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 July 2021 in which I said I was planning to uphold loan 
3 and that I endorsed Mr Lenders offer for loan 5 subject to a caveat that Mr Lender was 
entitled to set off the refund due on loan 3 to assist in clearing loan 5. 
Mr B wrote to us to say, Ive read through the Ombudsmans decision and Im happy with 
the comments and justification behind each one of them. 
Mr Lender has come back to us with a qualified acceptance. So, Ive reconsidered the case 
and this is my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable
for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
the ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
I have carefully reconsidered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. Below are the findings I came to in my 
provisional decision which were shared with both parties. Ive explained what each party said 
in response. 
My final decision is that neither party has provided me with anything to lead me to alter my 
provisional findings. And Mr Lenders response to my provisional decision is an acceptance 
of my assessment, and Mr Lender has not said that theres any withdrawal of the offer on loan 5,  and so I take it from that the offer remains. So, these are my final findings and are to 
be read as part of this final decision. 
 
Provisional findings 
What is in dispute?
Mr B has not disagreed with our adjudicators outcome whereas Mr Lender has taken issue
with the two loans for which our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. These
are loans 3 and 5. So I do not need to review loans 1, 2 and 4 as these appear to have been
resolved.
The significance of the gap in the lending between loans 3 and 4 means that in my view
Mr Lender was acting reasonably to treat Mr B as if he was a new customer when he applied
for loan 4 in July 2017. This makes a difference to what I would expect Mr Lender to have
done before lending.
So, the overall relationship pattern, was two payday loans and one instalment loan in the first
12 month loan chain from March 2015 to March 2016, followed by one payday loan and an
instalment loan in the second loan chain.
Mr Lender has raised the issue of proportionate checks considering the position of loans 3
and 5 in the loan chains. So, I have reviewed these two loans only.
Loan 3
Here I do agree with our adjudicator that after two loans where some payment difficulties
had been demonstrated in loans 1 and 2, and loan 3 was for a little more than loan 2,
additional checks may have been justified before approving loan 3. Mr Lender has said that
Mr Bs expenditure for these items were as shown in this table here which is an extract from
the information Mr Lender sent to us.
Loans (Inc short term) £147.00
Other regular outgoings £350.00
These figures had increased since Mr B had applied for loan 2 which had been these sums:
Loans (Inc short term) £147.00
Other regular outgoings £26.00
Loan 2 had taken 8 months to repay when it was meant to have been repaid in 3 months.
So, with increased expenditure for a larger loan, to be repaid over six months, I think further
checks were warranted before approving loan 3.
I have thought very carefully about what Mr Lender may have discovered if it had, for
instance, chosen to ask to see Mr Bs bank statements. Mr B has explained to us that he had
a gambling issue at the time and I can see that correspondence with Mr Lender when the
complaint was commenced with it, gambling appears to have been mentioned. And our
adjudicator has referred to gambling as well and so I dont think that Mr B will mind me
referring to it here.
The two sets of bank statements (for two different accounts) which we have been sent by
Mr B for March 2016, show multiple transfers between accounts and on one set extensivebetting and gaming transactions. I do not think that a responsible lender would have
considered that Mr Bs control of his spending was stable enough to have lent to him in
March 2016.
I am planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint about Loan 3.
Loan 5
My current understanding is that Loan 5 remains unpaid and as I have not seen anything to
the contrary, the offer Mr Lender made in its FRL remains available.
On current evidence I agree with Mr Lenders view that Loan 5 was the second loan in that
second loan chain and so it would not have been proportionate for it to investigate Mr Bs
financial situation further before approving loan 5. And I say that because what it did do
appeared to be proportionate checks for the second loan even though it was for a larger
amount than loan 4. And so, I consider that the best outcome for Mr B in relation to loan 5 is
to endorse the offer Mr Lender made in its FRL.
I endorse Mr Lenders offer in relation to Loan 5, but with the caveat that Mr Lender can use
the calculated refund for the Loan 3 redress (outlined below) to offset against the debt on 
Loan 5 before it writes off the balance on Loan 5.
Putting things right
 In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B at loan 3 in the first loan chain, as Im
satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical,
answers to that question. The Loan 5 situation is different and dealt with separately.
For example, having been declined Loan 3, Mr B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr B in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender ought to do as follows:
calculate the refund sum being all interest and charges Mr B paid on Loan 3;
calculate the interest of 8% simple a year* on that interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;remove any negative payment information about Loan 3 from Mr Bs credit file; 
carry out the offer Mr Lender made to Mr B for loan 5 which is set out in the what 
happened section of this decision. There is an addition to it which is that its fair for 
Mr Lender to use the refund from Loan 3 to offset what Mr B owes it on Loan 5,
and then write off the remaining balance if there is one. If there are surplus monies 
after using the Loan 3 refund amounts to offset against Loan 5 then that surplus is to 
be paid to Mr B.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and I direct that PDL Finance Limited, 
trading as Mr Lender, does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman