DRN-1630170
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy they hold with Scottish 
Widows Limited. They are unhappy that Scottish Widows didnt release the maturity 
proceeds on time and they incurred additional interest on their mortgage. 
What happened
In 1994 Mr and Mrs B arranged a 25 year mortgage and matching endowment with a lender 
(lender 1) and its associated life assurance company. Subsequently the endowment policy 
was transferred to Scottish Widows. 
At the time of the sale the policy was assigned to lender 1, which means the maturity 
proceeds were meant to be paid to the lender at maturity. 
Mr and Mrs Bs lender merged with another (lender 2) to become lender 3. More recently 
lender 3 split to again become lender 1 and lender 2.
In July 2019 Scottish Widows wrote to both lender 1 and Mr and Mrs B to inform them that 
the endowment policy was due to mature in September. The lender was asked to confirm if it 
still had an interest in the policy. No response was received from the lender.
On 10 September 2019 Scottish widows again wrote to lender 1 asking whether it still had 
an interest in the policy. No response was received to this letter.
Mr and Mrs B returned the maturity payment form confirming that the policy was still 
assigned to their mortgage lender. They said the payment should be made to lender 1, but 
didnt provide the account details asked for. This was signed on 17 September 2019 by Mr B 
only and received by Scottish Widows on 20 September 2019.
A further letter was sent to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage lender again asking it to confirm the 
security issue.  
On 7 October 2019 Mr B telephoned Scottish Widows. He informed it that his lender had told 
him it hadnt received any correspondence about the policy. He confirmed it was sending a 
letter of no further interest and it. There was some discussion about the lender and Mr B 
confirmed that he thought when lender 3 had split the mortgage hadnt returned to lender 1, 
but had been transferred to lender 2. It was confirmed that Scottish Widows had thought the 
assignment had transferred back to lender 1. It asked him to contact lender 2 and ask it for a 
letter of no further interest. Once it was received the maturity value would be paid within nine 
working days.
Three days later Scottish Widows received a letter of no further interest from lender 2.
When Mr B telephoned Scottish widows a week later to chase payment, he was told that as 
the mortgage had originally been with lender 1, the mortgage would have been transferred 
back to it. As such, it needed Lender 1 to confirm no further interest in the policy. This was 
supported by the information Mr and Mrs B had given on the maturity form. However, when 
Mr B confirmed his mortgage was with lender 2, Scottish Widows accepted that the notice of 
no further interest from lender 2 would allow it to make payment. In order to pay out the 
maturity value, as Mrs B hadnt signed the maturity form, it would need her to sign. A new 
form was sent the same day for Mr and Mrs B to sign again.
Mr and Mrs Bs completed maturity form was received by Scottish Widows on 
23 October 2019. They raised concerns on the same day about the delays in the covering 
letter accompanying the form.
On the same day, Mr B called Scottish Widows to make enquiries about the maturity 
payment. He was again told that a letter of no further interest was required from lender 1 
because Scottish Widows records didnt include any mention of Lender 2. Mr B complained.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It said that it wasnt informed of 
any change to the assignment when lender 3 split. As such, its records still showed as the 
policy being assigned to Lender 1. In light of this Scottish Widows needed Lender 1 to 
confirm it had no further interest in the policy. However, it apologised for telling Mr B the 
letter of no further interest from lender 2 was acceptable. It paid Mr and Mrs B £75 for the 
inconvenience this caused them.
A letter of no further interest from lender 1 was received by Scottish Widows on 
7 November 2019. The maturity value of the policy was paid five days later and included late 
payment interest from the maturity date at a rate of 1.75% p.a. Scottish Widows wrote to 
Mr and Mrs B on the same day confirming the payment had been made.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with Scottish Widows response and referred their complaint to 
this service.  They confirmed that they had paid their mortgage off 56 days late and paid 
interest at 2.75% on the entire balance of slightly over £58,000. They said they were unable 
to repay the total balance to their lender until they received the money from Scottish 
Widows. Mr and Mrs B said they estimated the additional interest was in the region of £205.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that their complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. They said the whole situation had been caused by the 
amalgamation of the two lenders and lender 1s life arm with Scottish Widows. They said a 
layperson would be unlikely to be understand what had gone on, but they believe Scottish 
Widows staff should have known what had happened and none of the problems should have 
happened. Mr and Mrs B described Scottish Widows attempts to contact lender 1 as a 
complete shambles and they have suffered losses because of that.
As Mr and Mrs Bs further comments didnt change the investigators conclusions, the 
complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs endowment policy was assigned to their lender in 1994 when they arranged 
it and their mortgage. This was not unusual at the time and it meant that lender 1 had a legal 
interest in the policy and was entitled to any money released from the policy either during the 
term or at maturity. As such, Scottish Widows could not pay the maturity value of the policy 
without lender 1s permission. On that basis Scottish Widows wrote to lender 1 using the details of the assignment. If that 
assignment should have been updated when there were changes to the lender or cancelled 
completely, it was for the lender to notify Scottish Widows. Given the assignment is a legal 
document, it was not for Scottish Widows to make any assumptions about which of the 
newly separated lender 1 and lender 2 entities owned the assignment  that was for the 
lenders to confirm.
Scottish Widows appears to have attempted to contact the appropriate lender based on the 
information it had well in advance of the maturity date. This gave more than enough time for 
lender 1 to confirm either details of where to pay the money if it still had an interest or that it 
no longer held an interest. The lender was chased a further twice for this information.  I dont 
consider Scottish Widows did anything wrong in this respect.
I note Mr and Mrs B have said that because Scottish Widows is in the same financial group 
as Lender 3 and lender 1, its staff should have known what had happened to their mortgage. 
Whilst it is the case that Scottish Widows is part of the same financial group and those 
lenders, it would not have been privy to information about Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account 
as it is a separate legal and commercial entity from the lenders. It would also not have been 
appropriate for it to make any assumptions about what had happened to Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage, including whether they even still had the mortgage. Furthermore, knowing which 
lender the mortgage had been transferred to wouldnt have changed what was needed. 
Whether Scottish widows knew the mortgage had been transferred to lender 2 when lender 
3 split, it still needed formal notification of the transfer or cancellation of the assignment.
I know that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but other than mistakenly telling them that it 
would accept the notification of no further interest from lender 2, I dont consider Scottish 
Widows did anything wrong. Scottish Widows has paid appropriate compensation for that 
mistake. As such, I dont consider any further redress is due.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 October 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman