DRN-3746001
The complaint
Ms B, a beneficiary of her late sisters pension, complains that Scottish Widows Limited 
(SWL) provided a poor service when processing the death benefits from her sisters personal 
pension. She said this led to distress and inconvenience and other financial costs. 
Ms B is an eligible complainant in this complaint due to being a beneficiary of her late sisters 
pension. She is also one of two Executors of the estate. Both of the Executors have been 
involved in the resolution of this complaint. 
What happened
Ms Bs late sister had a personal pension with SWL. She paid monthly contributions into the 
pension.
Ms Bs sister sadly died on 11 June 2021. But SWL issued a letter to her on 23 August 2021 
as that months contribution had been missed. The letter explained what might happen if the 
contributions werent paid.
On 10 September 2021, Ms B informed SWL that her sister had died. She sent it a copy of 
the death certificate and will. SWL received this on 13 September 2021. But still sent out a 
further letter to Ms Bs late sister about the missing contributions on 13 September 2021. 
And another letter dated 14 September 2021 about her retirement.
On 4 October 2021, the other Executor of the estate called SWL to complain about the 
letters SWL had sent to Ms Bs late sister after it had been informed about her death. He 
explained that the letters were distressing. SWL raised a complaint.
Ms B also sent SWL a letter of complaint later in October 2021. She said that she was 
unhappy that she hadnt received a response to her 10 September 2021 letter. She felt that 
there had been unacceptable delays in sending documentation to progress the claim. And 
that it had been upsetting to receive further letters addressed to her late sister after SWL had 
been informed of her death. She also complained that it had been difficult and time 
consuming to get through to SWL on the phone. Ms B noted that the personal pension was 
worth £148.977.05. And said she would like settlement so she could complete the necessary 
forms to apply for probate.
Ms B called SWL on 25 October 2021 for an update. SWLs complaints team tried to call her 
to discuss the complaint on 17 November 2021 but couldnt get through or leave a message. 
It also tried to call Ms B on 22 November 2021 but got no answer.
On 30 December 2022, Ms B spoke to the bereavement team at SWL and the death benefits 
claim process was started.
SWL issued its first final response letter on 4 January 2022. It apologised for the delays and 
awarded £450 compensation to cover the cost of phone calls and for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused the two Executors. And a further £50 for the delay in dealing 
with the complaint. SWL also tried to speak to Ms B to discuss the complaint.
SWL acknowledged that the level of service Ms B had received had fallen below the 
standards it set for itself. It apologised for the delays in processing the bereavement claim 
and for the distress it had caused. And said that the letters it had sent to Ms Bs late sister 
after itd been informed of her death had been due to delays in updating the computer 
records. And because the correspondence was automatically issued.
On 3 February 2022, the other Executor to the estate called SWLs complaints team to tell it 
that HMRC were charging the estate interest on the money it owed since 1 December 2021. 
He also called SWL on 1 March 2022. He told it he was unhappy with the way the complaint 
had been handled. And said he expected it to cover the cost of the interest HMRC was 
charging. 
Ms B brought the complaint to this service for a review on 1 March 2022. 
SWL re-opened the complaint on 2 March 2022. SWLs complaints team spoke Ms B who 
told it that she was very unhappy that the claim had yet to be finalised. SWLs notes stated 
that it apologised and said there were very long backlogs. SWL confirmed it would pay the 
interest on any delays. 
The other Executor called SWL again on 7 March 2022 to chase the claim. SWLs notes 
stated that it guided him to the claims forms and confirmed it required the documentation to 
be completed and returned along with Grant of Probate. He called SWL again on 8 March 
2022 to tell them he couldnt provide Grant of Probate until the pension value had been 
confirmed.
Ms B sent in a further complaint letter which SWL received on 8 March 2021. She was 
unhappy that the claim had yet to be settled. She said that the estate needed the money 
from the personal pension to settle the estate inheritance tax liability and to be granted 
probate. Ms B remained unhappy that it was difficult to get through to SWL and that it didnt 
call back when it said it would.
Ms B sent a completed bereavement claim form to SWL on 10 March 2022. She stated in 
her email that SWL had agreed that it would cover all interest payable to HMRC backdated 
to 10 September 2021.
Ms B completed and returned SWLs potential beneficiary form on 5 April 2022. She only 
included her late sisters niece and two nephews. Ms B raised a further complaint. She said 
she was disappointed that it had taken seven months for the correct forms to be sent to her. 
She also queried the claim value, as shed previously been given a higher figure.  
The other Executor called SWL on 19 April 2022 for an update. He felt itd got all the 
information it needed to complete the claim earlier that month. He said that although the 
case was marked as high priority, he still had no indication of when the funds would be 
released. 
SWL called Ms B on 19 April 2022 to discuss beneficiaries. Call notes recorded that the 
team within SWL which was responsible for making nominations of the death benefits had 
decided that it would pay them in equal shares to Ms B and the other living sibling of her late 
sister, as these were the jointly top-ranking next of kin.  
During a call later in April 2022 between SWL and the other Executor, call notes recorded 
that he didnt understand why the death benefits didnt pass in accordance with the will. The 
notes stated that SWL explained that payments of death benefits were made at the 
discretion of the trustees. Ms B also called SWL and told it she didnt understand why the 
death benefits hadnt passed in accordance with the will. SWL confirmed with Ms B on 28 April 2022 that there were only two surviving siblings and 
that there were no people in classes above siblings on the potential beneficiaries form. 
Ms B called SWL again on 29 April 2022 as she was concerned about the claim value. 
SWLs notes stated that this was due to letters being issued which confirmed the policy 
value after the date of death.
SWL paid the pension benefits in two halves to Ms B and the other living sibling. On 3 May 
2022. It paid Ms B £70,699.49. This was based on a £69,992.96 payment for Ms Bs 50% 
share of the death benefits. And £706.53 of gross interest on late payment from 29 July 
2021 to 3 May 2022. 
SWL issued a further final response letter on 5 May 2022. It still felt the complaint should be 
upheld, but that further redress should be paid. It apologised for the delays to the settlement. 
SWL said thered been delays to it recording the death notification. And further long delays in 
providing Ms B with a potential beneficiaries form. It acknowledged that the process had 
taken much too long to complete. And that it couldve been processed on 29 September 
2021. It explained how it had reached this date.   
As the claim hadnt been settled until 3 May 2022, SWL said it had calculated the net simple 
interest it felt would compensate Ms B for the lack of access to her share of the death 
benefits during the delays  using 8% each year  from 29 September 2021 to 3 May 2022. 
This was £2,223.56. It also offered Ms B £175 further compensation for the inconvenience 
the additional delay had caused her, as well as the lack of communication since her original 
complaint had been closed.
SWL offered Ms B £2,398.56 compensation in total. It also offered her surviving sibling the 
£2,223.56 lack of access interest. 
SWL said that its bereavement department had confirmed that it had followed its usual 
processes in deciding to make the nomination equally to the two highest-ranking next of kin.
SWLs call notes recorded that it called Ms B to discuss its complaint letter on 4 May 2022. 
And that shed accepted the proposed resolution. It paid the compensation itd offered on 10 
May 2022. 
Our investigator spoke to the other Executor on 11 August 2022 to find out if the complaint 
had been resolved. The other Executor suggested that further compensation of around 
£8,000 to £10,000 should be paid. He said this was because the delayed claim payment had 
delayed the settlement of the inheritance tax bill and receipt of Grant of Probate. This had 
meant that hed only recently legally received ownership of Ms Bs late sisters house. This 
had delayed the start of the building work hed intended to start in January 2022. He said 
that hed been told that the cost of the required building work had increased by 25-30% since 
January 2022. He felt this equated to £8,000 to £10,000.
Our investigator issued her view on the complaint 20 September 2022. She didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. She felt that although SWL had made an error, itd taken 
reasonable steps to resolve the complaint. She felt that the compensation it had paid was 
fair under the circumstances.
Our investigator also explained why this service could consider Ms Bs complaint in her 
capacity as a beneficiary of the pension in question. And that this included considering the 
distress and inconvenience Ms B had suffered. But that we couldnt award any 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to the estate. She also explained why we couldnt directly consider compensation for the distress SWL had caused the other Executor, 
who wasnt a beneficiary of the pension in question. In light of this, although both Ms B and 
the other Executor had raised the complaints with SWL, this service considered that Ms B 
was the only eligible complainant.
The other Executor didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that the sale of Ms Bs late 
sisters house had been delayed because of the delay caused by SWL. He said the house 
wouldve been on sale in June 2022 but for the delays. But that it had only been put on sale 
in November 2022. He also felt that nine months of his life had been ruined. And that SWL 
hadnt told him he wouldnt be a beneficiary for nine months. He felt this was against Ms Bs 
late sisters wishes.
Ms B also didnt agree with our investigator. She made the following points. 
- She felt SWL had mismanaged everything from the beginning. In particular, she 
questioned why it had taken SWL the time up to 4 January 2022 to respond to her 10 
September 2021 letter informing it of her sisters death. She also queried why itd 
taken SWL so long to process the eventual settlement. She also said that SWL had 
been difficult to speak to from October 2021 onwards. And that shed often either 
failed to be connected, or had to wait a long time to be connected. 
- She said her late sister had told both her Executors that they needn't worry about 
paying the inheritance tax that would be due as the lump sum from her SWL personal 
pension would more than cover what would be owed. 
- She said that when she was eventually sent the beneficiary form to complete, SWL 
had asked her why she hadnt included herself. She said no one had told her that 
SWL put siblings before anybody named in the will. And that it had been a shock  
especially for the other Executor who was also responsible for sorting out and selling 
her late sisters house. 
- She queried how the estate wouldve paid HMRC the inheritance tax if she and her 
surviving sister had kept the money from the pension. She also felt that the way the 
money had been paid could cause further problems if she and her surviving sister 
died within seven years, as further inheritance tax might have to be paid. 
- She said that if the death benefits had been processed on 29 September 2021, as 
SWL had acknowledged they should have, her late sisters house couldve been 
ready for sale in June 2022. But as it was, the required work couldnt be started until 
May 2022, by which time prices had rocketed. She said this had caused the other 
Executor other financial issues.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Ms B. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Im very sorry for the loss of Ms Bs sister. Theres no dispute between the parties that things 
went wrong in terms of how SWL dealt with Ms B at a very difficult time. What is in dispute is 
whether the compensation SWL has paid so far is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. 
I understand that SWL has paid a total of £625 compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused. £450 of this was paid jointly to the Executors before SWL had 
decided on the beneficiaries. And a further £175 was paid to Ms B after the second 
complaint. SWL has additionally made a joint payment to the Executors of £50 for the delay 
in dealing with the complaint. 
Therefore Ms B has received total compensation for the distress and inconvenience SWL 
has caused her of £400 - £225 from the first final response and £175 from the second. And 
£25 for the delay in dealing with the complaint. Shes also received net interest in respect of 
the lack of access to her share of the death benefits of £2,223.56.
I need to decide if the redress SWL has paid so far is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. 
Before I do that, I need to consider if the other Executor is an eligible complainant. Our 
investigator considered that he wasnt, as he wasnt a beneficiary of the personal pension.
Is the other Executor an eligible complainant?
As I noted earlier, both of the Executors have been involved in the resolution of this 
complaint. And the other Executor has told this service that hes lost out financially due to 
the delays caused by SWL. So Ive gone on to consider whether we can consider this part of 
the complaint.
This service can only consider complaints from eligible complainants. From what Ive seen, 
the other Executor isnt an eligible complainant as he has no direct relationship with SWL 
and wasnt a beneficiary of the pension. 
But even if the other Executor was an eligible complainant, were an evidence-based 
service, so I couldnt fairly ask SWL to cover the losses he feels hes suffered. I say this 
because hes provided no evidence for them other than his testimony that his costs have 
gone up. Our investigator asked the other Executor if he had evidence of the building costs 
increase but he was unable to provide any.
Ive also seen no definitive evidence that the Grant of Probate wouldve completed by 
January 2022 but for SWLs delays. This is the date the other Executor said the building 
work wouldve started but for the delays. 
Even if the other Executor was an eligible complainant  which Im satisfied he isnt  without 
such evidence I couldnt fairly ask SWL to cover the increased building costs hes said he 
faced. 
I moved on to consider the additional points Ms B has raised. I first considered her points 
relating to SWLs decision to pay the death benefits to her and her surviving sister, rather 
than the beneficiaries shed listed. 
Did SWL pay the death benefits correctly?
Ms B feels that SWL shouldve paid the death benefits to the beneficiaries shed listed on the 
potential beneficiaries form. She said her late sister had told her that the inheritance tax due 
on her estate would be more than covered by her SWL personal pension. Ms B also said 
that it had been a shock to find out that SWL had selected different beneficiaries from the 
ones shed listed. Ms B also queried how the estate wouldve paid HMRC the inheritance tax it owed if she and 
her surviving sister had kept the money from the pension. She felt this could mean that 
further inheritance tax might have to be paid on that money. 
SWL said that its bereavement department had confirmed that it followed its normal 
processes when it had decided to pay the death benefits to the two highest-ranking next of 
kin.
Ms Bs disappointment at SWLs death benefit distribution decision is understandable. 
However, the procedures SWL has for dealing with claims for benefits on the death of a 
policyholder are standard in the industry. 
Ms Bs sisters pension policy was set up so that the benefit payable on death didnt form 
part of her estate. The main reason for this is so that the lump sum paid from the policy isnt 
subject to inheritance tax. 
As a result of this arrangement, SWL has discretion over the payment of the lump sum to an 
eligible beneficiary. In this trustee role, SWL is required to have regard to any written 
wishes of the policyholder sent to it, and also to any valid will of the policyholder. However, it 
isnt legally bound to follow either of those documents. Instead, its required to consider other 
potential beneficiaries, who might also have a legitimate claim to the benefit.
Ive seen no evidence that Ms Bs sister gave SWL any specific written wishes. But I have 
seen that she nominated as beneficiaries of her estate her two nephews and one niece in 
her will.
SWL had a copy of Ms Bs sisters will. But it needed further information before it could fairly 
decide who the death benefits should be paid to. So it asked Ms B to complete a potential 
beneficiaries form. 
The form listed potential beneficiaries in the following order:
Spouse; Children; Dependant; Grandchildren; Parents
Then:
Brothers and Sisters; Nieces and Nephews; Aunts and Uncles, followed by other more 
distant relatives.
Ms B completed the form, but she didnt include herself or her surviving sister on the form. I 
consider that she shouldve done so, given the form was simply asking her for information 
that SWL needed in order to make its death benefit distribution decision.   
SWL wasnt legally obliged to follow the wishes that Ms Bs sister had set out in her will. And 
instead it followed its usual processes to determine who it considered ought to rank higher 
than the beneficiaries Ms B had listed on the potential beneficiaries form. Had Ms B fully 
completed that form, it wouldve been clear that she and her surviving sister were potential 
beneficiaries.
I'm sorry that it came as a shock to Ms B that SWL had selected different beneficiaries from 
those set out in her late sisters will. But Ive seen no evidence that SWL had ever told her it 
would simply pay the death benefits in line with the will. 
And while I acknowledge that the inheritance tax on the estate couldve been difficult to pay 
if Ms B and her surviving sister hadnt used the death benefits they received to pay it, I cant fairly say that SWL acted incorrectly when it paid the death benefits to the highest-ranking 
next of kin. 
As Ive not seen any evidence that SWL failed to correctly distribute the death benefits, I 
cant uphold this part of the complaint. 
This service looks to put consumers, as far as possible, into the position they shouldve been 
in but for the error/delay. So I next considered whether the lack of access redress SWL has 
paid Ms B was fair.
Lack of access redress
SWL has paid Ms B £2,223.56 as a net lack of access interest payment. I need to consider if 
this is fair and reasonable. 
I first considered whether I agreed with SWL that the death benefits couldve been 
processed on 29 September 2021. 
Ive reviewed the timetable SWL used to get to this date. Having done so, I consider that it 
fairly reflects the date the death benefits couldve been processed. I also note that the death 
benefits were actually paid on 3 May 2022.
SWL used the period from 29 September 2021 to 3 May 2022 to calculate the lack of access 
interest payment it should pay Ms B and her surviving sister. Im satisfied this reflects the 
correct period of time. 
I next considered the interest rate SWL used to calculate the redress. This service would 
typically award 8% simple interest on delayed payments. This is what SWL used in their 
redress calculations. 
As Im satisfied that SWL have put Ms B back into the position she shouldve been in but for 
the delay, I consider that SWL has taken reasonable steps to put things right. So it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to ask SWL to do anything further here.
I next considered Ms Bs points about the service shed received from SWL. 
Distress and inconvenience
Ms B felt that SWL had mismanaged the whole death benefit distribution process. She 
specifically questioned why it had taken SWL so long to respond to her 10 September 2021 
letter. And why itd taken SWL so long to process the eventual settlement. Ms B also said 
that SWL had been difficult to speak to after October 2021, which had been very 
inconvenient and time-consuming.
 
SWL said that, in order to resolve the complaint, it had paid a total of £675 compensation to 
the Executors to apologise for the inconvenience the poor service and delays had caused. It 
felt that alongside the lack of access interest payment, this was a fair outcome to the 
complaint.
Ive carefully considered whether the redress SWL has paid to date is fair. 
Bereavement is a very difficult time, and can often be made worse for close relatives when 
also faced with the considerable bureaucracy involved in administering the deceased persons financial affairs. 
From what Ive seen, Ms B has had to chase SWL on several occasions to progress the 
claim. That has often been made harder due to difficulty getting through to SWL on the 
phone and its occasional to call back. 
Overall, I can see that the service SWL provided was far from ideal, at what I know mustve 
been a difficult time. And I agree that SWL caused Ms B inconvenience as she had to call 
and write to them on several occasions to progress the claim. 
Id expect compensation to be awarded for the inconvenience SWL has caused. And Id also 
expect it to award compensation for the unreasonable delay in responding to the letters Ms 
B sent between September 2021 and December 2021. And for the length of time it took to 
provide Ms B with the correct claim form. 
However, I can see that SWL tried to manage Ms Bs expectations about how long 
everything would take. And I can see that Ms B did find out part way through the process 
that it was likely to take 150 working days to complete the claim.
SWL has paid a total of £675 compensation and apologised for the poor service. I 
understand that Ms Bs share of this compensation was £425. Overall, I consider that the 
compensation SWL has paid for distress and inconvenience is fair under the circumstances.
I say this noting, as our investigator did, that I can only consider the distress Ms B 
experienced. And, as also previously noted, that £425 compensation is in line with what our 
service would usually recommend for an error which has caused considerable distress, 
upset and worry over many months.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that SWL has taken reasonable steps to put 
things right. And I wont be asking it to do anything further. So I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman