DRN-2293601
The complaint
Ms S complains that Society of Lloyds (SOL) wont accept responsibility for a water leak in 
her kitchen after carrying out work under an insurance claim.
References to SOL include its agents involved in the claim and investigation process.
What happened
SOL dealt with an escape of water claim and repairs were complete in early July 2018. The 
water supply was reconnected on 5 July 2018 and on 9 July 2018 Ms S found water 
escaping from a hose under the kitchen sink. She called the plumber who had reconnected 
the water supply and he repaired the leak. It was found that a metal braided flexible hose 
had a large split in a section. Ms S retained the hose.
SOLs experts asked Ms S for access to the hose to carry out a forensic inspection, this was 
because on examination there was evidence of something having eaten through the steel. 
But Ms S wouldnt permit this and as SOL considered the cause of the hose failure hadnt 
been established, it declined to repair damage from the water leak. 
Our investigator considered events between August 2018 and 7 September 2018 (to the 
date of the final response letter) and didnt think SOL had acted unreasonably by asking to 
forensically examine the hose. She didnt think it was evident that the cause of the leak could 
solely be placed at the contractors who carried out repairs on the original claim. And 
examination of the hose was likely to have established the exact cause such that it could be 
determined if SOL was liable for the further damage. She noted SOL had paid Ms S £50 
compensation for some delays with replying to her communications, which she thought was 
reasonable and so didnt uphold Ms S complaint.
Ms S disagreed on the basis that she thought the hose was already corroded and shouldnt 
have been replaced during repairs related to the original claim. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this case concerns the leaking hose. Ms S case is that SOL negligently 
reattached the hose which was corroded and shortly after reconnecting the water supply the 
hose split and damaged her kitchen. SOLs case is that there is the appearance of a 
corrosive substance coming into contact with the hose, and forensic examination would have 
been able to identify the likely cause of the hose splitting. And this may or may not support 
SOL being liable for the leak.
In the original claim Ms S thought her kitchen should be replaced but SOL disagreed. The 
ombudsman in that complaint didnt think it had been shown the kitchen needed to be 
replaced as a consequence of the original claim which concerned a leak from a bathroom. 
SOLs loss adjuster attended with Ms S shortly after the second leak thats the subject of this 
complaint. SOL wanted to carry out further investigations given the context of the original 
claim and the recent leak. Forensic investigators were appointed and as part of their 
investigation they spoke with the original plumber, Ms S and looked at the hose. The 
plumber is recorded as having said there may have been something on the hose that had 
eaten through the steel. To diagnose the cause of failure, the investigator wanted to examine 
the hose braiding microscopically in a laboratory.   
I am satisfied this is a reasonable step for SOL to take in its investigation of the water leak. 
The policy conditions state that in property claims for loss or damage, Ms S must allow 
inspection of the damaged property. I am satisfied that SOL has shown a reasonable need 
to carry out a more detailed inspection to establish the cause of the failure. The outcome of 
such an inspection would enable a decision to be made on the likely cause and therefore 
whether the damage from the leak fell to be paid by SOL. 
I appreciate Ms S felt she couldnt trust SOL and wanted her expert to examine the hose 
first. Thats her choice but its deprived SOL the opportunity to validate the claim. It seems as 
though Ms S later permitted inspection, but this wasnt until around November 2018 and 
apparently inspections have been carried out by Ms S and SOLs experts respectively. The 
outcome of those inspections is not part of this complaint but may be part of a further 
complaint submitted to us.
Like the investigator I find that the £50 compensation paid for some communication delay is 
fair. Ms S will hear from us separately on the other complaint shes asked us to consider. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman