DRN-3561692
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd restricted access to his account, withheld his funds and 
closed his account without notice. Hed like compensation for the impact. 
What happened
Mr S had an e-money account with Revolut Ltd. 
Mr S also had a linked investment account. As our investigator explained Im unfortunately 
unable to consider Revoluts actions in relation to Mr Ss investment account  as this 
account was managed by a different legal entity.  
On 15 October 2020 Revolut contacted Mr S. They asked him to provide details regarding 
his main source of income, three recent pay slips and bank statements showing his salary 
payments. 
On 14 November 2020 Mr S provided a copy of his October payslip but Revolut responded 
to confirm theyd asked for three payslips, and asked whether he can provide another two. 
Revolut then asked Mr S to provide a copy of his two most recent invoice statements, and a 
tax breakdown from the last full year. 
Mr S provided a copy of his tax statement for the tax year 2018-2019, and three invoices 
relating to a business hes a director of. Which Ill call B. 
On 23 December 2020 Revolut restricted Mr Ss account, preventing external transfers. And 
on 30 December 2020 Mr Ss account was fully restricted. Mr Ss account remained 
restricted until 30 March 2021  when his account was closed, and his funds were returned. 
Mr S complained to Revolut  however they didnt think theyd acted unfairly. They explained 
theyd followed the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account on carrying out the restriction and 
closing his account with immediate effect. 
Mr S raised his complaint with our service. He said Revoluts actions had caused him severe 
distress, hed been unable to pay his tax return, his credit rating had been damaged and hes 
had to sell personal items. Mr S has provided evidence from HMRC relating to unpaid tax 
bills  but these mainly relate to B  and other bills he was behind on.  
After Mr Ss complaint came to our service, Revolut reviewed their actions in restricting and 
closing Mr S account. And although Revolut thought theyd acted fairly in both restricting and 
closing it, they felt that they could have carried this out more quickly. They initially offered 
Mr S £20 before raising it to £100. But, Mr S didnt accept. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ss complaint. They thought Revolut had followed their terms 
and conditions in restricting Mr Ss account, and closing it without notice. But, they thought 
they should have completed the review sooner  and this caused Mr S inconvenience. They 
thought Revolut should pay Mr S £300 compensation for the impact on him. 
Revolut accepted, but Mr S didnt. In response he said:
It shouldnt take one to two years to review an account
How is his credit rating going to be repaired?
As Mr S didnt agree its been passed to me to review. After reviewing Mr Ss complaint I 
contacted Revolut to explain Id reached a similar conclusion to our investigator. But I 
thought 8% interest should have been paid from the date the funds should have been 
released, 6 February 2021, to 30 March 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction
Ive firstly considered Revoluts actions in restricting Mr Ss account and withholding his 
funds until 30 March 2021. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account and the wider regulatory 
obligations Revolut need to comply with. Im satisfied that Revolut gave Mr S the opportunity 
to provide documentation theyd requested on more than one occasion before restricting his 
account. Revolut gave Mr S from 15 October 2020 to 23 December 2020  a significant 
period of time before taking action. I can see that Mr S did supply some documents  
however Im satisfied Revolut acted reasonably in determining they werent sufficient. 
Revoluts terms are clear in detailing their ability to review accounts and suspend them when 
necessary  and I think they initially followed these terms and conditions fairly. It follows, I 
cant say they acted unfairly in blocking access to Mr Ss account. However, I do need to 
think about whether the review was completed as quickly as Id expect. 
In total Mr Ss account was restricted for a period of just over three months  from 
23 December 2020 to 30 March 2021. Mr S has mentioned that the account was restricted 
and under review for over a year, however I cant see any evidence of this. Revolut have 
accepted that their review took longer than theyd expect  and I agree. On our service 
asking Revolut for an explanation on why the review took just over three months, they 
havent been able to give specific details regarding the timeline. 
Having reviewed the evidence supplied by Revolut and considered best practice in reviewing 
accounts  I think Mr Ss account should have been unrestricted much sooner than it was on 
30 March 2021. And the funds should have been released within 45 days of the restriction, 
6 February 2021. 
Ive thought about the impact on Mr S from the delay in releasing his funds. The majority of 
impact Mr S has described relates to the limited company hes a director of  and 
unfortunately as a separate legal entity Im unable to consider the impact to B. 
Account closure
Mr Ss account was closed on 30 March 2021 with immediate notice. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ss account, and the criteria allowing them to close Mr Ss account 
without notice. And having done so Im satisfied Revolut acted fairly in choosing not to give 
Mr S notice.Mr S has mentioned that his credit rating was impacted by Revoluts decision  I understand 
this will disappoint him, but as Im satisfied his account was closed fairly I cant hold them 
responsible for any damage to Mr Ss rating. 
Putting things right
Ive considered the impact of Revoluts delay on Mr S  as Ive explained above I think that 
Revolut should have released Mr Ss funds by 6 February 2021, much sooner than they did. 
Mr S has explained that as a result he was unable to pay Bs tax bill, however as Ive already 
explained I cant take any impact on B into account  as B is a separate legal entity. Mr S 
also provided evidence of him struggling to pay other bills, and I agree its highly likely the 
extended restriction of Mr Ss funds caused him inconvenience, negatively impacted on his 
mental health and led to him to struggle financially. 
Mr S was deprived of the use of his funds from 6 February 2021 to 30 March 2021. I 
therefore think Revolut should pay Mr S 8% interest between this period.   
My final decisions
My final decision is I direct Revolut Ltd to:
Pay Mr S £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him
Pay 8% interest on the withheld funds, £3,408.54, from 6 February 2021 to 
30 March 2021. 
If HMRC requires Revolut Ltd to pay tax on this interest, Revolut Ltd should provide Mr S 
with a certificate showing how this is calculated if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman