DRN-4021173
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mrs and Mr C hold with 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. Theyre unhappy that Virgin failed to 
execute a rate switch in the summer of 2021. Mrs and Mr C eventually executed a new 
rate switch in 2022, but paid interest at the standard variable rate (SVR) in the interim. 
Theyre seeking compensation for the extra cost.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr C and Virgin. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr C being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mrs and Mr C run a portfolio of BTL properties; the mortgage on one of them is the subject of 
this complaint, was on a fixed rate that was due to end on 1 July 2021. They arranged 
through their broker to apply for a new deal, and on 7 June 2021, Virgin issued the offer for 
the new rate, 1.74 % fixed for three years. The offer was posted to the broker, with an 
identical copy also going to Mrs and Mr Cs registered home address.  However, they had 
just moved, so Virgin re-issued the offer to their new address on 10 June 2021.
The new rate should have taken effect on 1 July 2021, but didnt. Instead, the mortgage 
reverted to SVR (which meant the rate charged went from 1.73% to 4.54%) and the monthly 
payment went up to around £835. 
In April 2022, after receiving a series of notifications of changes in the SVR, it was 
established that the reason the new rate hadnt taken effect was that Virgin hadnt received a 
signed acceptance of the offer. Mrs and Mr C arranged a new rate of 2.55%, fixed for five 
years. Mrs and Mr C complained, and Virgin admitted that it hadnt included the acceptance 
form with the first offer, but said neither Mrs and Mr C nor their broker had contacted it about 
the omission. It offered Mrs and Mr C £150 compensation for their time and trouble, but 
otherwise rejected the main thrust of the complaint.
Our investigator thought Virgins response to the complaint had been fair; Mrs and Mr C 
have asked for it to be reviewed and decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview 
and decide whats fair in the round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed, as here) we 
reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
On the first point, its common ground, and accepted by all, that Virgin didnt include an 
acceptance form with either of the offers it issued in June 2021. As reviewing ombudsman, I 
have to assess not just what Virgin did - or failed to do  but also what impact that had. Just 
as importantly, I have to consider what Mrs and Mr C did  or failed to do  to mitigate that 
impact.
Whilst a product switch was eventually put through in mid-2022; a significant point in the 
case is about when Mrs and Mr C knew the 2021 switch hadnt taken effect. In a 
conversation with Virgin in May 2022, Mr C told it they became aware in January 2022, 
presumably on receipt of the first of a series of variable rate change notifications. It seems to 
me however that they should reasonably have realised something was amiss when their 
monthly payment went up to over £835 in July 2021. Mrs and Mr C have said that with such 
a large BTL portfolio to manage, they didnt notice, and that it was Virgins responsibility to 
contact them or their broker when it didnt hear back from them with a signed acceptance.
Ive given that argument a lot of thought, and whilst I can see why it would resonate with 
Mrs and Mr C, overall I dont find it entirely persuasive. Its not Virgins responsibility to chase 
up every active offer to find out why it hasnt been accepted. But it is Mrs and Mr Cs 
responsibility to manage their portfolio BTL business, including keeping track of the costs of 
running the business. Yes, I take their point that with so many properties to monitor, they 
missed the payment increase on this one in July 2021, and Im not unsympathetic towards 
them on that point. But that rather illustrates the point that any business can make a mistake, 
just as Virgin did when it didnt include the acceptance forms with the June 2021 offers. 
Mrs and Mr Cs claim for redress is reliant on there being an unbroken chain of causation 
between the missing acceptance form and the time spent paying interest on SVR. I 
appreciate this wont sit well with Mrs and Mr C, but Im not persuaded that chain exists. 
Theyre on record as saying they knew something was wrong in January 2022, but for the 
reasons Ive explained, should have realised this in July 2021. Yet, they only acted to take 
the mortgage off SVR in May 2022. I think they could, and should, have done so as early as 
July 2021, and if they had, Virgins omission would have been picked up and rectified without 
any financial impact to Mrs and Mr C.
In summary, all this means I can only fairly award Mrs and Mr C compensation for their time, 
trouble and upset due to Virgin not including the acceptance form with the offer. Virgin has admitted its mistake and its entirely right that it should have offered Mrs and Mr C 
compensation for the inconvenience theyve been put to. So Ive next considered if that offer 
is fair.
This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, 
especially in the moment. But I have to assess things objectively. When I do that, I find an 
offer of £150 compensation to be fair in all the circumstances. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively, sometimes taking a step 
back from the minutiae and focussing on the broader picture. Thats what Ive done. Having 
done so, I cant find in Mrs and Mr Cs favour to the degree they believe I should. 
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has already made an offer to pay £150 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision 
is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mrs and Mr C £150
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman