DRN-4283950
The complaint
Miss L complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Very) has declined to amend 
information it has reported on her credit file, which she thinks should be recorded differently.
What happened
In October 2012 Miss L entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) to deal with her 
creditors, including Very. The DAS was varied in 2013 and as I understand it, Miss L made 
the approved payments until completion in February 2022. More recently, Miss L became 
concerned that the way Very has reported the DAS was having an adverse impact on her 
credit score, which will affect her ability to get a mortgage loan.
Miss L complained to Very, who told her that the information recorded  that she had been in 
an arrangement to pay until February 2022, and that the account was up to date or inactive 
since then  was an accurate reflection of the account conduct. It wasnt willing to amend the 
data, so Miss L referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator was satisfied that Very had correctly reported the DAS as an arrangement 
to pay, noting the 2013 variation confirmed by Miss Ls DAS administrator. He also noted 
that the debt appeared to have been settled and was no longer showing as being in an 
arrangement. Miss L questioned why her credit file wasnt showing the account as settled in 
line with her other creditors and information from her DAS administrator. She also said shed 
asked Very to close the account, which had a zero balance.
The investigator put this to Very and suggested it amend Miss Ls credit file accordingly. 
Very said that a settled account is considered a negative entry on a credit file, and the 
information it was recording wasnt detrimental and is looked on more favourably by lenders. 
It didnt agree to change what it had reported so the matter was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive had regard for what the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says 
about how lenders should report a situation like Miss Ls to a credit file1.
Im conscious that Miss L feels the way Very reported her DAS means shes worse off than if 
the lender had defaulted her account. I dont share that opinion, but in any event I cant in 
the circumstances that apply in this case properly tell Very to treat the account as if she had 
defaulted. That would mean requiring Very to report inaccurate and incomplete data, which 
goes against the ICO Principles.
The Principles say that when a lender agrees a reduced or revised payment with a borrower 
(which is the situation in a DAS even if the lender is compelled to agree by operation of law), 
1 see ICO publication Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies (Version 2a Published July 2016 (updated to refer to GDPR and DPA 2018))
this arrangement will be reflected on their credit file. The Principles also say that unless the 
borrower breaks such an arrangement, a default would not normally be registered. With this 
in mind, Im satisfied with the accuracy of the information Very reported on Miss Ls credit file 
during the period she was in the DAS.
However, that cant rightly be said for the information Very has reported since Miss L 
completed her DAS in February 2022. Once the DAS was completed, Miss L owed no 
further money to Very. The account balance on her credit file is correctly reported as zero. 
But in this respect the ICO Principles say the following:
If you make a full or part payment and no further money is expected, the account should 
be closed unless you have agreed with your provider to continue your relationship.
Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss L agreed to continue her relationship with Very. Indeed, 
she says she asked Very to close the account. So thats what should have happened. As the 
DAS had the effect of setting the total amount Miss L was required to pay, she has paid what 
she owes in full. The ICO Principles indicate that where  as here  the account is to be 
closed, the credit file should show it as fully paid (or settled).
Ive noted Verys response to our investigator explaining why it hasnt taken those steps. I 
dont think its entirely correct to say that a settled account is viewed negatively by lenders, 
though even if it is, that doesnt justify the apparent failure to comply with the ICO Principle 
or Miss Ls closure instruction. I therefore direct Very to amend the information it has 
reported to Miss Ls credit file, to show her account as closed with a status of settled  not 
part-settled  effective from 21 February 2022 when she completed her DAS.
My final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited must, within 28 days of 
receiving Miss Ls acceptance of this decision, amend her credit file as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman