DRN-3134701
The complaint
Mr D and Miss W complain that Barclays UK PLC unfairly assessed their income when they 
applied for a mortgage. That led to them losing the house they wanted to buy and associated 
reservation costs.
What happened
Mr D and Miss W approached Barclays for a mortgage in 2020  they wanted to port their 
existing Barclays mortgage and increase their borrowing. Mr D and Miss W spoke to a 
Barclays mortgage advisor who told them they could borrow approximately £162,000 in 
principle. Mr D and Miss W say, based on that information, they paid a reservation fee on a 
property and paid for solicitors and a surveyor. 
However, Mr D and Miss Ws subsequent application was declined based on affordability.  
Mr D and Miss W understand this to be because Barclays would only consider 80% of        
Mr Ds income which was a new rule Barclays brought in as a result of the covid pandemic. 
They say Barclays should have known about this and informed them of it at the time they 
were given an agreement in principle.
Mr D and Miss W complained to Barclays. In its final response letter dated                          
29 December 2020, Barclays said it was unable to uphold their complaint. It explained that 
its mortgage advisor told Mr D and Miss W their application would be reviewed by 
underwriters. And, having done so, its underwriters decided the maximum Barclays would 
lend Mr D and Miss W was approximately £137,000 based on its lending policy.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr D and Miss W asked us to consider their complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr D and Miss Ws complaint. She said the decision in 
principle didnt guarantee Barclays would lend Mr and Mrs D a specific amount. She also 
said that Barclays did use 100% of Mr D and Miss Ws income before establishing the 
amount it was prepared to lend them. And she didnt think Barclays was responsible for the 
costs Mr D and Miss W incurred because it hadnt issued a formal mortgage offer.
Mr D and Miss W didnt agree. They said they were told only 80% of Mr Ds income was 
used and its appalling that Barclays chose only to use 80% at the last minute when itd 
based the agreement in principle on 100%. Mr D and Miss W say they have an email from 
the Barclays advisor confirming 80% of Mr Ds income was used.
As Mr D and Miss W didnt agree with our investigator, their complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr D and Miss Ws complaint Ive thought about whether Barclays guaranteed it 
would lend them a specific amount and whether it assessed their income fairly.
Its clear that Mr D and Miss W were disappointed when Barclays told them they couldnt 
borrow the amount they wanted  particularly because theyd paid out a significant amount 
of money by that time and because they were told only 80% of Mr Ds income was 
considered. I understand that it must have been frustrating to be told only a certain 
proportion of their income was considered for reasons outside of their control.
It appears from what Mr D and Miss W have said that Barclays advisor told them only 80% 
of Mr Ds income was actually considered. I think there must have been some 
misunderstanding, either on the part of the mortgage advisor or how she explained the 
situation to Mr D and Miss W. I say that because Barclays has explained it to us somewhat 
differently.
Regarding its consideration of self-employed income since the covid pandemic Barclays 
says it did introduce new guidance to its underwriters. It said its underwriters should assess 
affordability based on 80% of the self-employed income and if the requested borrowing 
remained affordable the application could proceed. If the requested borrowing was not 
affordable at 80% but was affordable at 100% of self-employed income, its underwriters 
should request and assess three months business banking statements.
Barclays says, having followed the above procedure  assessing affordability using both 
80% and 100% of self-employed income  it was only prepared to offer Mr D and Miss W a 
total mortgage of approximately £137,000.
Ive seen no reason to disbelieve what Barclays has told us about the lending policy it 
applied to the assessment of Mr D and Miss W. In any event Barclays is free to set its own 
lending criteria and it is also free to vary its attitude to taking on mortgage risk based on 
wider circumstances. In this case it changed its assessment process due to concerns about 
the effect of the covid pandemic. I think, based on what its told us, this change involved 
adding an extra layer of checking to its affordability assessment  the potential added 
assessment of three months business banking statements. And as it was a change to its 
assessment process for all self-employed applicants, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays 
to apply it to Mr D and Miss Ws application.
Mr D and Miss W received an agreement in principle from Barclays some time before they 
made their full application. But I havent seen that Barclays ever provided Mr D and Miss W 
with a mortgage offer. 
It isnt until a mortgage offer is issued that the amount of mortgage (if any) it is prepared to 
lend is confirmed by a lender. Thats because the offer only comes after full assessment of 
the potential borrowers circumstances, including affordability. An agreement in principle is 
given without a full assessment and is always subject to one.
Barclays only provided an agreement in principle to Mr D and Miss W. So, I dont think it was 
responsible for the losses Mr D and Miss W incurred.
Overall, I dont think Barclays has treated Mr D and Miss W unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr D and Miss Ws complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman