DRN-3380101
The complaint
Mr R has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R was in an accident and he claimed on his policy. esure deemed his car a total loss. It 
valued the car at £1,588 before making any deduction for excess or for Mr R to keep the 
salvage. Mr R thought that valuation was far too low and complained. esure acknowledged 
that not all its service was up to standard and offered Mr R £100 compensation to address 
the impact of that. But it thought its valuation was reasonable.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2022. For ease 
Ive copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy says that if his car was a total loss esure would pay him its market value, less 
any deduction for his excess and for keeping the salvage. The policy defines market value 
as follows:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides. 
And esures approach to valuations is generally in-line with how we feel insurers should go 
about valuing second-hand cars. That is we generally find a useful starting point is to use the 
industry trade guides for valuing second hand cars. Thats because those are based on likely 
selling prices rather than the prices cars are advertised for. And we usually find the trade 
guides more informative than adverts, as those figures are often inflated to allow room for 
negotiation.
But, in this case, I dont think esures approach has produced a fair valuation. Thats 
because Mr Rs car is whats sometimes known as a hot hatch. That is its a small, sporty 
hatchback. Its manufacturer stopped making those models in 2003. To a certain type of car 
enthusiast, they are quite desirable. And as they havent been built for 19 years they are 
becoming rarer to find. So they are not the sort of second-hand cars that are readily found in 
used car forecourts. That means fewer of them are available for the trade guides to calculate 
their valuations upon.
esure valued Mr Rs car at £1,588, after making a £249 deduction for some pre-existing 
damage. But my research indicates that figure is not equivalent to what Mr R likely could 
have expected to receive had he sold his car shortly before the accident. Ill explain why.
esure used two trade guides to find a valuation for Mr Rs car. Ill refer to those trade guides 
as C and Z. Cs online valuation tool gave esure a valuation of £1,336. However, C doesnt 
usually provide valuations for cars over 20 years old. And given that Mr Rs car was more 
than 20 years old when esure valued it, I wondered how it had found that valuation. To 
answer that we made an enquiry directly of C. It told us that it didnt produce valuations of 
cars that old at the time esure valued it; so C wasnt sure how that valuation had been 
returned to esure on this occasion, (although Ive seen the screenshot confirming that it 
was). And, on that basis, I think its fair to conclude that Cs valuation was given in error and 
its reasonable to disregard it.
Z gave a valuation of £2,339 when esure valued the car but that had updated to £2,370 
when we valued it. But while Zs valuations are usually reliable, I think for cars of this age, 
where many examples being sold are project cars (that is cars needing a considerable 
amount of work) and not currently on the road, its algorithm won't weed out unroadworthy 
cars so it won't necessarily produce a fair valuation for roadworthy cars. I think thats the 
case here, as, by doing some further digging into some of the cars Z had used to produce its 
valuation, it became clear to me that some of those were complete non-runners or had been 
added to the website with a default price, rather than an actual asking price. So, in the 
specific and rather unusual circumstances of this case, I dont think Zs valuation is reliable 
either.
Further, because of the age of Mr Rs car, the other trade guides we usually rely upon also 
didnt give valuations for his car. So, as we don't have the trade guide tools available in this 
instance to value the car, Ive looked to the market to see what that indicates a fair valuation 
might be.
Mr R told us that he was certain he could have achieved, at a very minimum, £3,000 had he 
sold his car, although he argued it would likely be much more. And during the course of his 
complaint hes sent us a number of car adverts which he says support his position. Ive 
compiled a table of those that were available to me below as well as some cars Ive found 
advertised myself.
I need to be clear that I'm fully aware that the advertised prices for cars arent necessarily 
selling prices. Indeed theres no guarantee that an advertised car will sell at the price its up 
for, if in fact it sells at all. But advertised prices are an indicator of possible sale price albeit - 
perhaps - a consumer might be able to negotiate a slight discount with the seller. But our 
research shows that, recently, cars are selling for much closer to their advertised prices than 
previously. Youll see that I've included in the table below possible selling prices if a 10% 
discount could be negotiated. But I think its unlikely that many consumers would be able to 
manage such a significant discount unless the car was overpriced to begin with. And a figure 
of 5% is perhaps more realistic. Also, as can be seen below, some cars sold at auction have 
gone for higher than their list price.
Mr Rs car was a 1998 model with around 138,500 miles on the clock. It was fully road legal 
but it did have some pre-existing damage to one quarter. So, when compiling the table below 
I've discounted low mileage mint condition cars advertised at £10k plus. Similarly, I've 
discounted track day cars as I dont think those are really equivalent to Mr Rs car.
I have shown some project non running cars, to demonstrate how cars in far worse 
condition than Mr Rs are/were sometimes being advertised. I've added year of manufacture 
and date of sale where that information is known. Ive also shown data taken from 
screenshots of adverts Mr Rs sent to us where not all the information is showing (year of 
manufacture/mileage etc) and I've added some comments that I hope will provide helpful 
when thinking about a fair valuation.Year Advert 
asking 
price
£Price if 5% 
reduction 
realised
£Price if 
10% 
reduction 
realised
£Miles
(K)Date 
advertisedNotes
5,050 
but sold 
for 
£6,30083 May 21 Sold on an auction site 
for £1,250 more than 
the asking price. It has 
done around 56k miles 
fewer than Mr Rs car
98 7,999 7,600 7,200 84.6 May 21 Advertised as being in 
excellent condition and 
has also travelled 
around 55k miles fewer 
than Mr Rs car
97 6,190 5,580 5,570 118 May 21 Described as pristine 
original
6,400
winning 
bidMay 21 Note this is the price the 
car was sold for on an 
auction site not the 
advertised price
5,300 
winning 
bidMay 21 As above this is the 
winning bid on an 
auction site. The car 
was described as used, 
good condition but has 
age related marks
4,100 3,895 3,690 June 21 Described as being in 
good condition for its 
age could do with some 
tidying up
00 3,000 2,850 2,700 159.4 December 
21This car has done 20k 
miles more than Mr Rs. 
Its also being 
advertised in Northern 
Ireland.
98 5,995 5,695 5,396 105.8 December 
21Described as being 
restored and 
immaculate
98 2,800 2,660 2,520 n/k November 
21Described as having 
been off the road for six 
years and in need of 
work. The car was sold 
as best offer accepted
99 4,000 3,800 3,600 75K n/k This car has done 
around 63,000 miles 
fewer than Mr Rs
98 5,795 5,505 5,215 81.7 December 
2021Car has done around 
57k miles fewer than 
Mr Rs
98 3,000 2,850 2,700 80K The car is described as needing a respray, 
some welding and has a 
little rust. This is taken 
from a piece in an 
online car magazine 
article about the sale of 
these models of car.
98 4,995 4,745 4,495 n/k December 
2021This is a rather unusual 
advert on an auction 
site for two cars 
described as barn 
finds. Both are in need 
of work and one is 
beyond saving. The 
seller is essentially 
saying the buyer should 
use one car as a donor 
car to repair the other. 
So the buyer would 
have to buy two scrap 
cars and do a 
considerable amount of 
work in order to make 
one roadworthy car. 
N/k 3,000 2,850 2,700 N/k February 
2022Not a lot of details given 
about this car but its 
last MOT was in 2017 
and it had covered over 
102K then.
I need to repeat that just because a car is advertised for a price doesn't mean it will be sold 
for that price. But looking at the above there are cars being advertised at around 80% more 
than esure valued Mr Rs car for, but which don't have MOTs or are non-runners. And the 
price spread across all of them is fairly broad, spanning a range of around £5,000. But some 
of those at the higher end are in excellent condition with low mileage. I think its fair to say 
that wasnt the case for Mr Rs car. Mr R himself acknowledged that it had cosmetic issues 
that he estimated would probably cost around £1,000 to sort out. And that would affect its 
saleability. But it was a runner with an MOT, although its mileage was at the higher end.
And, bearing in mind there was a car for sale at £4,000, which had some 63,000 miles fewer 
than Mr Rs car, I think Mr R most likely could have expected to sell his car for around 
£3,300. So I think thats the valuation figure esure should use to settle Mr Rs claim.
As Mr R has been without use of this money esure should add simple interest to its 
settlement as described below. Further, as this matter has clearly been a source of 
frustration, distress and inconvenience for Mr R, because he knew his car was worth a lot 
more than esure valued it at, I think it should pay him £150 compensation. For the avoidance 
of doubt that is on top of any other compensation award already offered or made.
Both esure and Mr R accepted my provisional decision. Mr R added that he hadn't received 
any interim payment or offer for his car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R nor esure objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to: 
Settle Mr Rs claim for the total loss of his car based on a valuation figure of 
£3,300.
If, as Mr R says, it hasnt previously made an interim settlement or any offer of 
such a settlement (which Mr R refused) then it should add simple interest to its 
full settlement figure at a rate of 8% a year from the date of claim until the date it 
makes settlement. But, if it can provide evidence of either making an interim 
payment, or of Mr R refusing such an interim payment, it needs only add interest to 
the increased sum it needs to pay to him now.
Pay Mr R £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman