DRN-2930039
The complaint
Ms J complains about the adverse information Home Retail Group Card Services Limited 
(HRGCS), trading as Argos Card, have reported to her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms J has told us her Clear Score credit file is showing missed payments and that these have 
only been present since HRGCS passed the administration of her account to another 
business (Ill call that business M). 
Ms J has provided a copy of her credit file from Clear Score that shows missed payments. 
Unfortunately, Ive not seen a complete credit file from Ms J. I can see the investigator 
suggested Ms J obtain one on a few occasions and guided her to the three major credit 
reference agencies. That would have been useful as the information Ms J has provided isnt 
comprehensive. The screenshot of her Clear Score file only shows either missed payments, 
no data, or payments that have been made on time. Theres no facility to display payment 
arrangements or accounts in a debt management plan.
HRGCS have provided a copy of the information they have been reporting to the credit 
reference agencies. That information shows that they have been reporting Ms J as in a debt 
management plan since late 2018 when Ms J says the account was transferred. The 
statements that have been provided show that was the case. So, I cant say there is 
sufficient evidence that Ms Js account performance is being inaccurately reported. 
HRGCS have also explained that there wouldnt be any negative impact from Ms 
involvement. Any delay in payment reaching them from M wouldnt impact on the report they 
provide to the credit reference agencies. 
Im not therefore asking HRGCS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman