DRN-3672471
The complaint
 Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has incorrectly spelled his name when reporting his 
accounts to the credit referencing agencies (CRAs). 
What happened
Mr B says that HSBC has been incorrectly reporting his name to CRAs, and this has caused 
his financial details to be incorrect on his credit report, as not all of his accounts were 
correctly showing. He says this has led to him being unable to obtain a mortgage and having 
to rent instead, which he feels is losing him money every month. 
HSBC initially apologised and let him know they would urgently update their system to the 
correct name. And they offered Mr B £2,000 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the issue had caused him. However, after further investigation HSBC then 
said that they had not incorrectly spelt his name. Instead they had minimized the number of 
characters in his name when reporting his accounts and that they were following the layout 
specifications for names that the CRA set out, so did not feel they were making an error and 
they rescinded his offer.
They explained that they only send the first four characters of title, first ten characters of 
forename, first initial of up to two middle names and the first nineteen characters of surname. 
However, as Mr Bs name contained more letters, none of his names were reported in full. 
Mr B feels this led to his financial data not appearing on his credit file. 
We initially did not uphold the complaint as the Investigator felt HSBC was following 
guidance set up by the CRAs. However, Mr B provided communications hed had with the 
CRA who confirmed that while they do limit the number of characters that can appear in a 
name to 39, it is HSBC who has chosen to limit that further which has caused Mr B issues. 
Mr B also highlighted that the CRA guidance states a title, full forename, middle initial and 
surname are mandatory, so HSBC has not followed the guidance. 
Our Investigator issued a second view partially upholding the complaint. They recommend 
that HSBC reinstate the offer of £2,000 compensation but they did not agree that there was 
enough evidence to show the issues Mr B had obtaining a mortgage were solely due to 
HSBCs error reporting his name. HSBC agreed to the offer of £2,000 compensation. 
Mr B disagreed with the outcome and felt it was clear HSBCs error was the only reason he 
was declined a mortgage in principle. He felt an offer of £120,000 was reasonable as this 
would cover rental payments he has had to pay since the mortgage in principle was 
declined, expenses relating to the complaint, losses due to house price increases and loss of 
earning due to stress. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think its more likely HSBCs systems have contributed to Mr Bs account 
not appearing on his credit file and that they could have acted quicker to help him once he 
made them aware of this. Ill explain why in more detail. 
The CRA set a restriction on the number of characters financial institutions could use when 
reporting a name. This totalled 39 characters over the title, first name, middle name and last 
name. 
HSBC then made an internal decision to set further restrictions within their systems across 
the title, first name, middle name and last name for consistency. And its likely this works for 
the majority of their customers, however this does not work for Mr B. As mentioned 
previously, HSBCs restrictions are: first four characters of title, first ten characters of 
forename, first initial of up to two middle names and the first nineteen characters of surname. 
However, Mr Bs first name has more than ten characters and his last name has more than 
nineteen. Because of this, neither his first nor his last name were fully reported which Mr B 
says is why his HSBC accounts did not appear on his credit file. 
While I think it is reasonable for a business to set up their systems with consistency in mind, 
Im conscious that Mr B is not the only individual who will be affected by this restriction that 
HSBC has imposed. HSBC has acknowledged this and confirmed they are complying with 
the reporting requirements of the CRA and that even if an individual does not have a full 
name reported, there are additional techniques within the CRAs systems that should help 
identify a customers account and allow them to appear on a consumers credit file. 
While I appreciate that HSBCs system had automated how they report Mr Bs name to 
CRAs, once he informed them that this was not working for his personal circumstances, I 
think HSBC could have done more to help him. It should be noted that even without HSBCs 
restrictions, Mr Bs full name and title were longer than the CRAs allowance for names. One 
suggestion was to allow part of Mr Bs name to appear in the first line of the address section, 
but I dont think this is a sensible solution as it could cause further confusion. 
I note that Mr B informed HSBC a third-party bank had successfully worked around the issue 
by abbreviating the first of his last names to the first initial, which would allow them to include 
his full first name and the second last name in full. However, HSBC did not agree to follow 
the same workaround, its unclear if this is because their system would not allow the first 
name to be reported in full. I have to consider that HSBC were made aware that their self-
imposed restrictions were causing Mr Bs accounts not to appear on his credit file, and they 
were informed that another bank had been able to successfully work around the issue, but 
they did not take steps to assist Mr B further. 
I can see that the CRA were able to fix the issue in July 2021 by pinning his missing 
accounts to the end of his credit file. While this is not an ideal solution, it does appear to fix 
Mr Bs issue of his HSBC accounts not being visible on his credit file. 
I accept that HSBC does not think their automated systems have caused his HSBC accounts 
to not appear on his credit file, as they say other identifiers would have also been used to 
find his accounts and add them to his credit file. Despite this, the offer of £2,000 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill is still available to Mr B. Its not possible for me to know exactly why Mr Bs HSBC account did not appear on his credit file. But considering that 
he had the same issue with a third-party bank, which was then fixed when they amended his 
name, it seems more likely the truncated name was part of the issue. 
On balance, I think the gesture of goodwill of £2,000 is fair in the circumstances and takes 
into consideration the amount of time Mr B spent dealing with this issue. Ive also considered 
that Mr B was trying to obtain a mortgage while this issue was ongoing, which is already a 
stressful process, so the issues he then had with his credit file would have been particularly 
distressing. And I think the £2,000 gesture of goodwill reflects this.
Ive gone on to consider Mr Bs request for additional losses he has incurred as a result of 
having to rent and being unable to take out a mortgage as he has mentioned that house 
prices have now risen. In order for me to consider losses in connection with this, I have to be 
satisfied that HSBC reporting his name was the only factor that led to his mortgage in 
principle being declined by the lender. I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly that it is clear this 
is the case, but there are a number of different factors that can affect an individuals ability to 
obtain a mortgage. 
Ultimately, I have not seen enough evidence to conclude its more likely the perceived error 
made by HSBC is the only factor that led to Mr B being unable to obtain a mortgage. Theres 
no evidence from the lenders showing what their lending criteria was and that the absence of 
Mr Bs HSBC accounts on his credit file alone is what caused the application for a mortgage 
in principle to be declined or that an application would have been successful had they 
appeared on his credit file at the time. While I understand to Mr B the cause of the rejected 
mortgage in principle seems simple, it can actually be a complicated subject. And as 
explained previously Im not satisfied on the balance of probabilities that its more likely than 
not Mr B wouldve gotten a mortgage in principle, but for the missing information on his credit 
file.
It follows that I therefore cannot consider any losses Mr B is claiming in connection to the 
rejected mortgage in principle application and the health issues Mr B has attributed to this. I 
know this will be a disappointment to Mr B, but I hope this outcome will bring closure to the 
situation for him.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr B £2,000 which they 
have offered as a gesture of goodwill. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman