DRN-4138157
The complaint
A, a company, complains that Allianz Insurance Plcs decision to withdraw funding for a 
claim they made on their commercial legal expenses insurance policy was unfair in addition 
to the general handling of their claim.
This complaint is brought by Mr G on behalf of A, but for ease of reference, I shall refer to all 
submissions as being As own.
What happened
A supplied and fitted a product at a customers premises but the customer didnt pay for this. 
In response A brought a claim for non-payment against the customer at Court. 
The customer made a counterclaim for damage to their building when A fitted the product. A 
claimed on its Allianz commercial legal expenses insurance policy for cover to help defend 
the claim. Allianz appointed a panel firm to act for A accordingly.
A time came in proceedings where a single joint expert report was commissioned by the 
parties. The report indicated the cause of the damage to the customers building wasnt as a 
consequence of the installation of As product. But it suggested that the product itself had 
defects, indicating poor workmanship.
Following this, As customer amended its counterclaim by a considerable amount to include 
a claim for poor workmanship. This information wasnt passed to A by the panel firm or 
Allianz who later said they could no longer support defending the counterclaim because it fell 
within one of the policy exclusions. This was the first time A became aware of the new 
counterclaim, over two months after it had been made. 
A complained to Allianz. They said that as their customer was still claiming theyd damaged 
their building, Allianz should still provide them with support to defend the claim. Allianz 
agreed to do this until it was able to bottom out the position on policy coverage. 
Allianz arranged for the panel firm to instruct a barrister who determined that As customer 
was no longer claiming that damage had occurred during the installation of the product and 
that the matter was now entirely focussed on the amended counterclaim for poor 
workmanship. On reliance of this, Allianz withdrew funding. 
Given the matter was very close to trial, A instructed a firm of Solicitors at its own cost. That 
firm was able to successfully negotiate settlement of the dispute with the customer. The 
settlement was made on a drop hands basis, so each party bore their own costs. 
A thinks Allianz is responsible for some of the costs it had to pay its own Solicitor when they 
withdrew funding. It says that it was still carrying a potential liability for costs (for itself and 
the other party) that were covered by Allianz in relation to the claim prior to the defective 
workmanship issue being raised. So, Allianz should now cover part of its costs that were 
paid to its own Solicitor. A also says that the counterclaim for damage to the building never 
went away- it was still being maintained by its customer until the matter was settled, so 
Allianz should never have withdrawn funding.
Allianz accepted that there were failures in the level of service provided to A so they have 
paid it £1000 to A in respect of this. They dont however agree they were wrong to turn down 
the claim when they did and rely on their policy exclusion in this regard.
Our investigator considered As complaint. She concluded that Allianz ought to have told A 
about the amended counterclaim sooner and that their failure to do so caused A 
considerable inconvenience. She said the sum of £1000 already paid to A adequately 
compensates it for this. She also said that Allianz were entitled to stop funding As defence 
when they did as the counterclaim had changed in nature so fell under the policy exclusion.
A doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding As complaint for broadly the same reasons cited by 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
As the investigator explained, I cant decide any of As complaints about the panel firm. They 
are a separate firm of professionals to Allianz with their own codes of conduct and regulator. 
Its simply not within my remit to make findings in respect of them. If A remains unhappy with 
their actions, then it will need to raise this with that firm in the first instance and then the 
Legal Ombudsman things cant be resolved.
The main issue for me to decide is whether Allianz were entitled to stop funding As claim 
when they did and whether theyre liable to pay any of As own Solicitors costs.
The starting point is the policy terms. Section 8 relates to public and products liability. It 
says:
8 Liability in respect of
a Damage to any goods or other property sold, supplied, delivered, installed or erected by or 
on behalf of the Insured
b all costs of or arising from the need for reinstatement, making good, removal, repair, 
rectification, replacement or recall of
i any such goods or property
ii any defective work executed by or on behalf of the Insured
Allianz say that when As customer amended their counterclaim, the nature of the defence A 
needed to bring related to defective work it had executed and this became excluded in 
accordance with section 8(a)(ii) above. Given As complaint about this, Allianz took advice 
from a barrister on the issue and that advice was that the defence that needed to be 
mounted was in relation to defective work and therefore the matter wasnt one that would 
continue to be covered under the policy.
I think it was reasonable for Allianz to take advice on this issue. After all they werent experts 
on what A needed to prove in order to successfully defend the claim. Where an insurer has taken legal advice on an issue like this, it isnt for us to question that advice. So long as it 
has got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question its reliance on 
that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. That 
advice was that the only claim that was covered had been abandoned. In this case, the 
barrister advising was suitably qualified and I cant see that the advice was based on 
something that was obviously wrong or based on a factual mistake.
I realise that A doesnt agree that the defence it needed to present was solely in relation to 
defective workmanship and that it takes the view the claim for damage to the customers 
building never went away. A bases this on an email from its customer confirming that. But I 
dont think that matters. When the amended counterclaim was made, the value of the 
counterclaim shifted to defective workmanship, so even if the damage to building issue was 
still live in the customers mind, the work needed to defend things was for defective work. 
I think it would be difficult, if not impossible, to properly separate out the costs of defending 
the defective workmanship counterclaim, as against damage to the building after the 
amended counterclaim was served. And theres nothing in the papers Ive been presented 
with that helpfully identifies where the further work was required in relation to damage to the 
building. This is true of the work the panel firm did after the amended counterclaim was 
served and As own Solicitors. Because of this and given the work needed to defend the 
counterclaim became an excluded activity, I think Allianz were entitled to withdraw cover.
Whilst I agree that Allianz ought to have ensured A was aware of the amended counterclaim 
before telling it they wouldnt provide any further cover, I do think they acted reasonably in 
allowing cover to remain in place whilst they took advice. They didnt have to do this and 
arguably they provided a period of cover where none ought to have been in place. During 
this time they also funded As costs in the barrister drafting an amended reply and defence 
to the amended counterclaim to protect As position.
I take As point that it would still have been carrying potential liability for costs related to the 
counterclaim for damage to the building after Allianz withdrew cover. And had it been the 
case that A had, had to pick up liability for this, I might have said that Allianz needed to 
contribute. But as things stood, the matter was settled after As own Solicitors negotiated this 
and each party bore their own costs. A wasnt responsible for any of its customers costs. It 
was only responsible for its own Solicitors costs. For the reasons Ive set out above, I think 
those costs would have directly related to defending things in response to the amended 
counterclaim. And based on the submissions A has made, the matter was settled because 
the customer couldnt adduce evidence to support this counterclaim and not the damage to 
building claims they had made earlier in the litigation. So, I dont think Allianz need to do 
anything more to support A with this.
On the issue of compensation that Allianz has already paid, I think this sum is more than 
adequate because its essentially compensating A for information that it should have 
ensured was imparted to it in a timely manner, long before saying it was withdrawing cover. 
I cant compensate A for the distress this caused because A is a commercial entity and 
therefore cant suffer distress. But I can compensate it for the inconvenience of having to 
deal with things later than it would have liked. Even so, the amount Allianz has paid is more 
than I would have awarded. When I combine this payment with the period of cover A was 
provided with whilst Allianz took advice form a barrister (when it wasnt entitled to this), I take 
the view that A has been adequately compensated for what, if any, minimal costs it might 
have incurred, in defending the possibility of the damage to property claim reoccurring by 
settling everything globally.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold As complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman