DRN-2343381
The complaint
Miss L says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to her irresponsibly. She says 
that it didnt do proper affordability checks. She ended up not having enough money to pay 
her bills and so she needed to regularly borrow more to make ends meet. This caused her a 
lot of anxiety and stress. 
What happened
This complaint is about two payday loans and one instalment loan Mr Lender provided to 
Miss L between November 2014 and March 2015.
loan date taken amountmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 12/11/2014 £80 1 28/01/2015
2 30/01/2015 £180 3 13/03/2015
3 30/03/2015 £350 6 15/07/2015
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ls complaint. He said that Mr Lender was wrong to 
approve loan 3.  
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it was reasonable to rely on 
the information that Miss L provided as this was a relatively short lending relationship. The 
information provided showed that loan 3 was affordable. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss L didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss L had with 
Mr Lender. So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
she took.
By loan 3 Miss L had been borrowing for over four months and the amounts she borrowed 
had increased each loan. She was taking the loans over longer periods, presumably to lower 
the repayments. 
So I think Mr Lender couldve realised at that by loan 3 Miss L may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Mr Lender shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Miss Ls true financial situation. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr Lender shouldnt have made these checks as the 
lending relationship wasnt too long. This isnt the only factor to consider here as Ive outlined 
above. There is also the increasing term and amounts. 
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Miss Ls financial situation and I 
think that Mr Lender needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to 
make sure Miss L was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Mr Lender did this, as it said it largely relied on the information Miss L provided.  
So I need to think about what Mr Lender wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. 
Miss L has provided some information about her financial circumstances, this includes her 
bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what Mr Lender wouldve seen at the time. 
But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I 
think its reasonable to rely on it.The bank statements show that Miss L was having problems managing her money. She was 
already indebted to a number of other short term lenders and she was making repayments to 
a third party in relation to her existing debts. I think its reasonable to say that these show 
she was in financial difficulty.
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think Mr Lender wouldve seen Miss L wouldnt have been able repay loan 3 in 
a sustainable way. So I think that Mr Lender shouldnt have given loan 3 to Miss L and I think 
shes lost out as a result of this. Im upholding Miss Ls complaint about loan 3.
Putting things right
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Miss L loan 3.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss L towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss 
L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should pay Miss L the total of A plus B.
D) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Ls credit file 
in relation to loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if they ask 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Ls complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman