DRN-4336861
The complaint
Ms A has complained about delay by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc in processing the 
redemption of her mortgage and in refunding a credit on the account.
Ms A wants TMW to compensate her for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Ms A being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
In its final response letter, TMW acknowledged it had received the final payment on 
12 August 2022, and that the full closedown of a mortgage account generally takes around 
20 working days to complete (so by 12 September 2022, given that 29 August was a Bank 
Holiday). However, TMW didnt send the closing letter until 27 September 2022, 11 working 
days later. 
TMW also explained that, as there was no direct debit in place, in order to process the 
refund TMW needed to verify Ms As bank details. TMW said that it hadnt been able to 
speak to Ms A to obtain these. The refund was made to Ms A on 9 October 2022. 
TMW acknowledged its service hadnt met the standard Ms A should have received, and 
paid her £75 compensation. 
Ms A didnt accept this and complained to our service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened, but thought the £75 compensation was fair and reasonable. Ms A disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said that she thought TMW was 
using the issue of not having her bank details as an excuse, and that she knew TMW was 
lying about this, as it had her details all along. Ms A said that this is the main point about 
which she is concerned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because TMW has accepted it made errors, I dont need to analyse what happened in detail; 
all I need to decide is whether TMW has done enough to put things right.
TMW has acknowledged that the delay in closing the account caused upset to Ms A. Thats 
because, in the interim, a system-generated letter was sent to her saying the mortgage 
hadnt been paid. I completely understand how upsetting that must have been for Ms A.
Im aware that Ms A feels very strongly that TMW was lying to her about needing to verify 
her account details. However, I think it was reasonable for TMW to want to verify the account 
details for the refund, as it no longer had an active direct debit and so couldnt be sure that 
Ms A would want the refund paid to the account TMW had on record for the direct debit. 
TMW had some difficulty contacting Ms A about this; although TMW didnt know this at first, 
this was because Ms A was ill and wasnt able to speak to TMW. 
Ms A was also unhappy that TMW hadnt sent correspondence by recorded delivery. I cant 
tell TMW how to run its business, and it is not TMWs standard procedure to send letters in 
this way; TMW uses ordinary post. If Ms A is having issues receiving her mail, thats 
something shell need to take up with Royal Mail.
Overall Im satisfied that the £75 compensation paid for the administrative errors made by 
TMW is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the delays and mistakes made. I therefore 
dont think TMW is required to do anything further.
I dont know if Ms A cashed the cheque TMW sent her, but if not, it has probably expired 
now. If Ms A wants to accept my decision and the cheque has not been cashed, TMW will 
need to reissue it, or make payment to Ms As bank account, details of which she can 
provide to our investigator.
My final decision
The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc has already made an offer to pay £75 to Ms T to settle the 
complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. Im not making any other order 
or award as I do not uphold any other part of the complaint. So my decision is that The 
Mortgage Works (UK) Plc must pay Ms A £75 in full and final settlement of her complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman