DRN-3029739
The complaint
Ms P complains about the service she received from British Gas Services Limited when 
trying to arrange a boiler repair.
 
What happened
Ms P holds an insurance policy with British Gas that provides cover for her boiler and its 
controls, her central heating, and includes an annual service.
In March 2021 Ms P had problems with her hot water and heating and called British Gas. An 
appointment was made for a few days later, but the day before the appointment was due, 
British Gas called to say they were cancelling it. This was due to a high volume of callouts 
from vulnerable customers, who they had to prioritise. They said theyd need to re-arrange 
her appointment and offered her new one for around three weeks later. But the time and 
date werent suitable for Ms P, so she requested a manager call her back. 
Ms P didnt receive a call back as requested. So she tried contacting British Gas by a 
number of other methods, but struggled to reach them  eventually contacting them through 
social media. She explained shed been without hot water or heating for days, and needed 
an appointment urgently as she was at home with three children. But she was told based on 
her childrens age, they werent considered vulnerable, and therefore, they couldnt offer her 
an appointment any sooner. Unhappy with the new appointment date, Ms P told British Gas 
shed arrange her own plumber, and that she would like her payments refunded. 
Following her plumbers visit, Ms P purchased a new boiler, rather than having repairs 
carried out. She thinks British Gas should contribute towards the cost of this, and 
compensate her for the poor service provided. 
British Gas accepted they provided poor service and offered Ms P £100 as an apology. They 
also paid her £39.49 to cover the cost of a temporary heater she bought while her heating 
wasnt working. But they said they werent prepared to pay towards the cost of replacing her 
boiler, as this wasnt covered under her policy. So, unhappy with British Gass response, 
Ms P brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered her complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that 
she agreed there were failings on British Gas part, but she felt that the re-imbursement for 
the temporary heater, and the offer of £100 for the poor service was fair compensation in the 
circumstances. And she didnt think they should pay towards her boiler.  
But Ms P remained unhappy, and felt the compensation offered was too low. So the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has said more recently that the main crux of her complaint relates to the service she 
received throughout, such as the appointment wait time, and the numerous attempts she 
made to contact British Gas. But when considering her complaint, Ive also thought about 
what British Gas were required to do under the terms of her policy. 
Ms Ps policy covers, amongst other things, all repairs to her boiler, subject to specific policy 
terms and conditions. The policy also says, that British Gas will arrange:
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and: 
-its less than seven years old; or 
-its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by us under either a warranty or HomeCare product. 
So the first thing for me to decide, should be whether or not the boiler was repairable or 
needed replacing at the point British Gas were scheduled to visit.
In this case British Gas never attended Ms Ps property, as Ms P didnt accept the new 
rescheduled appointment date, and instead, appointed her own plumber, who subsequently 
removed her boiler, and replaced it. This meant British Gas were unable to assess whether it 
was repairable or not. As its not 100% clear whether or not the boiler was repairable, Ive 
thought about what was most likely, based on the evidence I have. Ive also looked at both 
the repairs and replacement section of the policy, to see what cover might be provided. 
Following a visit to Ms Ps property in August 2020, British Gas recorded that the heater 
exchange had gone, the burner was ruined, and they advised the policy holders mother, a 
new boiler was needed. And following Ms Ps own plumber attending the property more 
recently, he chose not to repair the boiler, and instead chose to replace it. So, on balance, I 
think its more likely than not, that the boiler wouldve required replacing had British Gas 
visited Ms Ps property. However, Ive still looked at the repairs cover to see where this 
would have left Ms P, had British Gas deemed the boiler repairable. 
The first part of the policy provides cover for all repairs to, including other things: 
a single natural gas or Liquid Petroleum Gas boiler or warm-air unit on your property, 
thats designed for home use and has a heat output capacity of up to 70kW;  
I accept its possible British Gas couldve attended Ms Ps property and concluded her boiler 
was repairable. But they were never afforded the opportunity to do so. And in Ms P having 
her boiler replaced independently, this prejudiced British Gas position to determine whether 
or not a repair wouldve been possible, or complete any works that may have been due. 
There were also no estimated costs of repairs provided by Ms Ps plumber. So as British 
Gas were unable to determine whether repairs could be carried out, and to what cost; I dont 
think its fair to hold them liable for any potential repair costs that may have followed. 
Ive said above why I think its more likely British Gas would have concluded (had they 
visited the property) that Ms Ps boiler wouldve needed replacing. So Ive gone on to look at 
what cover she has regarding a boiler replacement. 
The policy provides cover for a replacement boiler in the event it cant be repaired, but 
subject to the above terms and conditions. Those being that the boiler is less than seven 
years old; or its between seven and ten years old, and was installed by British Gas, and 
been continuously covered by them, under either a warranty or HomeCare product. 
British Gas noted on its visit log from previously attending Ms Ps property in August 2020, 
that the boiler system was installed in 1983. I dont have any further evidence to support this, but equally, Ive seen nothing to suggest its inaccurate. The investigators also checked this 
with Ms P, who informed us that shes only resided at the property for around a year. But 
from her records, she can see the boiler was installed prior to 2011 and was not fitted by 
British Gas. 
Based on the above, Im satisfied that the boiler was older than seven years at the point she 
reported the fault to British Gas. And even if I was to conclude it was less than ten years 
ago, (which the evidence provided suggests it wasnt), by Ms Ps own admission, it was not 
installed by British Gas. So Im satisfied theres no cover under this policy for Ms Ps boiler to 
be replaced. So in summary, I dont think British Gas owe Ms P anything with regards to the 
repair or replacement of her boiler. 
Ms P has explained that she is more upset about the overall service she received from 
British Gas, from when she initially reported an issue with her boiler, up until choosing to 
appoint her own plumber. 
I can see that when Ms P initially contacted British Gas in March 2021, an appointment was 
arranged for a few days later. But this was subsequently cancelled the day before the 
appointment was due. I appreciate that this would have been frustrating for Ms P, especially 
to be left without hot water and heating while looking after her children. But these were 
unprecedented times, during a pandemic, where British Gas has told us it had to prioritise its 
most vulnerable customers. 
The terms and conditions of Ms Ps policy, under the section - Visiting You states:
Reasonable timescales - Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a 
reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which 
case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines concerning 
restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair or visit until such 
time as the restrictions have been eased.
I appreciate that as of March 2021, that things had stabilised to some degree, but British 
Gas has explained that it was still experiencing a particularly high demand during this time. I 
appreciate this was not ideal for Ms P, but given the circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for British Gas to prioritise its most vulnerable customers at this point.
When British Gas contacted Ms P just two days after the initial appointment was booked to 
explain they needed to rearrange it, they offered her another appointment for around three 
weeks later. So I think they let her know as soon as possible that they were unable to visit, 
and offered a new appointment time, in line with the policy terms. I think this was reasonable. 
I can see that the new time offered was not suitable for Ms P, and that she requested a call 
back from a manager that she didnt receive. I can also see that she was unable to contact 
British Gas through their app, as it wouldnt load. So, instead she called and had to wait on 
hold on hold for an over an hour to be connected, only to be cut off. This left Ms P with the 
only remaining option to contact British Gas through social media channels. 
I can only imagine how frustrating this must have been for Ms P, especially while looking 
after her children and facing the issues that she was with her heating and hot water. When 
looking at compensation, any awards we make, are designed to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience those failings had on a customer, theyre not designed to punish businesses. 
So, while I appreciate this was hugely frustrating for Ms P, and I acknowledge there were 
failings in the level of service provided on British Gas part, I think £100 is a fair payment to compensate Ms P for the inconvenience this matter caused her. So for the reasons set out 
above, Im not asking British Gas to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman