DRN-1827737
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr Hs mortgage with Nationwide Building Society. Earlier this year, 
Nationwide took him to court and obtained possession of his property due to mortgage 
arrears. Mr H believes the action was unfair and premature; he says Nationwide failed to 
observe pre-action protocols before starting the action and then lied to the court in its 
evidence to the possession hearing.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters 
which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral. Another reason Ive left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr H when my decision is published.
Mr H took the mortgage out in 2008 with another lender, which then merged into Nationwide. 
Over the years, Mr H accumulated substantial overpayments, which he had returned to him 
in stages during 2017 and 2018. Then, in early 2019, Mr Hs suffered a sudden and serious 
health trauma. I wont reveal any of the detail out of respect for his privacy, but it left him 
unable to work and in need of an operation.
Nationwide agreed an initial payment holiday, and extended it when it became apparent 
Mr Hs situation would not be resolved quickly. In all, the payment holiday ran for six months, 
from March to August 2019 during which time Mr H had the property up for sale. But when 
payments became due again September 2019, Mr H hadnt managed to sell the property 
(there was a problem with the lease) and wasnt in a position to resume making the 
payments. Mr H had his operation in October 2019
In November 2019, while Mr H was recuperating at home, he was advised that Nationwide 
had applied to the court for a possession hearing, and it was due to take place in January 
2020. He contacted us, saying Nationwide hadnt adhered to pre-action protocol. In 
accordance with our rules, we asked Nationwide to investigate and respond to Mr H. It did so 
in a final response dated 2 December 2019. 
It rejected the claim that it hadnt followed pre-action protocol; it said that by providing the 
six-month payment holiday, it had given Mr H a reasonable amount of time to resolve the 
lease situation and sell the property. Nationwide also considered it had tried to discuss a 
payment plan with Mr H, but his circumstances meant this wasnt achievable.
The case went to court in January as scheduled, and the court granted Nationwide the 
possession order. Mr H has moved out and I understand Nationwide is intending, or may 
already have started, the process of selling the property. Mr H made his complaint to us formally in March 2020; thats when he signed our complaint 
form and made his full submission. In doing so, he said that Nationwide had falsified its 
evidence to the court, in particular regarding Mr Hs claim for help with his mortgage interest 
payments from the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unreasonably or treated Mr H unfairly, so 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. As is his right, Mr H has asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes also complained about how the investigator has 
handled his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. And I reiterate that I have to be mindful that I dont include anything in this 
decision that might identify Mr H.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. It seems to me that the underlying crux of 
this complaint is centred on two main points:
Nationwides decision to begin possession proceedings given what it knew about Mr 
Hs wider situation; and
the accuracy or otherwise of its evidence to the court as it related to Mr Hs claim for 
DWP assistance.
Ill begin with Nationwides treatment of Mr H as a borrower in financial difficulties, 
culminating in the decision to litigate. The rules of mortgage regulation require lenders to 
consider each set of individual circumstances fairly to decide if forbearance should be 
provided. Wed expect a lender to consider offering help to consumers going through a 
temporary problem, especially in situations where it can be seen their situation is likely to 
improve.
Its also important to remember what forbearance is; its a concession on a lenders part to 
refrain temporarily from strict adherence to the contract terms, rather than a variation of 
them; and its not a contract term in its own right. 
It looks to me that by the autumn of 2019, Nationwide had come to the conclusion that 
Mr Hs financial difficulties, rather than being temporary, were chronic and unlikely to 
improve in the foreseeable future. I dont mean this unkindly, but however unwelcome that 
conclusion was, it was one that Nationwide was permitted to reach, and it would be wrong of 
me to second guess that judgement by imposing a different one of my own on Nationwide.
One of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate for me to remove that right from Nationwide in a final decision on Mr Hs 
complaint, regardless of his situation. The court action will undoubtedly have been unwelcome to Mr H but in all the circumstances I cant say the decision to litigate was 
unfairly taken. 
That brings me to the hearing itself. Mr H is adamant that Nationwide lied to the court in its 
evidence, and much of his response to the investigators view is focussed on this. Ive 
studied what Mr H has had to say, and the emphatic manner in which hes presented his 
arguments. I do understand Mr Hs strength of feeling on this point. The difficulty for me is 
that its not something I can factor into my decision on his complaint. To explain why that is, I 
return to something I said earlier about our service not interfering with the work of the courts.
In Mr Hs case, a court has considered the evidence presented to it and decided that 
Nationwide should be granted possession of the mortgaged property. That being so, hes 
effectively asking me to decide what the court might have done differently if it had been 
aware of Mr Hs view that Nationwides evidence regarding his DWP claim was inaccurate.
Its not for me to second-guess what decision the court might have reached if Mr H (or 
someone representing him if his health prevented him from doing so himself) had put his 
case to the court. Only the court itself could do that. 
Mr H can achieve that by going back to the court in question, explaining to it all of the 
grievances hes brought to us, and asking the court to decide if the possession order should 
be rescinded and appropriate redress ordered for the consequences that followed. No other 
party but the court (and certainly not I) can decide if the possession order was unfairly 
granted because the court didnt get to explore Mr Hs challenges on the accuracy or 
otherwise of Nationwides evidence to it.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from the submissions the force and eloquence with which Mr H has 
brought the complaint. Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. 
Thats what Ive done here.
Mr H doesnt have to accept my final decision, and if he doesnt neither he nor Nationwide 
will be bound by it. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court might impose, 
Mr Hs ability to take legal action in pursuit of his claim wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of his complaint. 
Its up to Mr H whether he does that, and he may wish to avail himself of one of the free 
advice services; for example Citizens Advice, before deciding what to do next. But, as Ive 
already said, only the courts can decide if the same outcome would have resulted if 
Nationwides evidence had been challenged on its accuracy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman