DRN-1683641
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them both in case 
either one was off work sick or lost their job.
I sent Mr and Mrs G and Santander a provisional decision on 29 February 2020, to explain 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
This sale was over two decades ago and the accounts involved have long since closed. So 
its understandable that neither side have all the original documents from the time. Mr and 
Mrs Gs representatives said they were never told about PPI and it was added without their 
knowledge. Later, Mr and Mrs G said they were told about it, but were given the impression 
they had to have it. While this is contradictory, I understand that buying insurance is not 
often memorable and that this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about 
whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Santander to have misled Mr and Mrs G into 
having PPI. But I have no evidence which shows thats what it did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. From what I can see, Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage application said PPI was something Santander thought they should consider, and 
they could apply for it separately if theyd like it. From the correspondence that followed, it 
seems they signed a direct debit mandate to pay for PPI, and needed to sign an application 
specifically for the policy in order to get it. This was separate to applying for the mortgage 
itself  the PPI wasnt part and parcel of the lending. So I think its most likely that Santander 
made Mr and Mrs G aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to 
take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.
It seems Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, which means it had to check it 
was right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it 
was. For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs G were eligible for the cover and werent affected 
by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives suggested they may have had alternative insurance, but 
later clarified it wasnt relevant. And Mr and Mrs G couldnt remember if they had any 
significant work benefits. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of their work benefits, and it 
covered them for up to 12 months in any one claim. And its worth bearing in mind that this 
mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment, and if Mr and Mrs G fell behind on their 
payments they couldve lost their home. So it seems like the PPI couldve been useful for 
them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs G werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs G could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
16 March 2020. But neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs G sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Santander UK Plc, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman