DRN-2922855
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Allianz Insurance Plc has not sufficiently compensated them for 
the impact of the poor handling of their subsidence claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had home insurance with Allianz to cover their property. At the start of 2014 
they noticed cracks in the property and made a claim for subsidence. Allianz accepted the 
claim and appointed a loss adjuster. It carried out inspections in the coming months to 
determine the cause.
After this the property was underpinned and remedial work was carried out to repair the 
damaged areas. During this time Mr and Mrs G moved into alternative accommodation for a 
period of six months.
In April 2016 the work was complete and Mr and Mrs G moved back into their property. 
However shortly after this they discovered new cracking and movement of the kitchen floor. 
They contacted Allianz again and the problems were assessed by the loss adjuster who 
concluded it was due to normal settlement after the work. He recommended the cracks were 
monitored. Following monitoring further cracks developed and in 2017 Mr and Mrs G 
appointed their own structural engineer to inspect the problem.
Over the coming months and years further monitoring and repairs were carried out. After 
numerous inspections and opinions from experts, it was agreed that the original 
underpinning hadnt been carried out well, so some of this work had to be removed and re-
done. And some of the subsequent repairs carried out by Allianzs contractors also had to be 
re-done. 
Due to this Mr and Mrs G had to move into alternative accommodation for a second time 
while the work was carried out. This was finally completed in August 2019 and Mr and Mrs G 
moved back into their property. 
However Mr and Mrs G werent happy with how the claim had been handled and the work 
that had been done by Allianzs contractors. They said that the poor standard of work had 
led to the claim taking nearly five years to resolve and meant they had to move out of their 
home twice. Which had caused them significant distress and inconvenience. They also said 
that Mr G had taken on the role of a project manager and had been appointing and 
overseeing the contractors carrying out the work, in the latter part of the claim. They felt they 
should be compensated for this. They made a complaint to Allianz.
Allianz upheld their complaint. It accepted that there had been some avoidable delays and 
that its contractors had carried out poor workmanship. To make up for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused it offered Mr and Mrs G £3,000 compensation.
Mr and Mrs G didnt think this was enough. They said Mr G had put in a significant number 
of hours project managing the work and he should be reimbursed for that. They also 
explained the impact moving out of their house twice had had on them, considering they 
were both in their 70s and 80s during the period of work. They brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that she agreed Allianzs contractors had done a poor job and recognised the 
distress this had caused Mr and Mrs G. But she thought the £3,000 compensation offered by 
Allianz was fair and in line with what she would have recommended. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They thought they should be reimbursed for the time Mr G had 
spent project managing the claim, as this would have been a cost Allianz would have had to 
pay if he hadnt stepped into that role. They asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear this claim has had a significant impact on Mr and Mrs G, and from reading their 
account and reviewing the timeline, I can understand why. Significant work was going on at 
their home at intervals across five years. This led to a lot of disruption and the need to move 
out twice. Mr and Mrs G have explained that due to their age, this has been particularly 
distressing. And I agree this would have caused a great deal of distress. 
When there is subsidence at a property, there will always be a level of distress and 
inconvenience caused as a result. This is because the problem can take a long time to 
identify, monitor and repair so claims can take years to resolve. And there will often be the 
need for structural repairs, which will cause disruption. When considering this complaint I am 
looking at the actions of Allianz and considering how these have impacted Mr and Mrs G. 
Rather than the impact of the subsidence claim itself.
Allianz has accepted that it has caused significant delays as part of the claim. And that its 
contractors carried out poor work that needed to be re-done and delayed the claim further. 
So all thats left to decide on is whether it has done enough to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused.
Ive looked at the detailed notes provided by both sides, that show the timeline of the claim. I 
agree with our investigator that the first part of the claim progressed as we would expect. 
Allianz appointed contractors to determine the cause of the problem, repair it and monitor 
the property. It then carried out repairs to the building. 
So when Mr and Mrs G returned to the property in the first part of 2016, Im satisfied there 
had been no significant avoidable delays. 
Mr and Mrs G identified cracks in the property shortly after this and reported them to Allianz. 
Its contractors said this was likely to be settlement, which is quite common after substructure 
repairs have been carried out. Further when Mr Gs appointed engineer visited in January 
2017 he also commented that the cracks were likely to have been caused by settlement. So 
I think this was a reasonable assessment at the time.
However in the year that followed, it became clear that there were problems with the work 
completed by Allianzs contractors. And that a number of the repairs needed to be re-done. 
Due to the extent of the re-work this took some time and significant disruption  causing Mr 
and Mrs G to be displaced from their home for six more months. I agree that this shouldnt 
have been necessary if the repairs had been done correctly. Further Mr G has explained he lost confidence in Allianzs contractors, which meant he took 
on a role of project managing the claim so that he could appoint contractors and oversee the 
work. I understand how time consuming this would be and it would have caused Mr G a lot 
of inconvenience. 
So I agree with our investigator that between 2016 and when the claim was finalised in 2019, 
Allianz caused significant avoidable delays. And had the work been carried out to a good 
standard initially, the claim could have been resolved a lot earlier than it was. From what Ive 
seen I consider an additional two years were added to the claim due to the errors. 
And I can see that this additional time has caused Mr and Mrs G more distress than the 
claim should have. It meant their home was in a state of disrepair while they lived there, with 
contractors attending at intervals. And it meant they had to move out for a second time, 
which shouldnt have been necessary. Theyve pointed out that this would have a greater 
impact because of their ages and I can understand it would have been very distressing. 
Allianz has already offered Mr and Mrs G £3,000 compensation to make up for this 
significant distress and inconvenience. And if it hadnt offered compensation, I would have 
recommended it pay around this amount. As I consider this to be in line with what this 
service has offered for cases with similar circumstances. So based on this Im satisfied that it 
has done enough to make up for the distress its caused. 
Project management
Mr G has also said he thinks he should be reimbursed for his time spent acting as a project 
manager for the claim and the linked expenses. He says had he not taken up this role, 
Allianz would have had to pay someone else to do it. 
Ive considered this but I dont agree Allianz should reimburse Mr G for his time. Ive looked 
at the correspondence between him and the contractors. And while they agree to Mr G 
appointing new contractors and overseeing the work this was based on an offer from Mr G. 
And not something Allianz required him to do.  And Ive seen no evidence this was a 
contractual agreement between Allianz and Mr G.
I understand why Mr G offered to take on a more involved role. As he had lost confidence in 
Allianzs contractors. However, Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was necessary. 
From what Ive seen Allianzs loss adjuster was going to appoint contractors to carry out the 
work, it was just going to take a little longer to do. So if Mr G hadnt taken on such an 
involved role, I think its likely the claim would still have progressed. 
So while I can see this caused Mr G additional inconvenience, I have considered this as part 
of my decision about the compensation award. And I dont think it would be fair to ask Allianz 
to reimburse Mr G for his time spent on the claim or his expenses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman