DRN-2785844
The complaint
Mr T has complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc declined a disability claim he made on 
a mortgage payment protection insurance policy and that it has further cancelled the policy 
and is requiring Mr T to pay back amounts paid out for two previous claims.
What happened
Mr T has made a number of disability claims on the policy. He received £9,529.66 for a claim 
covering 26 May 2017 to 20 May 2018. He also received £7,411.97 for a claim covering 18 
July 2018 to 23 April 2019.
Mr T then contacted St Andrews in June 2019 to make a new disability claim relating to 
back pain, saying that his last working day had been 16 June 2019.
In order to assess the claim, St Andrews asked for, among other things, bank statements of 
wages lodged in Mr Ts bank account from the date he returned to work in April 2019 to the 
date he was certified unfit to work in June 2019, with corresponding receipts or invoices for 
payment.
Mr T did not return the employment section of the claim form, so St Andrews was unsure 
what occupation Mr T had returned to in April 2019, following his previous claim. He sent 
payslips for June and July 2019 from a particular company (that I will call company A). 
However, Mr T had advised during his previous claim that this was a dormant company. St 
Andrews therefore requested the following clarifying information from Mr T:
Completed employment section of the claim form.
Wage slips from Mr Ts return to work on 24 April 2019.
An explanation as to why company A did not appear to be an active company and 
why Mr T advised on his previous claim that it was a dormant company but he has 
now provided wage slips from that company.
A letter from HMRC confirming National Insurance contributions from April 2019
Confirmation of his involvement with a particular restaurant that had the same 
business address as company A.
Mr T did send in some further information in the form of payslips from April to September 
2019 and bank statements. However, the payslips showed that Mr T was in receipt of full 
pay for those months, but the bank statements did not show that pay being received into his 
personal account. The bank accounts did however show other deposits from different 
sources, spanning from before and during the claim period.
On querying why the BACS payments for his salary were not appearing on his bank 
statements, Mr T told St Andrews that the payments may have been going to his Barclays 
account whereas he had only provided statements for his Halifax account. St Andrews 
therefore requested that Mr T provide copies of his Barclays account statements. In 
responding to why he didnt appear to be on statutory sick pay, Mr T then told St Andrews 
that he was not being paid or that he sometimes took cash. Regarding one large payment to 
his bank account, Mr T said that it was a private matter between him and a friend and not 
work related. 
With regard to monthly payments going into his account from a local business, Mr T said that 
it was another friends salary that he was receiving whilst his friend was on holiday. Mr T 
then provided a letter, signed by himself and his two friends, which reiterated that the large 
single payment was for a private matter. It then said that the monthly payment was his 
friends salary being paid into Mr Ts account as the friend did not have a valid bank account. 
Mr T said that he received the payments and then gave his friend the cash.
HMRC then provided information showing that, during the 2017/18 tax year, Mr T had 
earned £4,110 from the company he declared he had been working for when he made his 
claim beginning 26 May 2017. But he had also earned £4,110 from a second company. 
Information provided for the 2018/19 tax year showed that Mr T had earned £6,000 from 
company A and £4,935 from another company (that I will call company B).
On 7 May 2020 St Andrews wrote to Mr T to decline the claim and instructed that it was 
seeking recovery of the amounts paid out for the two previous claims.
With regard to the claim covering 26 May 2017  20 May 2018, it said that Mr T had 
provided payslips for April and May 2017 in support of this which were for £684.52 net each. 
However, the information from HMRC showed that Mr T had earned more than the amounts 
on his payslips for that tax year. Furthermore, Mr T had never mentioned any work or 
earnings from company B.
With regard to the claim covering 18 July 2018  23 April 2019, Mr T had declared that he 
was working for company B at the time of his disability. However, information from HMRC 
shows that he had also received an income from company A, which he had not mentioned 
during the claim.
With regard to the current claim for disability starting on 17 June 2019, the payslips Mr T had 
provided from company A showed a continuous monthly salary from April to September 
2019, which St Andrews had queried as showing no evidence of statutory sick pay. St 
Andrews had also queried Mr Ts work status and requested a copy of his contract of 
employment from company A as Mr T had said he was an employee and not the business 
owner, despite Companies House listing him as a director. St Andrews said that it found the 
information that Mr T had provided in response to its queries, about salary payments and 
other payments into his current account, to be unsatisfactory. For example, Mr T had said 
that he was receiving his friends monthly salary to his bank account and then giving his 
friend the cash, however there were no corresponding cash withdrawals showing on the 
bank statements.
On the basis that Mr T had failed to provide some of the requested information and provided 
contradictory information in other instances, St Andrews said that it was terminating the 
current claim and cancelling the policy. It also said that it was seeking recovery of the two 
previous claim benefit amounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 13, part H of the policy states:If any claim under this plan is fraudulent or is intended to mislead us or if fraudulent or 
misleading means are used by you or anyone acting on your behalf to obtain benefit under 
this plan, your right to any benefit under this plan shall end and we shall be entitled to 
recover any benefit paid and costs incurred as a result of any such fraudulent or misleading 
claim.
In providing information for the claim he made in June 2019, Mr T has produced evidence 
that appears to cast doubt on whether he was in fact working or not. He has provided 
payslips for April to September 2019 that shows him in receipt of normal full pay. Even if an 
employer was providing full sick pay, so that there was no drop in income, payslips would 
still usually accurately reflect what was being paid as sick pay and include an amount of 
statutory sick pay. Furthermore, Mr Ts bank statements did not prove receipt of this income, 
although they did show a regular payment from another source. St Andrews has reasonably 
asked Mr T for an explanation of these things. However, Mr Ts responses have been 
contradictory and he has failed to provide all of the documentation that St Andrews 
requested.
Furthermore, in seeking information in relation to the latest claim, evidence has come to light 
that also casts doubt on the validity of Mr Ts two previous claims. Again, St Andrews has 
reasonably sought an explanation from Mr T about the apparent contradictions in what he 
told it at the time of those claims and the evidence that it has now seen in terms of the 
companies he was working for and the income he received. I agree with St Andrews that Mr 
Ts responses have been unsatisfactory.
Mr T says that it is just a misunderstanding. However, St Andrews has given him the 
opportunity to correct any misunderstanding, but he has so far failed to provide any plausible 
explanations to address St Andrews concerns or provide any persuasive evidence to 
support his position. The documentation that St Andrews has asked for should be easily 
available to Mr T, such as copies of his Barclays bank statements and his contract of 
employment.
Based on the available evidence, I find it reasonable that St Andrews has declined Mr Ts 
claim, cancelled his policy and is seeking recovery of the amounts Mr T received for the two 
previous claims, in accordance with the policy terms stated above. It follows that I do not 
uphold Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman