DRN-3553437
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declining to reimburse part of the costs 
within a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to Covea include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs D took her dog to the vet for treatment of a dermatitis condition. The 
treatment, including medication prescribed, was similar to previous times the dog was 
treated for the condition. A claim for the cost of treatment (£317.51) was submitted to Covea.
The following month Covea contacted Mrs D to say the claim had been accepted  but that a 
sum of £156.67 had been deducted from the payment made to Mrs D. Mrs D contacted 
Covea to find out why the sum had been deducted. Covea said £28.38 was the [percentage] 
excess amount due against each claim under the policy and £18.00 for prescription charges 
(which werent covered under the policy). The balance of £110.29 was in respect of one vial 
of a specific drug (that was administered by injection). 
Mrs Ds policy had renewed in April 2021, but she cancelled it in late October 2021 (after the 
date of treatment, but before the claim was made). At renewal the policy conditions changed, 
including a percentage excess on claims and prescription charges were no longer covered. 
But Mrs D wasnt happy about the deduction of the vial of drug. The drug came in packs of 
two (£220.57 per pack). One vial was administered at the time of the dogs treatment by the 
vet, the second was to be administered at a later date (again by the vet). 
Mrs D was unhappy about Coveas deduction of prescription charges and the second vial of 
the drug, so she complained to Covea.
Covea didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said Mrs D had renewed the 
policy in April 2021, after having the opportunity to decide whether it continued to meet her 
needs and she was content with the terms and conditions of the policy being renewed. On 
the claim submitted by Mrs D, Covea noted two injections of the specific drug had been 
included. Covea said that the second injection (using the second vial) hadnt been 
administered until November 2021 (so after the cancellation of the policy). Based on this 
Covea said as Mrs Ds policy wasnt in place at the time of the second injection, they 
wouldnt cover the cost. On the prescription charges, Covea referred to the policy terms and 
conditions that excluded the cost of a prescription (being written or dispensed). 
Unhappy at Coveas response, Mrs D complained to this service. She said the deduction for 
the vial of the drug was unfair as they came in packs of two and Covea hadnt said the drug 
had to be used before the change to her policy. The drug had to be stored and administered 
by the vet. While she accepted the cost of administering the drug subsequently wouldnt be 
covered under the policy, she said the deduction of the vial was unfair as it would have been 
purchased (as one of a pack of two) when the first vial was administered. She wanted Covea 
to reimburse the £110.29 cost of the vial.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ds complaint, concluding Covea hadnt acted fairly. He thought 
the fact the injections (the vial of the drug) had to be purchased in packs of two meant Mrs D 
had to purchase two injections (even had only one been required for treatment). Mrs Ds vet 
had confirmed the drug had to be purchased in packs of two. So, the pack was one product, 
purchased at the time of the first injection (when Mrs Ds policy was in place). So, Covea 
acted unfairly when treating the purchase as two separate products. To put things right, he 
thought Covea should reimburse Mrs D the £110.29 deducted from her claim in respect of 
the second vial. He also thought interest should be added to the amount from the date of Mrs 
Ds claim to the date Covea reimbursed the sum.
Covea disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, Covea said Mrs D cancelled her policy so cover for vet 
treatment ended at that point, as claims were paid on the basis of when the treatment was 
received. As the second injection didnt occur until nearly a month after the policy ended, the 
policy didnt cover that event. Had Mrs D taken out cover with another insurer after she 
cancelled her policy, she may have been able to make a claim for the injection under the 
new policy. Covea also referred to other scenarios where treatment takes place over time, 
for example hydrotherapy sessions and packs of tablets where one tablet a day was to be 
administered. In those circumstances, a claim would not be settled for the full course of 
sessions or the full cost of the box of tablets. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Covea have acted fairly towards Mrs D.
 
The main issue in Mrs Ds complaint is whether Covea acted fairly in declining her claim for 
the second injection (vial of drug used in the injection). Mrs D maintains she had to purchase 
the drug to be administered in packs of two, so she should be reimbursed for the full cost of 
the pack (not just one vial). Covea say that as the second injection wasnt administered until 
after shed cancelled her policy, there was no cover in place and therefore they acted fairly in 
deducting the £110.29 in respect of the second vial (the second injection). 
Thinking about the sequence of events and what happened, the substance of the complaint 
comes down to whether its fair and reasonable for the cost of treatment to be reimbursed at 
the point at which the treatment was charged (when the vet prescribed the pack of two vials 
of the drug to be administered through injection) or when the injections actually took place 
(one in October, when Mrs Ds policy was in place, and one in November, after shed 
cancelled the policy).
 
In thinking about this issue, Ive also considered what the policy terms and conditions set out 
regarding treatment and vet fees, as I think theyre relevant to the issue. The terms and 
conditions include the following definitions:
30. Treatment
Any examination, consultation, advice, tests, e-rays, medication, surgery, 
hospitalisation, nursing and care provided by either a veterinary practice or vet 
recommended complementary therapist.
31. Treatment date
The date your pet first received treatment for the illness or injury being claimed.34. Veterinary fees
The cost or expense of any treatment or amount vets in general or referral practices 
usually charge.
35. Veterinary Treatment
The cost of the following when required to treat an illness or injury:
Any examination, consultation, advice, test, x-ray, surgery and nursing carried 
out by a vet, a veterinary nurse or another member of the veterinary practice 
under the supervision of a vet, and
Any medication legally prescribed by a vet. This includes physiotherapy (not 
including hydrotherapy) carried out by a veterinary practice or a 
physiotherapist and treatment of a behavioural illness carried out by a 
veterinary practice of a behaviourist.
Looking at these definitions, in the context of the case, I think its clear the treatment date is 
the date the dog was first seen (early October) and received treatment on that date, 
including administration (injection) of the first vial of the drug. I also think the treatment 
included the drug (to be administered by two injections) as part of the medication and 
therefore treatment.
 
Given what the vet has said about the drug coming as two vials, but in one pack, the 
veterinary fees in that case would be the cost of the pack (the amounts vets in general 
usually charge). Had the drug come in packs of one (vial) then Id have expected them to be 
charged by the date they were administered (injected). In that scenario, Id have agreed with 
Coveas view. But thats not the case here (and Covea havent challenged the vets practice 
of supplying the drug in packs of two). 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded Covea havent acted fairly in declining 
that element of Mrs Ds claim relating to the second vial (injection). Given this, to put things 
right, Covea should reimburse Mrs D for the £110.29 they deducted from her claim in 
respect of the second vial (injection). Covea should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple 
on the amount from the date of their original deduction from payment of the claim, to the 
date Mrs D tells us she accepts my final decision (if she accepts it). 
While Mrs D also complained to Covea about the reduction for the prescription fees (£18) 
she didnt include that element in her complaint to this service. So, I havent considered that 
point in detail  though from the policy terms and conditions I think Covea acted in 
accordance with the policy in deducting those charges. Similarly, Mrs D didnt include the 
percentage excess deduction, so I havent considered that element.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance plc to:
Reimburse Mrs D for the £110.29 they deducted from her claim in respect of the 
second vial (injection).
Covea Insurance plc should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount from the 
date of their original deduction from payment of the claim, to the date Mrs D tells us she 
accepts my final decision (if she accepts it). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman