DRN-2286590
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited has asked her to 
repay its costs for settling a claim against her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Watford includes its agents. 
What happened
Mrs N was in an accident when her car hit the back of another. She told Watford about the 
incident and it told her that shed be held at fault for the accident. Mrs N had third party, fire 
and theft cover and as such didn't claim for the damage to her own car. 
Mrs N told Watford that she was driving home from work at the time of the accident. Watford 
settled the other drivers (the third partys) claim. But it told Mrs N that her policy didn't cover 
her for commuting. So it said she would have to repay it the sums it had paid to settle the 
third party claim of around £7,318.
Mrs N didn't think that was fair and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. Eventually he concluded that Watford hadn't dealt with the matter fairly. So he 
said it should: cover the costs of the third partys claim, less any excess and amount Mrs N 
would have had to pay to amend the policy to cover commuting; pay her £100 compensation 
for her trouble and upset; and to reimburse Mrs N any sums shed paid to it in respect of the 
claim. 
Watford didn't agree with our investigators assessment so the complaint's been passed to 
me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Mrs N applied for her policy through a price comparison website. When she did so she had 
to say what she used her car for. Her options at the time were (amongst others):
 Social only
 Social including commuting to a single place of work
 Business use by you
Mrs N selected social only and Watford insured her on that basis. That meant the policy 
only covered her if she used her car for social, domestic and pleasure journeys. It didn't 
cover her for journeys to and from work.
Mrs N told Watford that she didn't usually use her car to get to and from work. She said she 
only did so on the day in question because she was under time pressure. In other words 
when she applied for the policy she correctly said what she usually used her car for, that is 
social purposes only. But on the day of the accident her circumstances had changed and 
she needed to use the car to get to work. So what Mrs N should have done was to contact 
Watford, via her broker, and tell it her circumstances had changed and ask it if it would cover 
her for her journey to and from work. But Mrs N didn't do that.
We asked Watford if it would have covered Mrs N for commuting had she asked for that. It 
told us that it would have done so and that it wouldn't have charged her any additional 
premium for doing so. But it said her broker would have charged her to update the policy. So 
theres no question that Watford would have accepted the risk of Mrs N commuting to and 
from work had she said she needed that cover. And the only difference to Watford was 
whether or not it included that information on Mrs Ns insurance policy details. But because 
Mrs N didn't say she may occasionally need to use her car to travel to work when she took 
out the policy, or contact it on the day in question to ask it to add commuting Watford refused 
to cover the costs of the claim. It then asked her to repay to it the sums it had paid out to 
settle the third partys claim. 
Clearly Mrs N made a mistake in not telling Watford that she was going to use her car to 
travel to and from work. As such I accept that, under the strict terms of the policy, it  didn't 
cover her at the time of the accident. But its also clear that Mrs N wasn't aware of that, as 
she was quite open that she was using her car to drive home from work when she first 
reported the accident. So I think Mrs N made a genuine mistake in not realising that her 
policy didn't cover her for that specific journey. And if shed asked Watford for that cover it 
would have happily provided it, albeit that the broker of the policy is likely to have charged 
her £50 for making that amendment. In other words the premium that Mrs N had already 
paid to Watford would have covered the risk for her using her car to travel to and from work. 
So, I don't think its fair that Mrs Ns mistake in not including commuting cover at the point 
she needed it should expose her to the full liabilities for the accident.
It follows that I think Watford should cover Mrs N for the liabilities arising from the accident. 
So Watford should accept responsibility for settling the third partys claim. In other words it 
should cease pursuing Mrs N for its outlay to do so. And, if Mrs N has repaid any of that sum 
in the meantime, Watford should reimburse her.
Further I'm aware that the situation, not least being told that she needed to find over £7,000 
in a matter of two weeks, has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mrs N. To 
address that I think Watford should pay Mrs N £100 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to:
Cover the costs of the third partys claim, less any amount Mrs N would have had to 
pay to it to amend the policy. 
Refund to Mrs N any sums she's already paid to Watford to reimburse it for the claim 
settlement.
Pay her £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Joe ScottOmbudsman