DRN-2889270
The complaint
Mr A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs on-line app not working correctly when he 
tried to switch his bank account to them.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr A attempted to switch his bank account to Barclays using their on-line 
app.
Part-way through the process, Mr A got an error message saying the bank he was with at 
the time didnt support switching through the app.
He then contacted his bank and after hed waited for 30 minutes or so on the phone, they 
confirmed they did in fact support switching via the app.
Mr A made a complaint to Barclays. They logged this as a concern rather than a complaint 
and so didnt get Back to Mr A as theyd promised.
Mr A made a second complaint about both the original issue with the app and Barclays 
failure to respond properly to his complaint.
Barclays apologised to Mr A. They said the original problem was due to a computer glitch, 
which theyd resolved within hours. And they admitted that the first complaint had been 
incorrectly logged.
Mr A wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. He felt Barclays 
should compensate him for the stress and inconvenience hed suffered and for the time hed 
spent raising the issue  and chasing for a response - with his former bank and then with 
Barclays.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr A disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute at all about the facts in this case. The only real question for me to 
consider is whether Barclays should pay compensation for Mr As trouble and upset.
Its clear the service Mr A received from Barclays wasnt perfect. I can see why he would be 
annoyed that a glitch had caused his switch to fail at the first time of asking. And I can 
understand why hes upset that his complaint wasnt handled well at first.
However, I also have to take into account the fact that the switch was implemented, as Mr A 
wanted. And it was implemented within the timeframe Barclays promise. The glitch was 
resolved within hours.
Mr A spoke to his former bank over the phone. He could have checked on their website and 
on Barclays website and seen that they both supported this kind of switch. And I cant hold 
Barclays responsible for the time Mr A waited on the phone.
Barclays also provided a full response to Mr A.s complaint, albeit that he had to chase them 
remind them hed made a complaint and was awaiting a response.
Barclays have apologised for their errors. Given the impact these errors had an Mr A, I think 
an apology is sufficient in all the circumstances.
Mr A didnt lose out financially or in any other way. His switch was delayed very slightly but 
then carried out within the timeframes offered by Barclays. And he had to make a call to 
prompt a response to his first complaint.
I can see why this was annoying for Mr A, but I dont think the impact on him has been so 
serious as to merit financial compensation for his trouble and upset. Im satisfied Barclays 
acted fairly and reasonably in offering an explanation and an apology. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman