The complaint
Mr Gs car was stolen, and he claimed on his motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited. Hes unhappy with the amount Admiral paid him for the value of his car.
What happened
Mr Gs car was stolen in January 2020 and never recovered. He claimed against his motor 
insurance policy and Admiral paid him £5,170, based on three of the trade guides usually 
used for valuing vehicles.
Mr G was unhappy with the amount he received, because he couldnt buy a like-for-like 
replacement car with the money. He complained to Admiral, who thought the amount they 
paid him was fair. They didnt increase the payment, so Mr G brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator explained we dont tell businesses how to value cars, but wed expect them 
do this fairly. And we can carry out our own valuations to see if the valuation the business 
used was fair and reasonable.
The investigator obtained valuations from four trade guides. And based on the age, mileage 
and condition of Mr Gs car when it was stolen, he said the average value of these guides 
was £5,350.25. So he said Admiral should pay Mr G an additional £180.25 plus interest.
Admiral agreed with the investigator, but Mr G didnt. He said he paid a large amount of 
money each year to insure his car, and he expects to be paid out now his cars been stolen. 
But the amount Admiral have paid, and the increase the investigator has recommended, 
means he can not buy any vehicle similar or near similar to my stolen car. So hes asked 
for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Mr G has said he cant buy a like-for-like car for the money hes been offered. But, when 
looking to buy a car, Mr G will see only the advertised selling prices. And this isnt 
necessarily what the car will be sold for. But the trade guides are based on actual achieved 
sale prices, not on advertised selling prices. And they take into consideration factors such as 
age, mileage and condition. So when considering this complaint, I think its reasonable that 
trade guides are used to give a fair reflection of the value of a vehicle, not selling prices.
DRN-1868221And Mr G was insured for the Market Value of his car, which Admiral defined in Mr Gs policy 
terms as being the cost of replacing your car with one of a similar make, model, year, 
mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. So I dont think 
Admiral did anything wrong by using the trade guides to get the market value of Mr Gs car.
At the time it was stolen, Mr Gs car was around 9 years old, and had done around 130,000 
miles. Admiral said they used three trade guides, which gave them the following values for 
Mr Gs car:
Glasss Guide - £5,170
CAP - £5,020
Parkers - £4,125
Based on these valuations, Admiral paid Mr G £5,170.
I havent seen the actual valuations Admiral used, but I have seen the ones the investigator 
used when reaching his view. These were all based on Mr Gs actual car (the registration 
number was used), and they were as follows:
Glasss Guide - £5,350
CAP - £5,150
Parkers  £5,350
Carzana - £5,431
Because no trade guide is any better than any of the others, I think its fair to value Mr Gs 
car on an average of these values, and not by choosing any one value in particular. The 
average of the four values is £5,320.25 - £150.25 more than Admiral paid Mr G.
Putting things right
The investigator recommended that Admiral pay Mr G the difference between the two 
valuations. But hed miscalculated the average of the valuations as £5,350.25. Which meant 
he asked Admiral to pay Mr G £180.25 plus interest, instead of £150.25 plus interest.
I agree that Admiral should pay the difference to Mr G. And Ive noted theyve already paid 
him £182.91. In my decision I can tell Admiral to do something, but I cant make Mr G do 
anything. So I cant tell him to refund Admiral the £30 plus interest he was overpaid because 
of the miscalculation.
And the investigators view clearly detailed the valuation figures used. So Admiral had the 
opportunity to query the calculation of the average values the investigator used when they 
provided their comments. But they didnt do so. Because of this, I wont be asking Admiral to 
do anything more in resolution of Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Gs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.Andrew Burford
Ombudsman