DRN-1908680
The complaint
Mr K and Mr R complain about Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) 
for declining their claim for water damage at their tenanted property. They want Ocaso to 
pay their claim and reimburse them for lost rent and Council Tax while the claim has been 
ongoing. 
What happened
Mr K and Mr R  jointly own a single storey property, which is usually let to a tenant. 
In 2019, the property was tenanted, and Mr K and Mr R were pursuing rent arrears from the 
tenant. Their managing agent made attempts to contact the tenant to carry out inspections of 
the property. 
In October 2019, the managing agent was able to visit the property and found that it had 
been abandoned by the tenant at some earlier point. They discovered significant water 
damage throughout the property. 
Mr K and Mr R submitted a claim to Ocaso, for flood damage. 
Ocaso appointed a loss adjuster, who attended the property and concluded that the damage 
was not as a result of surface water flooding, but instead was the result of continuous water 
penetration from a damaged flat roof.
Mr K and Mr R complained and submitted evidence showing flooding in the location of the 
property, which had taken place in July 2019. This showed that parts of the same street had 
been affected by flooding. 
Ocaso did not accept that there was sufficient evidence of flooding and maintained its 
decision to reject the claim. Mr K and Mr R were unhappy with this and contacted us. They 
also felt that the delay in Ocaso responding to the claim meant that they had not been able 
to have remedial work undertaken and so had not been able to find a replacement tenant 
and had incurred costs. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out her view to the parties. 
This was that Ocaso had not acted unreasonably in declining the claim as there was no 
evidence of a flood occurring on a particular date, and there was not a clear external tide 
mark to indicate that the water had reached a high point in a single event. 
Mr K and Mr R did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Mr K and Mr Rs upset. The damage to their investment property 
appears extensive and they were not made aware of it until a late stage. They have also 
incurred losses from their tenant leaving and from not being able to re-let the property 
quickly. 
I can also understand why they consider that surface water flooding may be responsible, 
given that there is evidence of flooding having occurred nearby in summer of 2019. 
On the evidence available, however, I agree with the investigators view and do not think 
there is sufficient evidence to show that Ocaso was wrong to decline the claim. 
Mr K and Mr Rs insurance policy included the peril of flood, but it excludes gradually 
operating causes and gradual deterioration. 
It is accepted that the flat roof was in need of repair and that some water penetrated through 
the roof and through a window. Mr K and Mr R do not believe that the damage could be 
predominantly from this roof, however, as the damage was too extensive. 
Ocaso has provided photographs of the roof and its loss adjusters view showing that water 
had entered through the roof and window. This appears to have taken place over multiple 
instances of rainfall, rather than in one single event. 
Ocaso has also stated that they spoke with neighbours who confirmed that during the 
flooding in July 2019 water reached the gardens at the rear of the property but did not 
penetrate further. 
No evidence of a single event has been provided to demonstrate that a flood took place at 
the particular property. I appreciate that this would be difficult for Mr K and Mr R to obtain as 
they live some distance from the property and the tenant left without notice, but without 
evidence of an insured event taking place I do not think that Ocaso is wrong to decline the 
claim on the basis of its loss adjusters assessment of the damage and circumstances. 
I understand that this view will be disappointing to Mr K and Mr R, but for the reasons set out 
above, and articulated by the investigator, I do not uphold the complaint. 
1My final decision
For the reasons give n above I do not uphold Mr K and Mr Rs complaint and do not ask 
OCaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman