DRN-3264308
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr M holds with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). 
Hes unhappy that the figures on his account dont match the Key Features Illustration (KFI) 
issued when he changed products in 2021. He also says theres been a discrepancy in the 
account balance going back to 2014. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr M and TMW. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are published, 
and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr M being 
identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
TMW issued a final response to the complaint in June 2021; it explained that the difference 
in balance between the KFI and the product offer was simply down to normal time-to-time 
variations in the account balance. And at that stage, it didnt think anything was wrong going 
back to 2014. When the case came to us, our investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. 
Mr M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman; he also complained about 
the way our investigator had dealt with the case. Whilst that was going on, TMW revisited 
Mr Ms concerns about a possible historic discrepancy. It wrote to him again in 
December 2021, agreeing there had been an error at the end of 2013. It made an 
adjustment to remedy this, but Mr M isnt confident he can rely on the action TMW has taken 
as being right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
The complaint Mr M has made about how our investigator has dealt with his complaint is a 
service matter. Its been looked at by a manager, and a response has been provided, along 
with information on the next steps Mr M can take if he wishes to pursue the service 
complaint further. My review is entirely separate from that; I deal solely with the underlying 
dispute between Mr M and TMW.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
By going back to recheck the historical position, and then correcting things when it belatedly 
realised an error had taken place, TMW made an amendment to put things right. Thats what 
Id expect a business to do.
I appreciate Mr M is frustrated at not being able to satisfy himself that his mortgage has been 
recalculated correctly. But not being sure if things are correct isnt the same as having good 
reason to believe they are incorrect; and Mr M hasnt provided any substantive argument as 
to why he thinks his mortgage is still wrong following the amendments TMW made in 
December 2021. 
But that doesnt mean Mr M has to take TMWs word that everything is correct. If Mr M has a 
real and substantive belief (based on something other his frustration at not being able to 
verify things himself) that his account still isnt right, it is open to him to arrange for the 
account to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. Thats not a service we 
provide.
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one to be reopened. I make the latter point because TMW would need to be 
presented with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond 
to it. 
Mr M would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were to his 
detriment, we would then expect TMW to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit as well 
as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand, the 
available evidence doesnt give me reason to think that TMW hasnt taken sufficient steps to 
remedy the errors on Mr Ms mortgage account from 2013. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman