DRN-3209391
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
1994. Mr A says MBNA Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include the PPI 
policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all 
of this information here - but I think it likely the policy excluded mental health claims and 
imposed more onerous evidential conditions for claims relating to back problems.
Mr A was employed at the time of the sale, had been there for some years and has told us 
he didnt have anything like savings to help pay his card if he couldnt work. He hasnt told us 
of having been entitled to any work sickness or redundancy pay.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr As representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. Mr A also asked for his complaint to continue. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr A says the PPI was just included with his card. But his postal application form for the 
card had a separate Payment Protection Insurance section for the PPI, with boxes to 
tick to say either yes or no to the cover. On Mr As form, which he signed to take the 
card, the yes box is ticked  and I think he wouldve known to tick the no box instead if 
he didnt want the cover. Also, nothing on the form said the PPI had to be taken. Overall, 
I think MBNA made it clear Mr A didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for him. But it did have to give him enough clear and timely information so he 
could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it, and I dont think he wouldve taken it 
without at least a broad understanding of the cover it provided - so it looks to me like he 
wanted this type of cover. His job situation wouldnt have made it hard for him to claim 
and he hadnt any health issues the policy excluded. He wasnt affected by the significant 
exclusions or limits on the cover  and it wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Although it 
wasnt the whole story, the application form also told him the cover would cost 65p per 
month per £100 of balance outstanding  and it looks like this was affordable.
Overall, I dont think it likely the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr A, from the 
information he had, thought he was buying. Ive nothing to suggest he wouldve got any 
more than statutory pay from his employer for sickness or redundancy - and hes told us 
he didnt have anything else, like savings, to pay his card if he couldnt work. So the PPI 
benefit wouldve been useful for him. With this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont 
think Mr A wouldve declined the cover had MBNA done anything more in terms of the 
information it provided.
While I think it likely the policy did contain limitations or exclusions on claims relating to 
back and mental health problems, excluding claims for mental health issues for example, 
in light of Mr As circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and 
exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him  and I think he wouldve still 
thought he had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr A wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting and, given his circumstances, I think it couldve provided a useful 
benefit at what couldve been a difficult time if hed lost his job or become too sick to work. 
And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant MBNA should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Im grateful to Mr A for his courtesy and attention throughout our consideration of this matter.my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman