DRN-4147852
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Aldermore Bank Plc treated them unfairly when they applied for 
a mortgage with it.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all here. 
But as a summary, Mr and Mrs S feel Aldermore Bank failed to progress their mortgage 
application as they should have. They feel it added delays which resulted in the mortgage 
application expiring and Mr and Mrs S lost out on the rate they were hoping to achieve. The 
situation caused a great deal of distress to Mr and Mrs S which they say impacted their day 
to day lives.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and agreed that Aldermore had caused some 
delays. But he didnt agree its actions were the likely cause of the mortgage not completing 
ahead of the application expiry date. For the impact of the delays it had caused, he asked 
that it pay Mr and Mrs S £200  this was an increase of £100 previously offered by 
Aldermore.
Aldermore accepted this recommendation, but Mr and Mrs S did not. They didnt think this 
fairly reflects the loss they feel theyve incurred as a result of the delay. They say they are 
now paying more interest than they would have had the mortgage application completed 
sooner. And the distress and inconvenience experienced was considerable. Overall they 
dont feel £200 is fair and they asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed by this as it falls someway short of the outcome they are 
hoping for, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
It isnt disputable that there has been delays in the application made by Mr and Mrs S, but 
Im not persuaded that the actions of Aldermore resulted in this going beyond the point of the 
application expiring. Aldermore says it allows 50 days for an application to be completed. If 
not completed within this time, the application is closed. Mr and Mrs Ss application hadnt 
been completed within this timeframe, but I dont think it is fair to say this is because of 
Aldermore and its actions.
Mr and Mrs Ss application was started at the beginning of October 2021. As part of the 
application, Mr and Mrs S needed to appoint a solicitor to act for them with their conveyance. 
Aldermore wrote to the solicitor to explain it was not on its residential conveyancing panel. It 
did this on 6 October, 18 October and 20 December 2021, each time it explained what the 
solicitor needed to do to apply to join the panel. If the solicitor didnt wish to join, Aldermore 
needed to let Mr and Mrs S know so they could arrange for an alternative firm to act for 
them. The solicitor didnt make an application to join the panel until 22 December 2021 and 
by this point, Mr and Mrs Ss application had already expired.
Aldermore didnt tell Mr and Mrs S that their application had expired as quickly as they could 
have. But I dont think this changes the fact that it expired because their solicitor hadnt 
requested to join the panel as was needed.
Mr and Mrs S feel the rate of their mortgage has increased because of Aldermore but I dont 
agree this is the case. Their mortgage application couldnt be completed because of 
Aldermore waiting for the third-party solicitor to do what it needed to and until this happened, 
Aldermore couldnt complete the application and provide a full offer. 
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs S have said about the stress they experienced when trying to 
secure the mortgage for their property. It is clear this was a difficult time, but I think the 
reason for their application expiring and needing to be resubmitted was because their 
solicitor was not on Aldermores residential conveyancing panel and they failed to join this 
when first asked.
Aldermore could have progressed other elements of the application more quickly and told Mr 
and Mrs S sooner that their application had expired and needed re-submitting. But I agree 
with our investigator that a recommendation of £200 to reflect the impact of this is fair. 
Putting things right
Aldermore Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs S £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused when it added delays to their mortgage process. If it has already paid the £100 
offered in its final response, it only needs to pay the remaining £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman