DRN-1971488
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that TSB Bank plc failed to pay a direct debit which she had instructed. 
Miss M is also unhappy that there was a delay in setting up a power of attorney on her 
account.
Miss M has been representing in bringing this complaint by a family member. For ease of 
reading though  Ill refer to all comments and submissions as being made by her directly.
What happened
In May 2019 a direct debit mandate was received by TSB from the local city council, having 
been forwarded following Miss M completing the mandate and sending it to the local city 
council. Unfortunately, this direct debit mandate was dated incorrectly, with the year having 
been dated as 1989. This meant that the mandate was invalid and that the direct debit could 
not be set up as requested. So, TSB returned the direct debit mandate to the local city 
council and advised that a new direct debit mandate would need to be supplied.
Because no replacement mandate was supplied, the direct debit was not set up, and no 
payment was made. In July 2019, Miss M raised a complaint with TSB that the direct debit 
payment had not been made. Miss M was also unhappy that, when her representative called 
TSB to discuss this matter with them, TSB said that they were unable to speak with him as 
they didnt have the appropriate authorisation on file.
TSB looked into the complaint and issued a final response to Miss M in August 2019. 
Unfortunately, TSB didnt investigate the correct direct debit payment at this time. However, 
they were confident that they had not acted improperly with regard to the direct debit 
payment which they did investigate, and they didnt think that they had acted improperly 
when declining to speak with Miss Ms representative, and so they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Miss M was not satisfied with TSBs response and so she referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, and because TSB had initially investigated 
the incorrect direct debit this led our investigator to look at the incorrect direct debit also. And 
the initial assessment of our investigator when looking at that wrong direct debit was also 
that TSB had not acted improperly, and so they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Miss M then provided further information to our service, which led to the discovery that the 
wrong direct debit had been investigated by both TSB and our investigator. Our investigator 
relayed this information to TSB, who were then able to look into the correct direct debit, and 
who then explained that the direct debit mandate which was being complained about had 
been returned to the local city council because the mandate hadnt been dated correctly. 
TSB noted that they had never received a replacement direct debit mandate from the local 
city council, and once again concluded that they hadnt done anything wrong. And our 
investigator agreed with TSBs conclusion.
Miss M remained dissatisfied and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has raised a number of points in relation to this complaint and the surrounding 
circumstances, but Ill be focussing on what I feel is key to deciding the complaint. That 
means my decision might not go into the detail Miss M would like, but if I havent directly 
referenced something that doesnt mean I havent considered it. I have read and taken into 
consideration everything both sides have provided here. But Ill only refer to what I think it 
relevant to deciding whats fair in this instance, which is in line with our role as a quick and 
informal service.
I can understand Miss Ms frustration at how this complaint has unfolded, and its regrettable 
that so much time was spent with both TSB and this service investigating the wrong direct 
debit. I can see that the reason for the confusion was that Miss M had two separate direct 
debits with the local city council, one of which was for Miss Ms council tax payments. 
I have listened to the call recording of when the complaint was initially raised with TSB, and I 
can understand why TSB believed that it was the council tax direct debit that was being 
complained about. I say this because specific reference wasnt made to exactly what the 
direct debit was for, only that it was in relation to a payment from the local city council. Given 
that direct debits to local councils are primarily paid toward council tax, I cant fairly say that 
TSB were solely responsible for mistakenly directing their initial investigation toward Miss 
Ms council tax direct debit, instead of the other, correct direct debit, at that time.
With regard to the correct direct debit, the mandate supplied by TSB confirms that it had 
unfortunately been dated incorrectly. This meant that the mandate was invalid as received 
by TSB and so it was appropriate that they returned that mandate to the local city council 
and requested that they arrange for a replacement mandate to be sent to them. TSB have 
no record of a replacement mandate being received.
Miss M has also complained that TSB refused to speak with her representative despite a 
power of attorney being in place to enable him to speak on her behalf. However, it appears 
that TSB hadnt been made aware of the power of attorney at the time that the telephone call 
being complained about took place, and I can see that TSB did log the details of the power 
attorney within a few days of the appropriate documents confirming this being sent to them.
Considering all of the above, its difficult for me to say that TSB acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. I understand that this may not be the outcome Miss M was hoping for 
and I acknowledge that some of the correspondence that she has received from TSB leading 
up to this complaint, such as final demand notices, may have been upsetting for her. But its 
notable and regrettable here that for the majority of this complaint process Miss M and TSB 
have been communicating at cross purposes because of the confusion about which direct 
debit was actually being complained about. 
So, while it is regrettable that Miss M received final demand notices, TSB were acting in 
good faith at the time that they sent them, and so I cant fairly censure them for doing so. 
Once the correct nature of the complaint was understood, TSB have been able to 
demonstrate that they acted appropriately, as I have detailed above. And so, because of 
this, I wont be upholding this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman