DRN-3881652
The complaint
Mr V complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) issued him a cash payment instead of 
bonus shares as the incentive for its OwnWise programme.
To put matters right, Mr V wants Wise to compensate him for the additional costs he will 
incur if he now uses the money he received to purchase Wise shares. He would also like it to 
compensate him for having to hold any shares he purchases outside his ISA wrapper and for 
any increase in the share price.
What happened
I understand that in mid-2021, Mr V was invited to participate in OwnWise. The offer set out 
that if investors bought and held shares in Wise for 12 months they would receive bonus 
shares. They would receive 5% of the initial value of the shares purchased in bonus 
shares, up to a maximum value of £100, per customer.
In order to participate in the offer Mr V bought shares in Wise, provided Wise with proof of 
his shareholding and then held the shares for 12 months.
In May and June 2022, Wise contacted Mr Vs stockbroker to arrange a bulk transfer of the 
bonus shares to all the eligible shareholders who used the stockbroker. Unfortunately, it was 
unable to make arrangements for the bulk transfer of the shares to Mr Vs stockbroker. 
As it was unable to arrange for the shares to be transferred to Mr Vs stockbroker, Wise sent 
Mr V the cash value of the shares he would have received if it had been able to arrange to 
transfer the shares to Mr Vs stockbroker.
Mr V complained to Wise. He said, in summary, that he felt it should have done more to 
arrange the transfer of the shares. He said he had lost out financially as the share price had 
increased and he will incur dealing costs if he uses the cash he received to buy additional 
shares. He also noted that he held the Wise shares in an ISA wrapper, so had lost out on the 
tax advantages he would have benefitted from if the bonus shares had been allocated to his 
ISA.
Wise did not uphold Mr Vs complaint. It explained that it had made several attempts to 
arrange the bulk transfer of the shares to Mr Vs stockbroker but hadnt received a reply. As 
it hadnt been able to arrange for Mr V, or any other shareholder who used the same 
stockbroker as Mr V, to receive the shares it said that, in line with the terms and conditions 
for Wises shareholder program it had instead provided Mr V with a cash incentive rather 
than a bonus share incentive.
Mr V was not satisfied with Wises response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator said that he didnt think Mr Vs complaint should be upheld as Wise had 
tried to contact Mr Vs stockbroker to arrange a bulk transfer but had not been able to make 
the necessary arrangements. He said he was satisfied that it had acted in-line with its terms 
and conditions when it had paid Mr V a cash incentive as it was unable to arrange for the 
bonus shares to be transferred to Mr Vs stockbroker.
Mr V was not satisfied with our investigators view. He said he felt Wise should have given 
me opportunity to resolve any problems which stopped them from issuing bonus shares 
instead of unilaterally deciding that they will provide cash. He said his stockbroker had told 
Wise to follow proper channels but it had failed to do so.
Mr V also reiterated that he had lost out financially as he had received cash rather than 
bonus shares.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Vs position, but I dont think Wise has acted incorrectly in this matter 
or treated Mr V unfairly. Ill explain why.
Wise has provided this service with evidence to show that it made several attempts, both by 
telephone and email, to contact Mr Vs stockbroker in May and June 2022. Despite this it 
appears that Mr Vs stockbroker did not engage with Wise. I cant reasonably find that Wise 
was required to do more than it did to engage with Mr Vs stockbroker.
I appreciate that Mr V feels Wise should have contacted him and given him the  
opportunity to resolve any problems which stopped them from issuing bonus shares instead 
of unilaterally deciding that they will provide cash. However, there was no requirement on 
Wise to contact Mr V to see if he could liaise with his stockbroker on its behalf. And even if 
Wise had contacted Mr V about the difficulty it was having contacting his stockbroker, I am 
mindful that Wise needed to arrange a bulk transfer of the shares, not individual transfers to 
shareholders. Mr V would not have been in a position to require his stockbroker to respond 
to Wise about a bulk transfer.
I appreciate that Mr V feels he has lost out financially but the terms and conditions for the 
OwnWise offer set out: 
3.2 By registering your interest, you as the applicant shall:
3.2.10 I agree that Wise reserves the right to alter any arrangements in connection with 
OwnWise (including the criteria or timetable for the grant of any OwnWise benefits and these 
terms and conditions);
In view of this, I cant reasonably find that Wise was not permitted to make a cash payment 
to Mr V for the value of the shares he would have received if it had been able to arrange for 
the bonus shares to be transferred to his stockbroker.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr V was hoping for. But, having carefully 
considered this matter I am satisfied that Wise made reasonable efforts to contact Mr Vs 
stockbroker to arrange for the bonus shares to be transferred. As it was not able to arrange 
the transfer, in line with the terms and conditions of the OwnWise offer, I am satisfied that 
Wise was permitted to alter any arrangements in connection with OwnWise and issue a 
cash payment instead of the bonus shares.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman