DRN-4482909
The complaint
Ms B and the estate of Mrs B complain about the service they received from U K Insurance 
Limited. 
What happened
Ms B and her late mother were on holiday when Mrs B became unwell. She was hospitalised 
and then transferred to a hospital in another country. Sadly, Mrs B died whilst abroad and 
the cremation took place in the country where she died. 
Ms B has made two complaints. The first was in relation to the inconvenience she was put 
through whilst abroad including transport, language barrier, phone bills, not taking concerns 
about her mothers health into account and being provided with incorrect information. The 
second was about missing the final funeral prayers due to transport issues. Ms B says that 
not all the full prayers were completed. 
UKI offered a total of £450 compensation before Ms B made a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Ms B didnt accept that compensation. Following Ms B referring her 
complaint UKI offered a further £300 compensation and to review any outstanding expenses.  
Our investigator looked into what happened. She acknowledged there had been a number of 
issues during the time that Ms Bs mother had been unwell, particularly in relation to 
transportation of Ms B to a hospital and the cremation. However, overall, she thought the 
£750 recommended was fair. 
Ms B didnt agree. She highlighted that there were two complaints and felt theyd been 
merged into one. She asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. So, I need to make a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI have a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. 
I appreciate that Ms B made two complaints and feels that theyve been merged into one. 
Although Im issuing one final decision, Ive still considered both the complaints Ms B has 
made. 
I have a lot of empathy for the circumstances which Ms B has described during the time that 
her mother became unwell. Its clear that this was, understandably, a difficult and stressful 
time. 
Complaint one
UKI has accepted a number of issues werent handled correctly. They include: 
Not booking a taxi to take her from one country to another when her mother was 
transferred to another hospital
Not arranging accommodation for Ms B which meant she arranged it herself  
Giving Ms B the incorrect details of the hospital her mother was travelling to
Failures in communicating with Ms B by her preferred method and meeting 
commitments theyd made to her. 
I also understand that she may have incurred other costs which may not yet have been 
considered by UKI. For example, in response to our investigators review of the complaint 
Ms B mentioned her phone bills.
UKI says that its compensated Ms B for the cost of her taxi when her mother was 
transferred. However, theyve said Ms B can contact them in relation to any other expenses 
incurred. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Complaint two
There were further issues in relation to Ms Bs transportation to the planned cremation. UKI 
said that the taxi was provided but acknowledged that as Ms B wasnt provided with the car 
or driver details, she couldnt have reasonably identified it. UKI also identified that the funeral 
directors had incorrectly told Ms B that her return flight to the UK wouldnt be covered. They 
apologised for the poor service and distress caused. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests it is most likely that a car was dispatched as planned. 
However, that doesnt change the fact that Ms B was unable to make contact with the driver 
and locate them. So, ultimately, she had to make her own way to the crematorium. I accept 
that Ms B wouldnt have taken another taxi if shed been able to locate the one that UKI had 
sent. UKI says its compensated Ms B for the cost of the taxi but will consider any further 
expenses she wants to submit for consideration.
This added to her stress and upset on an already very difficult day, and Ive also considered 
what shes said about the additional impact of there being a language barrier in a situation 
such as this. I think its understandable that she would have experienced considerable 
unnecessary distress and she had the inconvenience of having to make her own way to the 
cremation. 
Ms B says that she arrived much later than planned and so had less time to carry out the 
prayers she wanted to. This was because she left later than planned, due to the issue with 
the taxi, and there was traffic. I can appreciate how very upsetting this must have been as 
Ms B feels this impacted on her final prayers and goodbye to her mother. This could have 
been avoided if Ms B had been given better service by UKI.
 
Putting things right
Ive considered carefully what has happened and the impact Ms B has described. UKI 
offered £200 in relation to complaint one and £250 in relation to complaint two. As Ive 
outlined above, they later offered an additional £300 to bring the total compensation to £750. 
Ive thought about what Ms B has said about the distress shes been caused by the issues 
that Ive outlined above. I accept that the cumulative impact of all these mistakes had a considerable impact on Ms B including causing her significant inconvenience, distress, upset 
and worry. It meant she had to go to a lot of extra effort at an already difficult time. I think this 
has had a short term, and longer-term impact on her. I think the award of £750 fairly reflects 
the impact of this distress and inconvenience on Ms B.
I understand that £450 of compensation has already sent to Ms B. So, I think UKI should put 
things right by paying the further £300 compensation its since offered.  
My final decision
Im partly upholding Ms B and the estate of Mrs Bs complaint about U K Insurance Limited. 
They need to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and the 
estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman