DRN-3428191
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading 
as Audi Finance (VWFS) handled things when she returned a car shed acquired under a 
hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
Miss H acquired a new car under a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS in 
March 2016. She contacted VWFS in March 2020 as she wanted to hand it back. VWFS told 
Miss H she could do that once the final monthly instalment had been received. 
Miss H contacted VWFS the following month to say shed made her final payment. But she 
also highlighted the agreement shed entered into was a 48-month contract and that she 
thought shed paid 49 payments. So she wanted clarification on this. 
VWFS responded to Miss H and let her know that if she wanted to hand the car back it 
would need some information from her before passing things over to the collection agents. 
Other than an annual statement being sent in May 2020, I cant see anything happened until 
the following month when Miss H got back in touch with VWFS to enquire what was 
happening. She complained VWFS hadnt arranged to collect the car and that it hadnt 
responded to her query about the additional payments she thought shed made. At this point 
she thought shed made 49 payments when she was only supposed to have made 47. So 
she asked for two payments to be returned. She also said she was unhappy shed been told 
the balloon payment was outstanding. She wanted reassurance her credit file had not been 
impacted. 
VWFS wrote back to Miss H to ask for further information to verify it was speaking to the 
right person. Miss H complained. Later in June 2020 it looks like Miss H asked a 
representative to speak to VWFS to help sort things out. He told VWFS it should pay storage 
costs and that the car was now uninsured. 
I understand Miss Hs representative wrote to VWFS as well. And Miss H contacted it to say 
she was unhappy her complaint hadnt been resolved. VWFS sent its final response to 
Miss H in August 2020. It said the correct number of monthly rentals had been paid. And that 
due to the delay in the car being collected the balloon payment would show as outstanding 
and arrears letters would be sent. But once the car had been collected Miss Hs credit file 
would be rectified. However, it said it would offer £25 due to the experience she had. 
Miss Hs representative complained in October 2020 about the final response from what I 
can see. But VWFS told him he was an unauthorised representative. VWFS wrote to Miss H 
to let her know what information was required if she wanted to hand back the car. It was the 
same information it had requested back in April 2020. Miss H provided the information the 
same day, including the fact that the MOT had expired in March 2020. VWFS passed the 
request to its collection agents. 
From the evidence Ive been provided it looks like VWFS collection agents spoke to Miss H 
in October 2020 but the collection couldnt be arranged because the MOT had expired. 
Things seemed to stall over the next couple of months. VWFS says its collection agents 
were having difficulty contacting Miss H to arrange collection. Miss H said the car should be 
collected on a low loader as the car was uninsured and didnt have a valid MOT. I dont think 
VWFS initially wanted to arrange that, but it looks like this is what happened in February 
2021 when the car was collected. Around this time, the complaint was brought to our service 
to consider. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt make any recommendations. He said when 
Miss H initially contacted VWFS it was too soon for her to hand the car back. He couldnt see 
Miss H had responded to VWFS request for information to enable it to arrange to collect the 
car when it first asked for that. So he also didnt think VWFS acted unfairly by telling Miss H 
the balloon payment was due. 
Our investigator thought the more recent delay in collecting the car was mainly because the 
collection agents couldnt reach Miss H. So overall, our investigator didnt think VWFS was 
the primary cause of the delay in collection of the car. 
With regards to the overpayments Miss H mentioned, our investigator didnt think there was 
evidence shed overpaid. And finally, he didnt think VWFS should have to pay storage costs 
to her either. 
VWFS accepted the assessment, but Miss H didnt. In summary, she said:
She did respond to the information request in April 2020. 
Her credit file was still being negatively impacted despite being told it would be 
corrected when the car was handed back. 
The delays with the collection agents were caused because there was no authority 
from VWFS for the low loader. 
Storage costs of £25 per day were due. 
Shes unhappy with damage charges.
Shed been provided with another letter saying the balloon payment was due, despite 
the car having been handed back. 
Our investigator asked for evidence of Miss Hs response to the email in April 2020; 
evidence of the impact on her credit file; and evidence of any overpayments. He still didnt 
think VWFS should have to pay any storage costs and he said he could only investigate the 
complaint that had already been raised with VWFS. So anything new would have to be 
raised separately. 
Miss H responded to say: 
VWFS were supplied with all information at the time of the original request. 
She provided evidence of missed payments showing on her credit file and the recent 
letter shed received. 
Shed been responsive to the collection agents. 
Shed made 49 payments. 
Storage charges remained. 
Shed complained about the incorrect charges. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint that said:Miss H acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But Ive reviewed 
everything on file. If I dont comment on something, its not because I havent thought about 
it. Im focussing on what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
I think there are some key questions I need to ask myself to help me decide what, if 
anything, VWFS needs to do to put things right.
1. Has Miss H paid more towards the agreement than she needed to?
2. Has VWFS acted unfairly?
3. If so, should it compensate Miss H more than shes already been offered?
4. Does VWFS need to take any other action to resolve the complaint?
Turning to the first question. Miss Hs agreement said she was required to make 48 
payments before the optional balloon payment became due. Her first payment was made in 
April 2016. Which means, providing she kept up with her payments, the 48th would become 
due in March 2020. From what I can see, all payments were made on time, but the payment 
in March 2020 was rejected. This was why Miss H had to make another payment in April 
2020. But, based on the evidence Ive got, shes paid 48 payments in total. And not 49. So I 
dont think theres evidence Miss H has overpaid, or that VWFS needs to return any of her 
payments. 
Turning to the second question. Has VWFS acted unfairly? It took nearly a year for Miss Hs 
car to be returned. Which even when taking into account the impact Covid-19 had on firms, it 
seems longer than would reasonably be expected. Could VWFS have done more help 
Miss H hand the car back sooner? Based on what Ive seen I think it could have done more. 
But is it responsible for all the delays? Based on what Ive been I dont think it was. Ill 
explain why. 
When Miss H spoke to VWFS at the beginning of March 2020 her final payment hadnt been 
paid. It looks like VWFS wanted her to call back when shed made that payment, so the hand 
back collection couldve been started. I dont think this is that unusual. But VWFS arguably 
couldve done a bit more to help Miss H at this point. It couldve arranged a call back or 
given her details of the information it would need to start the hand back process. And Im 
mindful Miss H couldve voluntarily terminated the agreement at that point too. Although 
given the final payment was due within a few days its unlikely this wouldve put her in a 
significantly different position. 
In any event Miss H did contact VWFS when shed made the final payment, albeit in April 
2020. And at this point she queried the total payments shed made. VWFS responded to ask 
for the information it needed to start the hand back process. But it didnt answer Miss Hs 
question about the payments. So it missed an opportunity here to help. 
Ive not been provided evidence to show Miss H responded to VWFS request in April 2020. 
It wasnt until June that I can see she chased things up and queried the balloon payment. So 
I dont think VWFS can solely be blamed for the initial delays. 
There were further delays due to a combination of factors. VWFS was looking into Miss Hs 
complaint. And it looks like it didnt have a formal authority in place to deal with Miss Hs 
representative. So on the one hand, its fair VWFS was given some time to look into things. 
And its not unreasonable it needed formal authorisation to speak to a third party. And Im 
also mindful that firms service levels would have been impacted by Covid-19. But given a lot 
of the issues had started in April 2020, it wouldve been helpful had Miss H been informed sooner that VWFS still didnt have everything it needed to start the hand back process. A 
simple phone call or email to Miss H probably wouldve solved that. So I think VWFS 
couldve done more here to help. 
Ive next thought about what happened after VWFS was given the information it needed to 
start the hand back process. Further delays were caused because the collection agents 
couldnt arrange collection. This seems partly down to the agents not being able to easily 
speak to Miss H, but mainly down to the car requiring a low loader as it didnt have a valid 
MOT. Again, things arent straightforward here. VWFS should have known the car didnt 
have an MOT before passing the details to its collection agents. Miss H had told it. So I think 
this was another opportunity missed. 
Once the collection agents spoke to Miss H its clear she wanted to get things resolved. But 
the car was without an MOT. Having looked at the MOT history, it looks like the MOT had 
expired on 8 March 2020, which was before Miss H wouldve handed the car back, even had 
things gone to plan. I think the lack of a valid MOT was always going to cause some sort of 
issue or costs for Miss H. As it turned out, I dont think she arranged for an MOT or paid for a 
low loader. So while it took longer for the car to be picked up than it probably should have 
done, Miss H didnt have to bear the extra costs and I dont think VWFS can fairly be held 
liable for all the delays. 
In summary, I think there were instances where VWFS could have done more to help 
resolve things sooner. But I dont find its responsible for all the delays. VWFS offered £25 to 
Miss H in its final response. Its not clear she ever accepted this. Im not persuaded £25 
sufficiently recognises the inconvenience caused that Ive set out above. And things have 
moved on since then. I think a fairer amount for VWFS to pay Miss H in all the 
circumstances is a total of £100. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont find VWFS needs to pay Miss H any storage costs. While 
I can appreciate it mightve been inconvenient having to keep the car at home longer than 
shed like, as far as I know she hasnt incurred a financial loss for doing so. And for the 
reasons given above, I dont think all the delays are down to VWFS.
Ive finally thought about whether VWFS needs to take any other action. I think the last thing 
I need to consider here is whether VWFS needs to remove the missed payments from 
Miss Hs credit file. VWFS told Miss H the balloon payment would be reduced once the car 
was returned. It didnt say that any missed payments would be removed. But in all the 
circumstances and considering I think VWFS could have helped to resolve things sooner, I 
think its fair that all adverse information from April 2020 onwards is removed from Miss Hs 
credit file. 
Miss H has also raised a complaint about what happened after the car was handed back. 
But as those points dont relate to the complaint that was originally referred to us here, I think 
Miss H will need to take that up with VWFS in the first instance. If shes unhappy with its 
response, it may be something our service can investigate. 
VWFS responded to say it had nothing further to add and will await customer acceptance. 
Miss H responded to say the impact on her credit file and the stress and inconvenience 
remain current. She also highlighted shes unhappy with the charges applied by VWFS when 
she handed back the car. Ultimately Miss H doesnt think the compensation is sufficient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything materially new for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. To recap, I dont think all 
the delays were down to VWFS. And I think there are certain costs such as an MOT or the 
low loader that Miss H may have been liable for as the car did not have an MOT when she 
wanted to hand it back. But she hasnt incurred a cost. So I think, in the round, £100 
compensation is fair. And Ive also set out that any adverse information from April 2020 
onwards should be removed. VWFS must do this if Miss H were to accept this final decision. 
Finally, I appreciate Miss H is unhappy with the charges applied by VWFS when she handed 
back the car. And I can see shes told us about this during the course of the complaint. But 
as the investigator and I have explained, VWFS will need the chance to respond to this 
complaint in the first instance. Its not something that was included in her original complaint. 
Miss H hadnt handed the car back at the time we started considering the complaint Im 
dealing with here. If, however, Miss H is unhappy with VWFS response to her complaint 
about the charges, it may be something our service is able to consider for her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and, to the extent it hasnt done so already, 
direct Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance to:
Pay Miss H £100 compensation.
Remove adverse information from Miss Hs credit file from April 2020 onwards. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman