DRN-2512770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) acted unfairly 
by declining Mr Bs critical illness claim and amending their life and critical illness policies. 
And they complain it gave them poor customer service in relation to that. 
What happened
In September 2012 Mr and Mrs B bought a joint decreasing term life policy. And in October 
2012 Mr B bought a level term life (life) and critical illness cover (CIC) policy. Mr and Mrs B 
bought these policies on the advice of an independent financial adviser (IFA).
Sadly, in 2019 Mr B was diagnosed with relapsing and remitting multiple sclerosis (MS). 
Mr B made a claim under the CIC part of his policy. After obtaining medical evidence from 
Mr Bs GP, L&G declined the claim. In its letter of 3 June 2019, it said when Mr B applied for 
his policy, he didnt disclose episodes of dizziness hed had in 2009 and 2010, or that his GP 
advised him to reduce his alcohol consumption in 2008. L&G said if it had known this, it 
wouldnt have offered Mr B CIC and would have charged him more for life cover. So for 
Mr Bs policy, it cancelled the CIC part from the start of the policy and refunded the CIC 
premiums Mr B had paid. And for both Mr Bs own policy and Mr and Mrs Bs joint policy, it 
reduced the life cover sum assured in proportion to the premiums actually paid. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to L&G about this and also about its claims handling. In its final 
response letter, L&G said it had correctly declined the claim and had applied the correct 
remedy for Mr Bs careless misrepresentation. It said it hadnt unreasonably delayed the 
claims process, but accepted it hadnt kept Mr and Mrs B updated and caused them distress 
by not writing to them sooner about their claim being declined. L&G offered Mr and Mrs B 
£200 compensation for this. 
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service. Ive summarised what I see to be the 
key comments theyve made to us:
They gave L&G medical evidence when they made the claim, so L&G only asked Mr Bs 
GP for more information to try and avoid paying the claim. 
Mr B had a room spinning sensation in 2009 and 2010, not dizziness. His GP 
diagnosed this as an inner ear problem (benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, or 
BPPV) as Mr B tested negative for symptoms of more serious underlying conditions. 
And his BPPV resolved with the exercises and self-care his GP recommended. Mr Bs 
work and family responsibilities demonstrated he didnt get dizziness. And the 
application question about dizziness simply didnt spark a memory of this issue.
They couldnt have disclosed the alcohol advice at application, as they werent aware of 
it until they saw Mr Bs medical notes as part of this claim. And the advice wasnt 
targeted, just part of general health advice they were given as new patients looking to 
start a family. The liver function tests Mr B had about twelve weeks later - when he 
visited his GP with symptoms of paresthesia, or numbness  came back as normal, and 
there was nothing else about alcohol in his medical records. Mr Bs alcohol consumption 
of 40 units per week at that time was unusually high for him but not significantly over 
what was recommended then, and he wasnt referred on for any support or treatment. 
The three drinks a couple of times a week Mr B disclosed in his policy application was 
correct. And MS isnt related to alcohol. So it was unfair for L&G to reduce their life 
cover because of this. 
L&G was wrong to say it wouldnt offer Mr B CIC if hed disclosed his BPPV, because 
Mrs B told L&G she had blackouts and it offered her CIC under its standard terms. So 
L&Gs underwriting was inconsistent and it would have offered CIC to Mr B.  
Theyd been very careful to fully disclose everything at application and any 
non-disclosure was innocent and not intentional. 
The claims process took too long and L&G didnt keep them updated. And after calling 
them to decline the claim, L&G didnt send the detailed follow up letter for several days. 
And L&G delayed refunding their premiums, so they had to keep chasing it. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He ultimately thought Mr B had 
made a careless misrepresentation and that L&G had applied a fair remedy to the two 
policies. And that while L&Gs claim handling couldve been better, the £200 compensation it 
had already offered for that was fair.  
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for their complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So it 
has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying Im very sorry to hear of Mr Bs diagnosis and I realise this will have 
had a very great impact on him and his family. Im also very sorry to hear of the other 
difficulties Mr and Mrs B have told our service about. Its clear that this has been, and 
continues to be, an extremely upsetting and worrying time for them. So I can absolutely 
understand why this claim is so very important to them. But despite my sympathy for Mr and 
Mrs B, I cant fairly uphold their complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
claim decline and rating of life cover
The relevant law here is the Marine Insurance Act 1906. But as well as the law, I also need 
to take into account relevant guidelines and codes to make a decision that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. In light of that, I need to decide whether Mr B made a 
misrepresentation and if so, whether that misrepresentation was innocent, careless, or 
deliberate or reckless. And if so, whether L&G has applied the correct remedy for that 
misrepresentation - the remedies available are set out in the Misrepresentation and Treating 
Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, 
Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products April 2013 (2013 ABI code).
 
L&G says that when Mr B applied for his policy, he didnt tell it hed been advised to reduce 
his alcohol consumption. Ive set out the question in the application form together with the 
answer Mr B gave - Ive emphasised Mr Bs answers: 
Have you ever been medically advised to reduce your alcohol consumption or been referred 
for specialist help to deal with alcohol consumption such as to an alcohol addiction unit or to 
Alcoholics Anonymous?
Yes - advised to reduce alcohol consumptionNoYes - referred for specialist helpNo
NeitherYes
I think this question was clear, and Mr B answered No. But his medical records suggest that 
wasnt correct. On 11 November 2008 his GP noted Advised to reduce alcohol 
consumptionAlcohol consumption 40 units/week. Mr and Mrs B say they werent aware of 
this advice, but thats not enough for me to reasonably conclude Mr B wasnt given it, in light 
of a medical record saying he was. I accept the advice was part of a wider healthy living 
discussion, as it also mentions stopping smoking and ideal weight. And I accept Mr B wasnt 
referred on for alcohol support. Nonetheless, the first part of L&Gs application question asks 
Have you ever been medically advised to reduce your alcohol consumption And Mr Bs 
medical records show he was given such advice. 
L&G also says Mr B didnt tell it about episodes of dizziness hed had. The start of the 
Health - Last 5 years section of the application form says When answering all of the 
following questions, if you are unsure of the relevance of any medical condition you have 
had, please disclose it anyway. Where examples are shown they are not intended to be a 
complete list. And it goes on to ask Apart from anything you have already told us about, 
during the last 5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
chest pain, palpitations or irregular heartbeat? 
paralysis, numbness, persistent tingling or pins and needles, tremor or facial pain 
other than dental pain? 
memory loss, dizziness or balance problems?
I think L&G made clear Mr B should tell it about any conditions he had even if he wasnt sure 
they were relevant. And I think the question itself was clear. Mr B answered No to this 
question but Im satisfied that wasnt a correct answer. I know Mr B says he experienced a 
room spinning sensation, not dizziness, so this question didnt spark his memory. And his 
medical records do note room spinning which was diagnosed as BPPV, a type of vertigo. 
But I think its fair to say that room spinning and dizziness are simply different ways of 
describing a sensation that a person, or the environment around them, is moving or spinning 
when theyre not. So its reasonable to think this question should have prompted 
Mr B to tell L&G about the room spinning episodes hed had which his GP diagnosed as a 
type of vertigo. But he didnt.
For these reasons, Im satisfied it was fair of L&G to conclude Mr B made a 
misrepresentation. Mr and Mrs B say any non-disclosure was innocent and not intentional, 
and I dont doubt their sincerity. But the 2013 ABI code describes a careless 
misrepresentation as anything from an understandable oversight or inadvertent mistake, up 
to serious negligence. So Im satisfied its fair for L&G to categorise Mr Bs misrepresentation 
as careless.
Mr Bs misrepresentation made a difference, as L&G has provided underwriting criteria to 
show that had he not made a misrepresentation, L&G wouldnt have offered Mr B CIC and 
would have charged him more for life cover. I know Mr and Mrs B feel very strongly that L&G 
would have offered Mr B CIC, based on Mrs Bs experience. But Ive carefully considered 
both L&Gs underwriting criteria and what Ive been given of Mr Bs medical records in the 
five years prior to his policy application. Based on these, Im satisfied that if Mr B had 
correctly answered the dizziness question, L&G wouldnt have offered him CIC and so his 
policy wouldnt have had a CIC element for him to claim against. Therefore I think its fair for 
L&G to decline the CIC claim Mr B made for MS. 
I also think its fair for L&G to apply a proportionate remedy to the life part of Mr Bs own 
policy and to Mr and Mrs Bs joint life policy. Thats because the 2013 ABI code says that where there has been a careless misrepresentation and the insurer would have charged 
more if not for that misrepresentation, the insurer can apply a proportionate remedy. The ABI 
code says a proportionate remedy means the insurer will seek to put the customer back to 
the same position as an identical customer who took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation and who paid the appropriate premium for the same type of policy. 
L&G says that if Mr B had correctly answered the questions about dizziness and advice to 
reduce alcohol, it would have rated his life cover premiums - in other words, it would have 
charged him more. The 2013 ABI code says where the insurer would have rated the 
premium, it should work out how much cover the total premium paid by the customer would 
have bought and pay that amount as a proportionate settlement. So I think its fair and in line 
with the code for L&G to reduce Mr Bs life cover sum assured based on the information it 
should have had about his health at application. Ive seen L&G calculations and Im satisfied 
they are correct. 
claim handling
Mr and Mrs B have also complained about L&Gs handling of the claim. Theyre unhappy it 
contacted Mr Bs GP for information, with how long the claim process took, that it didnt keep 
them updated, and delayed sending them the decline letter and refunding the CIC premiums. 
Insurers are entitled to ask for medical information to properly assess a claim, and Ive seen 
that L&G asked the GP targeted questions about Mr Bs MS symptoms and diagnosis, and 
any related conditions. So I think it acted fairly here. 
Mr and Mrs B called L&G on 18 January 2019 to notify it about the claim and Mr Bs 
diagnosis, and they mentioned his previous history of numb fingertips and vertigo. L&G 
received Mr Bs claim pack on 4 February 2019 and over the next few months, it sought 
further medical information from Mr Bs GP and referred this to its underwriters for comment. 
On 29 May 2019, L&G called Mr and Mrs B to decline the claim and wrote to them on 3 June 
2019 to confirm this. So L&G took about four months to decide the claim. 
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs B wouldve liked the claim to be decided sooner, I dont think 
L&G took an unreasonably long time or caused any unreasonable delays. However, there 
were times it didnt keep Mr and Mrs B updated and there were five days between it calling 
them to decline the claim and sending the follow up letter. L&G itself accepts this. Mr and 
Mrs B very much wanted to know the outcome of the claim, and I think not being kept 
updated and having to wait even a few days longer than necessary to receive the outcome in 
writing would have caused them frustration and distress. But I think the £200 L&G has 
already offered them is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
Mr and Mrs B also say they had to chase L&G for the refund of CIC premiums. L&G wrote to 
them on 3 June 2019 to say it would arrange this refund and its policies team would be in 
touch about this. L&G then wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 21 June 2019 to say it would refund 
£992.72 in the next seven days - Mr and Mrs B say they received the refund on 
24 June 2019. So L&G took three weeks to refund the CIC premiums. Thats not an 
unreasonably long time given L&G needed to rework the policies, calculate the refund and 
process the payment.   
Therefore, Im not asking L&G to do anything further here, though I realise this will be a very 
great disappointment to Mr and Mrs B.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. But Im aware Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited has itself offered to pay Mr and Mrs B £200 
compensation. So Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay this to Mr and 
Mrs B, if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman