DRN-3844488
The complaint
Ms Cs unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, dealt with her 
application for an Avios Plus credit card.
What happened
In March 2022, Ms C applied online for a Barclaycard Avios Plus credit card. Subject to 
specific eligibility criteria, and in return for a monthly fee of £20, the card provided customers 
with airmiles based on spending and a welcome bonus of 25,000 Avios points if they spent 
£3,000 on the card within the first three months of the start of the account. 
Before accepting the application, Barclays required customers to validate their income either 
by uploading bank statements or allowing a credit reporting agency (CRA) to run checks for 
the previous 12 months. Ms C opted to use a CRA but, when she encountered difficulties, 
she was asked to provide bank statements instead. There were further problems. 
Following calls to Barclays and a branch visit, Ms C eventually received the credit card two 
weeks after first applying for it. She was given a credit limit of £200. 
In response to Ms Cs complaint to it about the application process, Barclays credited her 
account with £50 for the frustration and inconvenience caused and a further credit of £20 to 
cover one months card fee during which time she was unable to have her credit limit 
increased. By mid-April 2022, Ms C was still encountering problems in arranging for an 
increase to the credit limit that might have allowed her to earn the bonus points. By way of 
compensation and an apology for the handling of her complaint, Barclays offered to pay her 
a further £50 and credit her account with 5,000 Avios points (I gather it also added these 
points for other customers who encountered difficulties in applying at the time). But it 
maintained it couldnt re-start the three-month spend period in which Ms C could earn bonus 
points despite the problems shed faced. 
Barclays closed the account in early May 2022 as Ms Cs income had yet to be validated. 
Unhappy with Barclays actions, Ms C brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They 
believed the compensation offered was fair in response to the problems shed experienced, 
and that Barclays had given appropriate alternative options for Ms C to validate her income. 
As Ms C was unhappy with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and reach a decision. Among other things, Ms C felt the investigator had 
missed some key points. These included that shed made three attempts to provide the 
information Barclays had requested and it was only after then that she decided not to try and 
upload her statements again. Ms C wanted Barclays to put her in the position shed have 
been in had it not made any errors. In her view, that meant giving her the opportunity to open 
the account and earn the bonus points on offer shed have otherwise earned were she given 
sufficient time in which to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
As Ms C points out, its not in dispute that Barclays could have handled things better than it 
did. Its acknowledged that and apologised to Ms C, as well as offering her 5,000 Avios 
points and a total of £120 in compensation. I gather customers earn 1.5 Avios points per £1 
spent on the card, meaning Ms C would have needed to spend £3,333 on her card to earn 
the 5,000 points Barclays offered her. 
Its seldom easy to determine what level of compensations payable for non-financial loss 
because the issue is subjective by its very nature. But even if I accepted that Barclays was 
at fault for all the issues Ms C experienced in applying for the account and validating her 
income, Im satisfied that Barclays offer represents fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Ms C says Barclays was obliged to offer to refund one months account fee due to the 
application delays and that other customers that encountered problems were also offered 
5,000 points. While that might be the case, that doesnt make the offer to Ms C unfair. 
I realise that what Barclays has offered isnt necessarily what Ms C wants. Rather shed like 
it to re-open the account that was closed in May 2022 and have a reasonable opportunity to 
earn the Avios points bonus as advertised. But there are practical issues with doing that, 
even if I believed that was a fair way forward. Barclays confirms its unable to re-open closed 
credit card accounts on its systems. I recognise that some banks allow accounts to be 
reopened and that others dont. I accept that what Barclays says about that is correct in this 
case. 
Further, Barclays says Ms C could have re-applied for an account six months after her initial 
application. It advised against applying sooner than that to avoid multiple credit search 
footprints that might adversely impact Ms C. Given six months had passed by September 
2022, Im satisfied it was open for Ms C to re-apply after that time, in a fresh attempt to earn 
the bonus points she wanted. And Ive seen nothing in the Barclaycard Avios rules to 
suggest Ms C was prevented from claiming bonus points given theyve not been added to 
her account before. 
Ive thought very carefully about whether I should ask Barclays to do more than it has. For 
example, through it adding the 25,000 points (or some other number of points) to Ms Cs 
account that shed like the opportunity to earn. That said, Ive decided not to make a 
recommendation since I cant say on balance how many points Ms C might have earned 
even if the original application had been accepted sooner. 
Overall, while I accept Barclays could have handled matters better than it did, I consider that 
its responded fairly to the issues Ms Cs raised.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman