DRN-3945425
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited incorrectly renewed his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M went online and used Hastings as an intermediary to set up a policy between him and 
an insurance company for the year from late July 2021. 
In July 2022, Hastings automatically renewed the policy and charged a renewal fee of 
£20.00. Mr M complained to Hastings that it shouldnt have renewed the policy.
Hastings cancelled the renewal. By a final response dated late July 2022, Hastings turned 
down the complaint and declined to refund the £20.00.
Mr M brought his complaint to us in early September 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that  
Hastings had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that: 
He doesnt consider only being able to use an app or call Hastings as either easy or 
accessible.
Hastings didnt state he couldnt contact them by email.
He contacted Hastings by email informing them he did not want them to renew the 
policy.
Hastings didnt contact him to say they were unable to action this request via email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I keep in mind that its a legal requirement for a registered keeper of a vehicle on the road to 
have continuous insurance cover.
In July 2021, Hastings sent Mr M a cover summary that included the following:
Renewing your policy 
We automatically renew most policies. This means if one of our insurers offers you a 
premium, we'll send you a renewal invitation at least 21 days before your policy's due 
to end. Your new insurance cover will start on your renewal date, 26th July 2022. If 
you wish to opt out of the automatic renewal process you can do so at any time, by 
either changing your settings in MyAccount (up until we've sent your renewal 
invitation) or by phoning our customer services team. Once you've received your 
renewal invitation, you can also call us any time before your renewal date to discuss 
or amend your renewal quote.
So Im satisfied that Hastings gave Mr M clear information about automatic renewal and how 
he could stop it.
The cover summary also included the following:
Our fees 
We charge fees to cover the costs involved in setting up, servicing and cancelling a 
policy and it's important you understand them. The fees below are for our services 
and each fee is non-refundable. Like other providers, we charge a fee to change a 
policy. This is so those customers who don't make any changes don't bear the cost 
for those who do, and helps us to keep policy prices down.
Arranging your policy 
 Arranging new or renewing cover for each car on your policy £20.00
So Im satisfied that Hastings made clear that in the event that it renewed the policy it would 
charge a fee of £20.00.
In late June 2022, Hastings sent Mr M a renewal letter that included the following:
What happens next 
Your policy is currently set to automatically renew so, your new insurance cover will 
automatically start on your renewal date, 26th July 2022. You can opt out of the 
automatic renewal process at any time. Simply change your preferences in the app 
or MyAccount or give us a call.
If you're happy to renew, you don't need to do anything. On your renewal date, we'll 
upload your new insurance documents to the app and MyAccount and your renewal 
will be due for payment. 
We're here to help 
If you don't want to automatically renew your policy, or you'd like to discuss or 
change any details please contact us on 0333 321 9790.
Mr M received that renewal letter by email. 
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ms statement that he tried to ring Hastings to cancel the 
renewal but found that its office was closed. I have no reason to doubt his statement that he 
tried to follow the Hastings contact us link which didnt work on his phone. However, Mr M 
mustve known that these attempts at contact hadnt worked.
On 5 July 2022, Mr M opened the renewal email and sent a reply. He said he didnt want to 
renew with Hastings and had found less expensive cover through another provider.
An emailed response wasnt in line with what the renewal letter had said he should do if he 
didnt want to renew. Furthermore, the Hastings inbox wasnt monitored for replies. So I dont 
find that Hastings knew that Mr M didnt want to renew because he had alternative cover. 
Also I dont find that Hastings shouldve replied to his email by asking him to call.
Therefore I dont conclude that Hastings treated Mr M unfairly by renewing the policy, 
charging £20.00 and declining to refund it. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Hastings Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman