DRN-4408411
The complaint
Mr K has complained, through his representative, about the advice he received from Quilter
Financial Services Ltd to transfer his personal pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension
(SIPP). He considers the advice was negligent and that he suffered a financial loss as a
result of it.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 20 September 2023. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to 
uphold it were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of it below and it forms 
part of this final decision. 
Copy
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He issued his assessment of
the complaint to both parties on 10 July 2023. The background and circumstances to the
complaint were set out in that assessment and are known by both parties. However to
summarise, the advice to transfer (technically known as a switch) was given in early 2018.
The investigator said at the time Mr K was looking to retire in about seven years time, and
he wanted an income of around £12,000 a year in retirement.
The investigator said Mr K was unhappy with the service he was receiving from his existing
pension provider and with the high charges and low bonus rates (he was invested in with-
profits funds). He had no investment experience, and was identified as having a low attitude
to risk.
The investigator said Mr K was advised to transfer two pensions that were invested in with-
profits to a SIPP. It was in invested in a Conservative fund.
Mr K subsequently complained to Quilter about the advice hed been given, and when his
complaint wasnt upheld he referred it to us.
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He said that hed taken into
account relevant law and regulations, and what he considered to be good industry practice
at the time. He said this included the Regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS)
Rules which provided under COBS 2.1.1R that a firm must act honestly, fairly and
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The investigator referred to a report published in 2009 by the regulator at the time (the
Financial Services Authority) which provided a checklist for pension switching that he said
was still applicable. He said the checklist identified areas of concern which included:
They had been switched to a pension that was more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason.
The investigator said that hed considered if transferring to a SIPP was in Mr Ks best
interest. And based on what hed seen, he didnt think it was. He said Mr K had limited
investment experience and a low attitude to risk.
The investigator said Mr K had to pay an advice fee, SIPP fees and ongoing advice
fees. He said the suitability report indicated that the SIPP Mr K was being transferred too
was more expensive than his existing pensions. The investigator said Mr K was already
invested in a fund that was in line with his attitude to risk. He said the SIPP was at risk from
market conditions and could go up in value as well as down. Although the with-profits funds
werent paying annual bonuses they were paying a terminal bonus, and Quilter should have
considered this when it advised Mr K to transfer his pension.
.
Overall, the investigator said he didnt think transferring from one low-risk investment to
another low-risk investment that was more expensive was in Mr Ks best interest. So the
investigator recommended that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He went on to set out
how he thought Quilter should calculate and pay fair compensation to Mr K.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Ks representative complained to the firm it complained about two personal
pensions invested in with-profits funds with one pension provider (which I will call Provider
1), and another pension, also invested in with-profits, with another pension provider (I will
call Provider 2). The investigator focussed on the two pensions held with Provider 1.
However Ive also considered the advice to transfer the pension held with Provider 2.
The suitability report for the two pensions held with Provider 1 said that the charges for the
advice included a 2.1% initial charge, 1% ongoing charge, a fund charge and platform
charge. The letter said that one of the existing pensions had charges of 1.7% a year, and the
other had charges of 1% a year.
I note the key facts SIPP Illustration document said the charges were:
A Product charge - 0.35% (after the adviser discount was applied)
Advice charges  An initial charge adviser charge of 2.7% (which I understand was 
ultimately reduced to 2.1%), and a 1% ongoing adviser charge
Investment charges  1.09% other charges.
Although the charges on one of Mr Ks existing plans was 1.5% this pension only
represented a small proportion of the total transferred - £2,600 of around £40,000
transferred. So I think the charges on the other plans were key.
The charges on the other two plans  with Provider 1 and 2  were 1% a year. The suitability
report said the reduction in yield on the proposed new plan was 2.7% a year. Ultimately, the
overall aim was to increase the level of Mr Ks benefits at retirement. He was being
transferred to a conservative fund presenting lower risks. So I think the 1.7% charges
differential was significant in deciding whether the new pension would be likely to outperform 
the existing plans to more than offset these higher charges. It was recorded that
Mr K already had concerns about the high charges on his exiting pensions. Yet he appears
to have been switched to a pension with significantly higher charges overall.The suitability letter for Provider 2 [this should have said Provider 1] set out a table showing 
the annual bonuses added for the higher valued pension were 2% in 2014, 3% in 2015 and 
2.5% in 2016. The bonuses for the lower value pension with Provider 1 were lower, but this 
only made up a small proportion of the transfer value. The suitability letter for Provider 2 set 
out a table of annual bonuses added for that plan. It showed annual bonuses of 4% were 
added in 2015, 3.75% in 2016 and 3.25% in 2017. And these didnt take into account any 
terminal bonus that could be added at maturity. So taking charges into account, the new 
fund, invested conservatively, would have needed to work hard to outperform Mr Ks existing 
with-profits funds.
Although Mr K may have been disappointed with the annual bonuses he was also eligible for
terminal bonuses. So I think the adviser ought to have explained that the annual bonuses
werent necessarily an appropriate measure of performance; overall performance would
ultimately be reflected in both annual and terminal bonuses.
The charges that Mr K was paying in his existing pensions were lower overall than after he
had switched. Mr Ks with-profits pensions with Provider 1 and 2 provided some guarantees
in terms of once the annual bonuses were added that wouldnt be taken away. The with-
profits fund provided a smoothing effect, and at his selected retirement date Mr K would
have been entitled to his fair share of the profits made by the fund over the entirety of his
time in it. The with-profits fund was invested in a spread of asset classes. And Mr K would
receive the full value if he took the benefits at his selected retirement date.
Taking all the above into account, Im not persuaded that the additional costs of transferring
were justified or that its benefits outweighed the extra costs incurred. In my opinion I dont
think the chances of Mr K increasing his pension at retirement were improved by
transferring, and I dont think the transfers were in Mr Ks best interests.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr K as far as its possible back into the
position that he would likely have been in had Quilter not given unsuitable advice. I think
Mr K would have remained in the With-Profits fund for all three pensions.
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should determine whether Mr K has suffered a loss by
obtaining the notional transfer value of the pensions from the previous pension providers as
at the date of a final decision. The value should be based on the assumption Mr K would
have remained in the with-profits funds with Provider 1 and Provider 2. It should then
compare this notional value with the actual value of the SIPP at the same date.
If the total notional value is higher than the actual value, Mr K has suffered a loss and
compensation is payable.
If the actual value is higher than the total notional value then Mr K hasnt suffered a financial
loss, and compensation isnt payable.
Any compensation payable should if possible be paid into Mr Ks pension plan. The
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to
allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.If Mr K has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free
and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss
adequately reflects this.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint. I intend to order Quilter Financial
Services Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Mr K as I have outlined above under
Putting things right.
I asked Mr K and Quilter Financial Services Ltd to let me have any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr K, through his representative, said he accepted the provisional decision. 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd didnt provide any further evidence or arguments for 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint. I order Quilter Financial Services Ltd to 
calculate and pay compensation to Mr K as I have outlined above in my provisional decision 
under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023
. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman