DRN-1448586
The complaint
Mrs C feels that Brayleys Cars Limited misrepresented the finance agreement for a car to 
her. She says she wasnt told that there would be a balloon payment at the end of her 
agreement and that there was a mileage cap also.
What happened
Mrs C took out a Personal Contract Purchase Agreement (a type of Hire Purchase 
Agreement) through Brayleys Cars Limited who were acting as a credit intermediary for a 
Lender. When the agreement came to the end of its term Mrs C was asked to make the 
balloon payment or return the car. She couldnt afford the balloon payment so opted to return 
the car and was then told of a mileage charge. Mrs C is adamant that she was never told 
about the balloon payment or that there was a mileage cap when she entered into the 
agreement. She says shed had previous agreements which didnt have such arrangements.
The car has been returned but there is an outstanding charge for the excess mileage. Mrs C 
feels she shouldnt have to pay it as she believes she never agreed to it when discussing it 
with Brayleys when she entered into the agreement.
Brayleys has provided written comments from a person at the sale who remembers those 
events, along with the agreement itself and supporting documentation from the time. It has 
also provided evidence of the other options which were discussed at the time. Brayleys feels 
everything was made clear and that it has nothing further to do. So when Mrs C complained 
to it, it didnt agree. So Mrs C brought her complaint here.
Our investigator felt that Brayleys had treated Mrs C fairly when setting up the agreement. 
Mrs C doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information or evidence I have is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of 
it is here) I base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider 
is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
The Financial Conduct Authority in the CONC section of its rules says that, Brayleys (as the 
credit intermediary / broker) must explain the key features of a regulated credit agreement to 
enable the customer, Mrs C in this case, to make an informed choice. Key features would 
include issues such as mileage charges and balloon payments. Mrs C says this wasnt 
explained and Brayleys says it was.
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about the discussions and also what she said 
happened in her correspondence with Brayleys and with this service. Mrs C points to 
previous agreements and what she says are inconsistencies in what she paid for. But I note 
she doesnt give particularly detailed recollections of the actual discussions around what was 
said or the precise nature of what happened when the paperwork was gone through on the 
day.
Conversely Brayleys has given a detailed account of what happened during the sale. It notes 
that the person responding on behalf of the business was present at the sale and produced 
the documentation used in the sale. It has gone on to say that it explained fully the details, 
benefits and potential pitfalls of the Lenders options regarding hire purchase and personal 
contract purchase. It has said the documents show the progress of discussions:
Firstly a cash deal was presented, including requested products. Secondly a PCP deal with 
the same products, based on 6,000 miles per annum. Thirdly, after normal negotiations, we 
have increased the offer for Mrs Cs part exchange by £1,000. Finally, Mrs C has decided 
she does not want (an additional product) after all so this has been removed. This final offer 
matches exactly the finance documents signed by Mrs C.
I have reviewed the documentation Brayleys has provided and it is noteworthy that the 
mileage cap is consistently shown on the documentation used and agreed and also on the 
finance deals that werent agreed. Brayleys has gone on to say that the default position of its 
agreements is a higher mileage so it is satisfied that there was discussion about this at the 
time otherwise it wouldnt have been changed.
Mrs C has described telling Brayleys at the time that shed be doing a lot of driving to her 
house in another county. Ive considered this carefully. And I cannot know what was said in 
such face to face discussions. But considering all of the available evidence and 
circumstances as a whole Im not persuaded on balance Brayleys has done anything wrong 
here.
Ive also considered the pre-contract credit information document which describes the 
mileage cap and what happens if that is exceeded. Mrs C has signed this document. 
Similarly the finance agreement itself has the mileage cap explained and what the charges 
for excess mileage are. Ive considered both of these documents carefully and do think the 
mileage issue could have been more prominent. Having said that it is explained in both 
documents. Ive also considered the illustrations and although I can see these consistently 
show the 6000 miles cap on them also. These illustrations are, in essence, the working 
documents that are created during the sales process. Brayleys are required to provide Mrs C 
with adequate information to make an informed choice. I think taking everything into account 
on balance Brayleys did make clear to Mrs C that there was a mileage cap at 6000 miles. 
Ive also considered what Mrs C has said about being unaware of the balloon payment part 
of the agreement. Broadly speaking PCP agreements such as this will be cheaper on a 
monthly basis than a standard Hire Purchase agreement and thus can be attractive to 
consumers for this reason. In this case from the illustrations that have been produced I can 
see the monthly repayment is significantly less expensive than the normal hire purchase 
monthly cost. I can see on the finance agreement itself on the front page there is a section 
titled Repayment Schedule for the Goods. This describes the first months payment due 
(£182.08), the amount for the following thirty-five monthly instalments (also £182.08) and 
then the final payment (£17,212.56). I think this is relatively prominent compared to some 
of the other information provided in the agreement. Mrs C signs this document. In the pre-
contract credit information document there is a section on the front page called the key 
features of the credit product and this also sets out the payments due as Ive described 
including the amount of the final payment. This document is also signed by Mrs C.
Mrs C points to some additional purchases she made when she took out the agreement and 
notes that they were for longer than the term of the agreement. She says this is inconsistent for an agreement of this length and illustrates failings with the sale. Ive considered this but 
am not persuaded by it. I say so because this type of agreement enables the purchaser, Mrs 
C, to own the car at the end of the term. It seems that she may have bought those products 
then with the aim of purchasing the car at the end of the term. And Brayleys has pointed to 
there being savings in doing so and the opportunity for rebates. So all in all Im not 
persuaded these apparent inconsistencies are indicative one way or the other.
Having considered all of the documentation from the sale available along with the arguments 
put forward by both Mrs C and Brayleys Im satisfied on balance that Brayleys has provided 
at the time of the sale the key features of the arrangement to Mrs C in order for her to make 
an informed choice with regard to the mileage and the balloon payment. Consequently I 
think Brayleys has treated her fairly and thus this complaint isnt successful.
I should add for completeness that the excess mileage charge is payable to the Lender who 
isnt Brayleys here. If Mrs C feels the amount charged is incorrect she can complain to the 
lender but in this decision I have decided that on balance Mrs C was informed of such a 
charge being applicable when she entered into this agreement.
I can also see that Brayleys spoke to Mrs C towards the end of the deal with options 
regarding how she could keep the car, but Mrs C decided to not take any of these options. 
So I dont think Brayleys treated her unfairly here either.
Ive considered carefully what Mrs C has said throughout this complaint, but I do not agree 
with her position. I appreciate this will be disappointing to her. However I do not find she was 
treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Brayleys Cars Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman