DRN-2886940
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the way that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBGI) handled 
a claim under her home insurance policy for water damage. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs R made a claim to LBGI after she discovered a large leak from the water 
tank in her airing cupboard. That caused damage to several rooms in her property.
LBGI accepted the claim. It arranged for various contents to be taken into storage while the 
property was dried. It also instructed a contractor to carry out repairs.
Mrs R complained to LBGI about many aspects of the work done by its contractors. In 
particular she wasnt happy that:
some items had been damaged in storage including a valuable doll;
the contractor had broken the front door;
there was no drinkable cold water in the en-suite bathroom;
the shower wasnt working in the main bathroom which she thought was linked to the 
repairs in the en-suite bathroom; and
LBGIs plumber had made a bedroom carpet dirty.
LBGI said its supplier would repair or replace the items which it had damaged. It agreed to 
pay £750 plus VAT for a new front door based on what it would have cost it for a 
replacement. It arranged for a different supplier to inspect the bathrooms. It agreed that the 
claim should have been handled better and paid Mrs R £300 compensation for that.
Mrs R brought her complaint to this service. 
In the meantime the doll was sent away to a specialist repairer where it was supposed to be 
invisibly repaired. When it was returned about a year later, Mrs R was very disappointed 
with the standard of the repair. LBGI agreed it was not a seamless repair. She also said 
there was silicon on the dolls hair.
In December 2020 LBGI made the following offer to Mrs R. It said it would:
arrange for the silicon to be removed from the dolls hair;
obtain a like for like quote to replace the front door as whilst Mrs R had provided an 
estimate, it thought it was excessive;
pay up to £400 plus VAT in respect of the hot water draw off pipe.
As the parties didnt agree with our investigators view, the matter has been referred to me. I 
issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Having seen photos of the doll after it had been repaired I can understand Mrs Rs 
disappointment on its return. It seems to have been repaired using a lot of silicon which 
wasnt applied smoothly and some of it was still in the dolls hair. In order to treat Mrs R fairly 
LBGI should pay for an equivalent doll. If it considers that the original doll has any residual 
value and Mrs R wishes to keep it, it should deduct that residual value from any cash 
settlement.
Mrs R sent LBGI a quote for £1,904.50 to replace the front door. I dont think LBGIs offer of 
£750 plus VAT was fair. It would be entitled under the policy to settle on the basis of what it 
would have paid for a replacement door. But in this case LBGIs contractor had damaged the 
door. So the policy terms dont apply. It should pay Mrs R what it would cost her for a like for 
like replacement.
Mrs R has provided evidence that in March 2021 she replaced the front door at a total cost 
of £1,850. I think LBGI had had long enough to sort this out and so it should now reimburse 
Mrs R for this cost less any amount previously paid in respect of this plus interest from the 
date of payment.
I accept that Mrs R chose the mixer tap that LBGIs contractor fitted in the en-suite 
bathroom and that its been installed in accordance with the manufacturers instructions. But 
I think LBGIs contractor should have made her aware of the effect on the hot and cold 
water pressures so that she could have made an informed decision before work started. To 
put this right, LBGI should replace it with the sort of taps Mrs R had previously.
Having read reports from Mrs Rs plumber and LBGIs second contractor I can see that 
there are a large number of issues with the plumbing in her bathrooms. It seems to be 
agreed that theres inadequate water pressure. Mrs Rs plumber has quoted for a new boiler 
and hot water cylinder to correct this. I havent seen any expert evidence linking this issue to 
the works LBGI carried out at the property. So I think its likely that LBGIs contractor was 
correct in saying that this was a pre-existing issue with the property. 
However LBGIs second contractor did say that the hot water draw off pipe had been 
installed in such a way that it would collect air, causing possible airlocks. This pipe was 
worked on by the original contractor. So I think its fair that it should be replaced at LBGIs 
expense in the hope that this improves things. I havent seen any evidence as to how much 
this would cost. So I cant say whether LBGIs offer in this respect is reasonable.
I know Mrs R is dubious that her carpet can be cleaned to her satisfaction for £50. But she 
has a quote for that amount. If it turns out that the carpet cant be adequately cleaned, she 
should refer back to LBGI.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
Mrs R is a self-employed shop keeper and has had to take time off to sort out various 
aspects of the claim due to the way its been handled by LBGI. LBGI has paid to repair or 
replace various items damaged by its contractor which arent referred to in this decision. But 
I can understand that it would have been stressful for Mrs R that her home and possessions 
werent treated with the care she was entitled to expect. In particular the condition of the doll 
on its return would have been very upsetting. All in all, although this is less than Mrs R will 
have been hoping for, Im minded to award her a further £400 compensation. 
LBGI accepted my provisional decision. In summary Mrs R made the following points:A replacement doll would cost around £2,222. LBGI was welcome to collect the old doll 
which she thought was worthless now. She asked me to award a fixed sum of money in 
respect of the doll to avoid further disputes.
LBGI should reimburse her for VAT on the amount payable in respect of the new front 
door.
With regard to the works in the en-suite bathroom, she asked me to take into account the 
associated works;
Shed like to be reimbursed for the new shower shed had to install because of the air 
pressure problems.
She suggested LBGI should arrange the carpet cleaning as she didnt think £50 would 
cover the work.
She accepted the £400 compensation although she didnt really think it was enough.
She didnt want LBGIs contractors to carry out any further works in her home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen the evidence Mrs R has in support of her claim that a replacement doll would 
cost over £2,000, so I cant comment on it. In any event she needs to pass it to LBGI first for 
it to consider the matter further. At this stage it still needs to be established what the value of 
an equivalent doll would be.
The invoice Mrs R supplied for the new front door was £1,850 including VAT. LBGI should 
pay Mrs R the difference between this and what its already paid in respect of the front door.
I appreciate that there might be associated works needed to the en-suite bathroom as a 
result of replacing the taps and particularly the hot water draw off pipe and its right that LBGI 
should also be responsible for these costs. Both parties appear to accept that it would be 
preferable for Mrs R to arrange the works herself. I think the best way forward is for Mrs R to 
provide LBGI with an estimate of the work in advance.
I know Mrs R feels strongly that there was nothing wrong with the shower in the main 
bathroom before LBGI started work which affected the water pressure. LBGI on the other 
hand says that it didnt change the water feed to the main bathroom, so it isnt responsible 
for the shower having to be replaced. Unfortunately for Mrs R without any expert evidence 
linking LBGIs works to the need to replace the shower, I dont think it would be fair to make 
LBGI responsible for this.
Although it appears that £50 is enough to clean the carpet, Mrs R is concerned that it wont 
cover the cost of moving the bedroom furniture before and after the cleaning. I think a 
professional carpet cleaner will know how to work around bulky furniture like beds and 
wardrobes and it shouldnt be necessary to pay extra for this. This amount is based on a 
quote obtained by Mrs R, so it should be enough to have the work done properly. 
As both parties have accepted my provisional award of £400 compensation, I see no reason 
to change it.
I can understand why Mrs R wouldnt want LBGIs contractors in her home again. Her 
complaint has been decided in such a way that this shouldnt be necessary; I havent made 
any award that requires LBGI and/or its contractors to return to her home.
  
Putting things rightTo put things right I think LBGI should pay Mrs R the value of an equivalent doll to the one 
its contractor damaged, reimburse her for the cost of her new front door less any amount 
previously paid in respect of this plus simple interest at the rate of 8 per cent, pay to replace 
the taps in the en-suite bathroom with ones like Mrs R had originally including any 
associated works, pay to replace the hot water draw off pipe in such a way as to minimise 
airlocks, pay £50 to clean the bedroom carpet and a further £400 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it caused her.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
pay Mrs R the value of an equivalent doll to the one its contractor damaged; 
reimburse Mrs R for the cost of her new front door less any amount previously paid in 
respect of this plus simple interest* at the rate of 8 per cent from the date of Mrs R paid 
for the door to the date of settlement;
pay to replace the taps in the en-suite bathroom with ones like Mrs R had originally with 
a cold feed from the mains supply, including any associated works;
pay to replace the hot water draw off pipe in such a way as to minimise airlocks; 
pay Mrs R £50 to clean her bedroom carpet; and 
pay a further £400 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused her. 
*If Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mrs R, it should tell her how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman