DRN-3637492
The complaint
C complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has unfairly declined its 
accidental damage claim and provided it with a poor service.
C is a limited company and is being represented by a third party in this case. Any reference 
to C or Fairmead in this decision includes respective representatives or agents unless 
specified otherwise.
What happened
C made claims under its Fairmead Property Owners Insurance policy for loss of rent and 
accidental damage to its insured property (Property A). It made a complaint to this service 
about Fairmeads handling of both claims.
The loss of rent claim and the delays in the handling of the accidental damage claim, up to 
February 2021, have been considered and responded to under a separate case to this 
decision. 
This decision therefore only considers Fairmeads handling of the accidental damage claim 
and only between the dates of March 2021 and the issuing of its final response letter to this 
complaint in January 2022.
The background and circumstances of the complaint being considered in this decision are 
known in detail to the parties involved, so Ill summarise what I think are the key points.
C has a Property Owners Insurance policy with Fairmead which covers a 
commercial property it rents out. And it made a claim for damage under this policy.
C said a bar and some of the surrounding bar area at Property A, had been damaged 
as a result of crate handling by previous tenants during restocking activities. 
It said Fairmead delayed sending someone to inspect the damage and failed to 
acknowledge and respond to correspondence and chasers, resulting in C having to 
proceed with repair works to rectify the damage before Fairmead could inspect it or 
make a decision on the claim.
When Fairmead did inspect the damage, it declined the claim on the basis it wasnt 
accidental or malicious and didnt appear to fall under any insured peril in the policy. 
It said it was expected dilapidation of running the type of business Property A was 
used for, and that this type of damage (wear and tear) is excluded under the policy. 
C complained about Fairmeads handling of the claim and its decision. Fairmead 
accepted the service it provided C had fallen below the level it expected and offered 
£300 for any inconvenience its delays and poor communication caused. But it stood 
by its reasons and decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator found there wasnt sufficient supporting evidence to show how the 
damage being claimed for happened. So he wasnt satisfied the claim fell under an 
insured peril and was more persuaded it was the result of wear and tear which he 
agreed wasnt covered under the policy. He said Fairmead had fairly declined the 
claim and that the offer of £300 was a reasonable amount of compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to C. 
C disagreed. It said the photos it provided show the damage was accidental and that 
this wouldve been apparent had Fairmead sent its loss assessor to inspect it sooner 
than it did. It also said it hadnt seen or agreed to all the policy documents so it didnt 
think Fairmead could fairly rely on the terms within them to decline the claim. And it 
said Fairmead had ignored much of the evidence it had provided about the damage 
and unfairly relied on its loss assessors findings to decline the claim.
As a resolution wasnt reached, the case has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accidental damage claim
Generally speaking, property insurance is designed to cover the cost of repairing or 
rebuilding the insured property if its damaged or destroyed due to a type of 
unforeseen event (often known as an insured event or insured peril).
One of the insured perils Property A is covered for under Cs Fairmead policy is 
Damage. And this is defined in the policy as Accidental loss, destruction or damage 
to the Property Insured. 
So in order for C to make a claim under this peril, it needs to be able to demonstrate 
that the damage its claiming for, meets the above definition. So Ive looked at the 
evidence it has provided to show this.
C has given testimony that the damage was caused by the tenants of Property A 
during crate handling activities and has provided pictures of the bar and surrounding 
area which it says shows the damage.
Its my understanding that C discovered the damage after the tenants vacated the 
premises. So arguably, the conclusion its reached about how the damage was 
caused is more of an assumption of what it thinks most likely happened, rather than a 
definitive conclusion.
And while the photos show a bar and bar area that look to be in need of repair, they 
dont show how or why the damage most likely occurred and when this happened. 
And I fail to see how Fairmeads loss assessor visiting Property A any earlier 
wouldve shown something different.
So on balance of the information Ive seen, I dont think C has reasonably 
demonstrated that the damage theyre claiming for meets the above definition and I 
cant see that its covered anywhere else in the policy. 
It follows I think Fairmead has fairly declined the claim based on the information 
available to it and I wont be directing it do anything further in relation to this.
However, should C be able to obtain and provide Fairmead with expert evidence that 
shows the damage its claiming for was the result of an insured peril under the policy, 
Id expect Fairmead to consider this.
Delays and poor service
From the information Ive seen in this case, its evident that Fairmead failed to 
communicate with C in a timely manner and took longer than expected or necessary 
to provide C with an outcome to the accidental damage claim.
This led to C starting repair works on Property A before knowing the outcome of the 
claim as it needed to get its business back up and running which is understandable. 
And it had to spend time chasing Fairmead for updates and responses.
Its already been explained to C, that as its not an individual, I cant make any awards for distress, but I can consider the inconvenience Fairmeads poor service 
had on it between the period of March 2021 and January 2022.
As set out above, I think Fairmead fairly declined the claim for accidental damage, so 
I cant see theres been a financial inconvenience to C in terms of paying for the 
repair costs out of its own pocket, as it wouldve needed to do this anyway.
But it was inconvenienced in having to chase Fairmead for updates on the claim and 
I think the £300 Fairmead has offered as compensation for this is fair.
Ive considered all of Cs points including what its said about information its provided being 
ignored and not seeing the policy terms Fairmead relied on to decline the claim.
But Im satisfied Fairmead has fairly considered the evidence available to it in this case for 
the reasons already explained. And as the investigator previously set out to C, the policy 
was purchased through a broker, so any complaint C may have regarding the provision of 
policy documents would need to be raised with that party. 
Im satisfied that in the circumstances of this case, C is entitled to rely on the policy terms its 
quoted. And has fairly declined the claim as a result. So these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
Fairmead has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances for the reasons explained above. So my final decision is that 
Fairmead Insurance Limited should pay C £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman