DRN-3895494
The complaint
Mr P complains that Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) blocked his accounts, meaning he 
couldnt make payments or deposits.
What happened
Mr P told our service that Cynergy blocked his accounts on 23 July 2021. He said he made 
numerous phone calls to Cynergy and filed a formal complaint on 29 July 2021. He said 
Cynergy gave him 2 months notice of its intention to close his accounts, and that it retained 
his account balance of £34,788.11, despite the fact that he had emailed Cynergy with his 
new bank details and instructions to send the account balance to him.
Cynergy issued its final response to Mr Ps complaint on 18 August 2021. It said it 
understood its actions had inconvenienced Mr P, but said it had acted in line with its policy 
and the terms and conditions of the accounts, so it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr P remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. She said Cynergy had 
acted in line with its internal processes and the terms of Ps accounts, so she didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mr P didnt accept what our investigator said, so he asked for an Ombudsman 
to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr P, I would need to be satisfied that Cynergy 
acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im 
satisfied Cynergy acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Ps 
accounts. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that 
governed the relationship between Cynergy and Mr P.
I appreciate Mr P is frustrated that Cynergy didnt explain its reasons in full, that he thinks he 
was lied to, and that he feels strongly about his complaint. But, under the terms and 
conditions of the accounts, Cynergy doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant 
say it did anything wrong by not giving Mr P this information when he complained. And, 
having investigated Cynergys rationale myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the 
accounts and complete the investigation in the manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest it treated Mr P unfairly.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps accounts  with which both Cynergy and Mr P had to 
comply  say that Cynergy could close the accounts by giving 2 months notice.
While I cant disclose the reasons for Cynergys decision to Mr P, I can say that Ive 
considered the evidence Ive been provided, and Im satisfied Cynergy acted in accordance 
with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Ps accounts. 
I recognise that Mr Ps accounts remained blocked during the notice period, but for the 
reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied Cynergy was entitled to block the accounts and 
keep them blocked during the notice period.
Account balance
Mr P also complained that Cynergy didnt release his account balance when he asked it to 
do so. He sent our service copies of emails dated 30 July 2021 and 13 August 2021 that he 
had sent to Cynergy, including his bank details and requesting release of his account 
balance. 
Cynergy told our service it required Mr Ps bank details to be submitted either in writing, or 
via secure message through Mr Ps online banking. It says it confirmed the position to Mr P 
in its notice to close his accounts, and in follow-up emails. It says it didnt release Mr Ps 
because he hadnt complied with its requirements.
When our service confirmed Cynergys requirements to Mr P, he duly issued his instructions 
by letter and Cynergy released his account balance of £34,768.11 on 24 July 2023, followed 
by an interest payment of £3.63, two days later.
Given Mr P complied with Cynergys requirements when our investigator contacted him, I 
asked Cynergy to confirm if it ever replied to Mr Ps emails. I said it seemed Mr P had 
misunderstood what he needed to do and that Cynergy needed to demonstrate it had taken 
sufficient steps to explain its requirements to Mr P, failing which I would award 
compensation.
With its reply, Cynergy sent me an email chain that ran from 30 July 2021 to 16 August 
2021. It started with Mr P providing his bank details and asking for his balance to be 
returned. Cynergy replied, attaching a copy of its letter that set out its requirements to 
release the funds: i.e it needed Mr Ps account details in writing or via online banking.
Mr P replied 2 weeks later, asking where his money was, and repeating his bank details. 
Cynergy asked if Mr P had sent his bank details in accordance with the instructions set out in 
its notice to close letter.
In response, Mr P said he had replied to a letter from a Cynergy employee (Mr J), including 
his account details as requested. Cynergy replied saying it can only accept Mr Ps 
instructions by secure message or in writing, and it included a screenshot of the letter from 
Mr J that confirmed the same.
Mr P responded again, repeating that he had given his bank details as asked by Mr J and 
asked Cynergy to explain the position clearly if he had not understood it. Cynergy explained 
that Mr Js letter set out the 2 options for Mr P to provide his bank details (via online banking 
or in writing) and said it would accept a scanned version of Mr Ps written instructions.Given Mr P did comply with Cynergys requirements when our service wrote to him, it seems 
to me that he would have done so sooner, had he understood the position correctly. After all, 
there was a significant sum of money at stake and the requirements to obtain that money 
were not onerous. So, I accept that Mr P may not have understood what he had to do.
However, I can only tell Cynergy to compensate Mr P for losses he suffered if those losses 
were caused by an error on its part. And I cant tell Cynergy what its processes should be, I 
can only check to see if it followed its process correctly and treated Mr P fairly. And Im 
satisfied from the email correspondence Ive set out above that Cynergy did treat Mr P fairly: 
it followed its procedure correctly and took sufficient steps to explain its requirements, so I 
dont hold it responsible for the delay. 
Mr P did seem to misunderstand Cynergys first letter from Mr J. But Cynergy clarified the 
correct position to Mr P four times after its notice to close letter, and Im satisfied it explained 
the position clearly on each occasion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman