DRN-2366172
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy MBNA Limited (MBNA) wont refund a payment made using his credit card 
that Mr S says he didnt authorise.
 
What happened
Mr S took out a credit card with MBNA in December 2018 with a credit limit of £5,500.
On 13 September 2019 Mr S made a payment of £4,709.18 to clear his outstanding balance 
on the account.
On 14 September 2019 at 18:45pm Mr Ss card details were used to make a payment of 
£5,318.05 to a specialist surgeon based in Turkey. Mr S says he didnt consent to or 
authorise the payment.
MBNA sent Mr S a text message on 14 September 2019, several hours after the disputed 
transaction, to make him aware that he was close to his credit limit. MBNA also sent Mr S an 
email on 16 September 2019 and a further text on 17 September 2019 informing him of the 
same.
Mr S says he noticed the transaction on 4 October 2019 when he checked online and then 
contacted MBNA to say he hadnt carried out the transaction.
Mr S hadnt lost his card and it had remained in his possession. And Mr S says no one else 
knows or had access to his card details. Mr S also said he didnt recognise where the 
payment had been made to and had never been to Turkey. As Mr S still had his credit card 
in his possession, he didnt understand how the transaction had been made.
Mr S wanted MBNA to refund the transaction that he hadnt authorised. Mr S was also 
unhappy that greater checks werent completed by MBNA when the transaction happened  
as it used all of his credit available. Mr S considered, given it was a large transaction, MBNA 
should have confirmed whether it was him making it. Mr S thought had MBNA sought to 
verify the transaction, it could have prevented the fraudulent transaction.
MBNA say the disputed transaction was completed with Mr Ss correct card details being 
used, and alongside Mr S being in possession of the card said it considered Mr S was liable 
for the transaction. MBNA also took the decision, upon reviewing Mr S credit card account 
and history, to close Mr Ss accounts.
Unhappy Mr S referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. Broadly summarised they considered it was more likely than 
not, that Mr S had authorised the transaction and didnt consider it was fair for MBNA to 
refund the transaction amount.
As Mr S disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). 
PSR 2017 says a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction. And if a payment service user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider 
(in this case MBNA) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated.  
If it is deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. PSR 
2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer.
Mr S says he didnt consent to, or authorise, the disputed transaction and considers MBNA 
should refund the amount.
MBNA says it considers Mr S authorised the transaction and is therefore liable for the 
amount.
 
So, first I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests that the transaction was 
authenticated and then second, I need to consider whether I think it is likely that the 
transaction was carried out with or without Mr Ss consent.
The disputed transaction  was it authenticated?
 
MBNA has provided evidence to show that Mr Ss correct card details were used to make 
the payment on 14 September 2019. So Im satisfied that the transaction in question was 
authenticated. 
This means I now need to determine whether I think its more likely than not that Mr S or 
someone with his knowledge and consent carried out the disputed transaction, or whether I 
think it was carried out without his knowledge and consent.
In order to do this, Ive looked at whether an unknown or known party to Mr S could have 
carried out the disputed transaction without Mr Ss consent.
Could an unknown party have made the transaction without Mr Ss consent?
In short, Im not persuaded the disputed transaction was carried out by an unknown third 
party or fraudster. Ill explain why.
Mr Ss card remained in his possession and Mr S has said that he hadnt shared his card 
details with anyone. Based on this, I cant see a point where Mr Ss card details could have 
been compromised in which to allow an unknown party to make the transaction. I am also mindful that prior to the disputed transaction, Mr S had cleared his balance the 
previous day. The transaction on 14 September 2019 was for £5,318.05 which was nearly all 
of Mr Ss available credit. It is highly unlikely that an unknown party, had they obtained the 
card details, would have known what the limit was or what Mr Ss balance was and made a 
one-off transaction that used all of Mr Ss available limit. Also, an unknown fraudster or third 
party attempting a one-off payment that exceeded the limit could have resulted in the card 
being blocked and an unknown fraudster not being able to obtain anything from the card.
A more likely scenario, had an unknown fraudster obtained Mr Ss card details and not 
known Mr Ss available limit, would be to carry out several transactions until the limit had 
been reached or a payment declined because the limit had been reached.
Overall, I havent seen enough to suggest an unknown party carried out the disputed 
transaction.
Could a known party have carried out the disputed transaction without Mr Ss consent?
For much the same reasons Ive set out above, I dont find it likely that a known party 
obtained Mr Ss card details and made the disputed transaction without his consent. Again I 
find it unlikely that a known party would have been aware that Mr S had cleared his balance 
the previous day. And was aware of what Mr Ss available limit was and managed to obtain 
the card details and then make the payment the next day.
Based on the evidence I have seen, I think it is more likely than not that the disputed 
transaction was carried out by Mr S or was carried out by someone with his knowledge and 
consent. Ill explain why.
MBNA in investigating the disputed transactions also had access to Mr Ss other accounts 
as, they are held under the same banking group.
Around the same period as the disputed transaction, Mr Ss debit card held with another 
bank was used to purchase a Turkish E-Visa. There were also other transactions at 
Suntransfer.com and NO1 Currency Leeds & Manchester airport. MBNA considered this 
showed that it was likely Mr S was aware of and had knowledge of the transaction on his 
credit card.
Mr S had said he had never has been to Turkey, and when our investigator informed Mr S of 
this information, Mr S said that had he noticed these transactions on his other bank account, 
he would have highlighted them as fraudulent as well.
Having considered this, I find it unlikely that either an unknown or known party to Mr S 
managed to obtain his other card, that Mr S hasnt said was lost or stolen, or obtained the 
card details to make the other transactions. This evidence reasonably leads me to conclude 
that Mr S was aware of the transaction on his credit card with MBNA given the other 
payments made for a Turkish Visa on his other bank account. I havent seen any other 
plausible explanation that would lead me to conclude there is another, more likely scenario, 
where all the transactions were made without Mr Ss consent or knowledge.I am also mindful that MBNA sent Mr S two texts and an email  alerting him that his credit 
card was nearing its limit. The first text alert was sent to him several hours after the disputed 
transaction, the second alert was sent by email on 16 September 2019 and then a further 
text alert on 17 September 2019. MBNA has provided evidence to show that the alerts were 
sent to Mr Ss correct email and mobile contact details. Given Mr S had just cleared his 
balance on 13 September and said he hadnt used his card subsequently, I would have 
expected him to query why his credit card was now nearing its limit one day later. But Mr S 
didnt contact MBNA until 4 October 2019.
I appreciate that Mr S says MBNA should have done more in verifying the transaction, as it 
was unusual and was for a considerable amount  using up all of his available limit. But Mr S 
had an available limit on his card, and as Mr Ss card details were used to authenticate the 
transaction, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBNA to execute the authorised payment. 
Sometimes we might say that the bank should intervene in payments that are unusual or out 
of character  which is what Mr S is suggesting should have happened here. Banks have to 
strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in payments, against the risk of unduly 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment requests. The reason for this is a great 
number of credit card payments are made each and every day. Also, people typically use 
credit cards for higher value purchases, emergencies, special occasions etc... In this 
particular case, having looked at Mr Ss statements and his pattern of spending, I can see he 
made large payments for various items. So I dont think the transaction here was so out of 
character or unusual, in relation to how the account is typically run, that it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect MBNA to block his card or query the transaction. The spending was 
within the credit limit, with the correct card details used  that only Mr S and MBNA knew. So 
Im not persuaded there was anything wrong in MBNA allowing the transaction to be made. 
Mr S was also unhappy MBNA, in its investigations into the disputed transactions, didnt 
contact the merchant in Turkey where the payment was made to. Mr S says had it done then 
this would have shown the transaction was fraudulently taken. I understand Mr Ss point  
but I disagree. Mr Ss card details were used, that only Mr S knew. The payment to the 
surgeon in Turkey may well have been placed or booked under a different name to Mr S  
but importantly it does not mean that Mr S didnt authorise the payment or wasnt aware of it 
or did not consent to it. A credit card can be used to pay for something that is for someone 
else. And MBNA, as Mr Ss card details were used, considered he had authorised the 
transaction and was therefore liable for the payment. 
Overall, taking everything into consideration, its hard for me to see how somebody other 
than Mr S, or somebody with his knowledge or authority, carried out the transaction Mr S is 
disputing. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask MBNA to reimburse him.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject 
my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman