DRN-3065653
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. Lloyds has given me a copy of the credit agreement that Mr W signed when 
he took out the credit card. In this, there was a section titled optional features which 
included PPI. Mr W had the choice of ticking a yes box to agree to take out PPI or a no 
box to decline it. I can see he ticked the yes box and I think it was equally clear he could 
have selected the no box if he didnt want the cover. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Ws circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr W was eligible for the cover 
and he didnt have any means to fall back on if he was unable to work due to sickness or 
unemployment, so I think he had a need for cover. 
Mr W was self-employed, but looking at the relevant policy document, his employment 
wouldnt have made it any more difficult for him to claim. Although Mr W has mentioned 
some medical issues that he had some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think 
it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. I say this because both of the medical 
problems he has mentioned were standalone issues that dont appear to have had any 
lasting effects on his health. So I dont think it made the policy unsuitable for him. There 
were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health and back problems. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr W as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr W would have declined the 
cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr W would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2021
 
Rebecca NorrisOmbudsman