DRN-4222652
The complaint
Company W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has failed to refund over £19,000 it 
lost to a scam. 
What happened
One of Ws employees (Ms P) fell victim to a scam on 24 November 2021 when she ended 
up making 12 payments totalling nearly £60,000 from Ws company account to a fraudster. 
This was a result of a scammer purporting to be from BT who reported that her internet 
connection had been compromised and that she should carry out some test transactions to 
improve security.  
W complained that Lloyds failed to prevent the scam despite there being highly unusual 
activity on the account. It also said that it shouldnt have executed the payments at all as it 
was under the impression that Ms Ps mandate to make payments had been removed. 
Lloyds said that Ws request to amend the payment mandates had been returned as the 
forms had not been completed correctly, so no amendment was made. However, it accepted 
that it should have intervened on the fifth payment made from Ws account in light of the 
unusual activity and therefore agreed to refund £39,355. 
W referred the matter to this service as it said that Lloyds should refund the first four 
payments lost to the scam as well  totalling £19,928:
Date Amount Running total
24/11/2021 13:25 £4,982 £4,982
24/11/2021 13:46 £4,982 £9,964
24/11/2021 13:51 £4,982 £14,946
24/11/2021 14:19 £4,982 £19,928
Despite several requests, Lloyds failed to provide our service with its file on Ws complaint. 
In the absence of any information from Lloyds  and based on the information provided by W 
 our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied the payments should have been 
refunded under the Contingent Reimbursement Model and so recommended that Lloyds 
refund the remaining four payments. Lloyds failed to provide any substantive response to the 
investigators findings, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
As Ive set out in the background to this complaint, Lloyds has failed to provide this 
service with its file of evidence in relation to Ws complaint despite several requests. 
DISP 3.5.9 (3) allows me to reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and 
also to take account of the failure by a party to provide information that has been 
requested.
In terms of who had authority to make payments from Ws account, Lloyds said it 
returned the paperwork requesting an amendment to the account mandate due to it 
being completed incorrectly and so no variation was made. The account was set up as 
requiring two people to authorise a payment online, and it doesnt appear that W took 
any steps to amend the Online Payment Controls for the account. So, I dont think Lloyds 
acted unreasonably by executing the payment instructions given they were authorised by 
Ms P and received secondary authorisation from another party on the account as well. It 
therefore no longer appears to be in dispute that the payments were in fact authorised by 
or on behalf of W with its consent.
The payments made to the scammers from Ws account were authorised push payments 
(APPs). Lloyds is a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), 
which requires firms to reimburse customers who have fallen victim to APP scams like 
the one W has fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And Im 
satisfied the CRM Code applies to the four transactions made from Ws account as listed 
in the payment table above. 
Other than making representations about whether our service has the relevant authority 
from W to consider the complaint  which Im satisfied we do, having received consent 
from its director  Lloyds hasnt put forwards any other substantive reasons as to why 
any of the exceptions within the Code should apply. And having reviewed the evidence, 
Im not persuaded that any of the exceptions would apply either. Ive not seen evidence, 
for example, that an effective warning was provided that was ignored by Ms P. And 
neither do I consider there to be enough basis to say that she had no reasonable basis 
for believing what she was being told to do.
As a result, Im not persuaded Lloyds has considered Ws claim fairly under the CRM 
Code. Im therefore satisfied it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for 
Lloyds to reimburse W the amount it lost through the four outstanding payments Lloyds 
chose not to refund.  
Even outside the provisions of the CRM Code, I also agree with the investigators 
conclusions in that Lloyds ought to have intervened when the third payment of £4,982 
was being attempted from Ws account, as it then became the third such payment to be 
made from the account in quick succession. This should have been viewed as 
suspicious and prompted Lloyds to question Ms P about the payment she was making. 
Had it done so, Im satisfied the scam would have been revealed and any further loss 
prevented from that point on.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund the four disputed payments that were lost to the scam  totalling £19,928
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount* *For the first two transactions, interest should be calculated from the date Ws claim was 
declined under the CRM Code until the date of settlement. For the third and fourth 
transactions, interest should be calculated from the date the payments were made until the 
date of settlement, as Im satisfied Lloyds ought to have intervened prior to these payments 
being made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman