DRN-3589608
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr H have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined part of a 
claim for storm damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr H contacted Ageas when they found damage to their home following a storm. 
Ageas accepted the claim, but said it wouldnt pay for damage to fences and gates as these 
werent covered by the policy. When Mrs B and Mr H complained, Ageas confirmed that the 
policy didnt cover damage to gates and fences.
So, Mrs B and Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said Ageas had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
As Mrs B and Mr H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I should note that Im aware Mrs B and Mr H dont agree with the amount Ageas has paid for 
the damage covered as part of the claim. However, Im only looking at Ageas actions up to 
when it issued the response to the complaint, which dealt with its decision not to pay for the 
damage to the gates and fences. Mrs B and Mr H would need to complain to Ageas about 
the settlement amount offered.
Ageas accepted the claim for storm damage and hasnt disputed that there was damage to 
the gates and fences. The issue is whether it was fair for Ageas to decline to cover damage 
to the fences and gates.
Looking at the wording of the policy, in the Storm section it had an exclusion that said: We 
wont cover you for damage to gates and fences. So, I think the policy explained that the 
storm peril didnt include cover for fences and gates.
Its my understanding that at least some of the fence was damaged when a tree fell on it. So, 
Ive also looked at the part of the policy that covered damage caused by moving objects, 
which the policy said included falling trees. This part of the policy had an exclusion that said: 
We also wont pay for damage to hedges, gates and fences. So, I think this part of the 
policy also explained it didnt provide cover for fences and gates.
It is common for home insurance policies to contain an exclusion for damage to gates and 
fences. So, I also dont think the policy terms are unusual.
Im aware that at one point during the claim, Ageas said the damage to the fence might be 
covered under the moving object part of the policy. However, following a review, it identified 
this wasnt the case. I can understand this would have disappointed Mrs B and Mr H, but 
Ageas made a mistake, which it then corrected. I cant fairly require Ageas to pay for 
damage that isnt covered by the policy.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Ageas to do 
anything further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman