DRN-3899341
The complaint
Miss A complains about the installation and the quality of nine windows and one exterior 
door in her home, which she paid for by using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc.
What happened
In May 2021 Miss A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Mitsubishi, to pay for the 
supply and installation of nine brand new windows and an exterior door. The door and the 
windows were supplied and fitted by a company who Ill call S.
After the installation was completed, Miss A signed a satisfaction note with S. But, around a 
month later, Miss A complained to S about the quality of the items she had bought and about 
the quality of the installation. Miss A also complained to S about some damage she says 
they caused to her washing machine.
By early 2022, Miss A hadnt managed to find a resolution with S. Although she says S 
offered to cover the cost of replacing the washing machine door as a gesture of goodwill. So, 
Miss A raised a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) with 
Mitsubishi. 
Over the next two months, Mitsubishi arranged for S to revisit Miss As home to look into her 
concerns about the installation. Mitsubishi also arranged for an independent engineer to 
produce a report on the quality of the items and the work to install them. In the meantime, 
Miss A contacted us to look into things. Miss A also says she started to purchase floor tiles, 
to put some of the repairs right herself.
The independent engineer gave Miss A and Mitsubishi their report in August 2022. The 
report found that the windows and the door conformed with building regulations and 
operated correctly. And while the report said the overall quality of the installation was good, 
some minor repairs were needed. The report estimated that the repairs would cost up to 
£700.
Following the engineers report, Mitsubishi offered to make arrangements with S for them to 
carry out the repairs identified. Alternatively, if Miss A didnt want S to make the repairs, 
Mitsubishi offered to refund Miss A for the cost, if she wanted a different tradesperson to 
carry them out.
Miss A didnt accept Mitsubishis offer and asked us to look into the outcome of her section 
75 claim. One of our investigators considered what had happened and found that Mitsubishi 
had treated Miss A fairly. She concluded that Mitsubishis offer to either arrange or pay for 
the repairs identified in the report was fair. The investigator also said Mitsubishi hadnt 
breached their contract with Miss A, when looking at the quality of the items. And she said S 
had already offered to pay for the replacement of the washing machine door.
Miss A didnt agree and said she wanted further compensation for the work shes paid for, to 
tile a whole floor surface. She also said Mitsubishis offer had come too late and it was 
outside of the scope of the engineers report.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions, so Miss As case now been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Id like Miss A to know that Im aware that S carried out the work to install the 
items into her home, over two years ago. While I can see that during this time, Miss A has 
arranged for some repairs herself, Ive thought very carefully about what has happened and 
the impact she says these events have had.
I also acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this, it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality.
But, I want to assure Miss A and Mitsubishi that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I 
dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
The section 75 claim
Miss A paid for the windows, the door and their installation using a fixed sum loan. This is a 
regulated consumer credit contract, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to 
these sorts of agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 makes Mitsubishi 
responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by S, under certain conditions. In 
Miss As case, I think the necessary agreement between the parties exists and the claim is 
within the relevant financial limits.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that traders must perform the service with reasonable care and skill. 
And that services should be performed within a reasonable amount of time. 
Additionally, the CRA implies terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. The CRA sets out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory 
rights under a goods or services contract are not met. 
It's important to note that Im not considering a complaint against S. Im considering a 
complaint against Mitsubishi. So, I have to consider Mitsubishis obligations as a provider of 
financial services. In this case their liability for breach of contract or misrepresentation under 
section 75. 
Its also important to note that compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by a 
supplier is limited with this type of complaint. I appreciate Miss A is very upset about whats 
happened in her dealings with S. But, I have to consider what Mitsubishi can be held 
responsible for, which is the like claim Miss A would have in court against the supplier for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
The quality of the windows and the doorMiss A wrote to S in January 2022 and said that shed be supplied with a substandard 
product. But, there isnt any further comment or paperwork to support why Miss A thought 
the items were not of a satisfactory quality. Much of Miss As further correspondence with S 
and then Mitsubishi, centres on the installation and the time taken to arrange for the 
engineers inspection.
From looking at the correspondence between Miss A and S, I can see that S wanted Miss A 
to agree to accept the findings, before the independent inspection had been carried out. This 
didnt help matters, as I dont think it was fair to expect Miss A to agree to an outcome that 
had yet to me made.
Other than what Miss A has told us, neither Miss A nor Mitsubishi have provided any 
evidence to show that the nine windows or the door have a fault. So, Ive thought about the 
comments made about the quality of the items in the engineers reports. On page six of the 
report, it says:
The windows and doors installed are compliant with all relevant building 
regulations.
And
All windows and doors operated correctly. 
Without any persuasive evidence to suggest otherwise here, on balance, I dont think a 
reasonable person would say the items bought using the fixed sum loan agreement are of 
unsatisfactory quality. So, I dont think there has been a breach of contract for the quality of 
the items provided by S. It then follows that I think Mitsubishi have treated this part of 
Miss As section 75 claim fairly.
The installation of the windows and the door
A month after the installation of the items Miss A bought using the fixed sum loan 
agreement, she complained to S about how the items had been fitted. She said, S had 
removed an existing doorstep and window sill without asking her and that the replacements 
didnt match what was there previously.
Miss A also said some of the windows had larger than expected gaps where the beads had 
been fitted. Furthermore, Miss A said the opening of the patio door wasnt smooth and 
caught on something when she tried to operate it.
Within the engineers report, I can see that on page nine it says:
The overall quality of this installation is good, however there are some minor 
remedial works to complete on the patio door and sealing or pointing under the rear 
first floor windows.
The engineer also commented on the window beading, where on page seven of the report it 
says:
In some locations the joint is not as tight, there is a gap of approximately 0.75mm. 
This slight inconsistency is within the industry accepted tolerance of 1mm and so it is 
my opinion that this issue is not one that requires further remedial action.
The report goes onto summarise what Miss A told the engineer about the removal of a 
window sill and tiled doorstep. While the report doesnt make a conclusion whether S has done something wrong, it does say that a tiled finish could be reinstated. The engineer also 
says the cost of the repairs are estimated to be between £500 and £700.
Ive considered the submissions from Miss A and Mitsubishi. Miss A has supplied some 
photographs of examples of things wrong with the instillation of the items. Mitsubishi and S 
have acknowledged where things have gone wrong. And I understand theres also been 
various attempts by S to remedy issues. 
So, along with the report, I think theres enough to demonstrate theres been a breach of 
contract because the installation wasnt carried out with reasonable skill and care. Where 
rights under a services contract arent met, the CRA sets out that depending on the 
circumstances, consumers can request a remedy. These remedies can include either repeat 
performance or a price reduction. So, Ive considered if the remedy offered by Mitsubishi is a 
fair resolution in Miss As case.
The settlement to Miss As complaint
Mitsubishi have offered to arrange for S to remove and replace the UPVC window boards 
from the window sill and the doorstep. The offer also includes work to repair the patio door, 
make good the doorstep and to repair the sealing under the first floor windows.
Should Miss A not wish for S to carry out the repairs, Mitsubishi have said they will 
reimburse her for the costs of employing her own tradesperson. 
Having considered everything, I think Mitsubishi have responded to Miss As section 75 
claim fairly. I think the offer allows Miss A to put the repairs noted in the engineers report 
right, either by using S, or a tradesperson of her choosing.
Mitsubishi havent said how much they would reimburse Miss A, if she chooses to ask a 
different tradesperson to carry out the repairs. But, given the estimates in the engineers 
report and considering its been a year since the report was produced, I think its fair that 
these costs are capped at £700. I also think its fair for Miss A to provide a description of the 
works and proof of payment, to claim back the cost from Mitsubishi.
Im aware that Miss A would like Mitsubishi to cover the cost of tiling the whole of a floor 
surface, when she saw that S had removed the tiles from the doorstep. However, I can see 
that Miss A bought the tiles to do this in April 2022, which was before the independent 
inspection had taken place.
Furthermore, I can see from Ss later correspondence with Miss A, that they are able to use 
a tile matching service, to replace the tiles that Miss A says were on the doorstep previously. 
While I understand why Miss A wanted a consistently tiled finish in her home, I think 
Mitsubishi had treated her fairly, by wanting an independent inspection first. Had Miss A not 
replaced the tiles herself before the report was done, on balance, I think the tile matching 
service offered by S would have been available to her. So, I dont think Mitsubishi needs to 
pay for the tiling of the whole floor, which Miss A has asked for.
During her complaint to us, Miss A says Mitsubishi offered to pay for the replacement of her 
washing machine door. Mitsubishi say any offer to do so by S, was made as a gesture of 
goodwill, rather than an admission that they caused the damage.
Ive looked at the photographs that Miss A has provided and I havent been able to see the 
damage Miss A has told us about. And I dont think the photographs prove that S was 
responsible. After taking everything into consideration, on balance, Im not persuaded S caused damage to the washing machine door.
The gesture of goodwill to pay for a replacement door by S, may still be available to Miss A. 
So, I leave it to her to decide if shed like to accept that that gesture and to contact S directly.
I appreciate Miss A is unhappy that shes been living with an installation that needs to be put 
right. However, I dont think the nature of the issues have caused significant physical 
inconvenience or discomfort. So, I dont it would be fair to ask Mitsubishi to make a payment 
to Miss A for the distress and inconvenience shes told us about.
Putting things right
To put things right, Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc should arrange for S to: 
remove and then replace the UPVC window boards in the cloakroom;
remove and then replace the UPVC window boards on the threshold to the back door
finish off and make good the backdoor step with concrete;
make the adjustment to the patio door; and
scrape out the sealant under the external sills of both bathroom and rear bedrooms 
and then to replace it with either clear silicone sealant, or point with sand and 
cement.
Or, if Miss A chooses, Mitsubishi should reimburse her the reasonable cost (up to £700) for 
the repairs, subject to a description of the works and evidence of the cost having been paid.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Mitsubishi HC Capital 
UK Plc should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman