DRN-2736067
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from 
falling victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Between 2017 and 2019 Mr P was sadly the victim of a scam. He made a series of 
payments to what he believed to be a genuine investment firm. But it turned out hed been in 
touch with scammers who were impersonating the genuine firm. As a result of the scam
Mr P made numerous payments totalling around £75,000. These went to accounts that the 
scammers directed him to pay, some of which were outside of the UK. 
In 2019 Mr P realised hed been the victim of a scam when he was unable to make a 
withdrawal from his investment. He realised hed been dealing with a cloned firm and 
contacted Natwest. Natwest in turn contacted the beneficiary banks who all reported that no 
funds remained to be returned. Mr P complained as he felt Natwest should have done more 
to protect him from fraud. Natwest wouldnt reimburse the loss and the complaint was 
referred to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
In summary he didnt think the payments made to the scam investment were so unusual as 
to warrant intervention from Natwest. He also thought Natwest had done all they could to try 
to recover Mr Ps funds. As he disagrees, Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made reference to various aspects of what Natwest told our service in their 
submissions on this complaint. This includes their suggestions that Mr P ought to have done 
more due diligence prior to investing, that he was an experienced investor and how open he 
would have been to any warnings had they intervened at the time. Ive considered these but 
I dont need to address each point to decide this complaint. My role isnt solely to assess 
Natwests complaint response. I need to decide if Natwest could or should have done more 
in the circumstances and if they should have done more, whether this would have made a 
difference. Accordingly, my decision will focus on those issues. 
It is common ground that Mr P authorised the scam payments totalling around £75,000. At 
the time he believed he was making a genuine investment. I accept that these were 
authorised payments even though Mr P was the victim of a scam. He provided valid 
instructions. So, although he didnt intend to pay the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr P is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Natwest to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Natwests 
first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr P provides. But if those instructions are 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Natwest to intervene and 
to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing it. Id also 
expect Natwest to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their customers 
make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There might also be 
cases where its appropriate for Natwest to refuse to follow the instruction if there are good 
grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam.
The starting point here is to consider whether the instructions Mr P gave to Natwest were 
unusual in relation to the typical account activity.
To do this Ive reviewed the account statements prior to the scam payments being made. 
The account typically maintained a healthy credit balance. Within the relevant time it wasnt 
unusual for payments of several thousand pounds to be sent from the account. Examples of 
some of the genuine external transfers made from the account include:
Around £5,000 in November 2017;
Nearly £6,000 in March 2018 and
Over £8,500 in May 2018. 
The largest individual payment made as a result of the scam was in the region of £10,000 
but the majority were around £4,000 or less. In this context, I dont think payments of the 
type Mr P instructed to go to the scammer can fairly be said to be particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic for his account. 
The payments made as a result of the scam were spread over years, rather than being 
made in very quick succession which can be indicative of fraud. Banks must be alert to 
fraud, but they must also balance this without unduly interfering in customers accessing their 
accounts. Ive considered that some of the payments were international (something Mr P 
didnt typically instruct) but I dont think that is enough to mean that Natwest should have 
done more. Overall, Im not persuaded in the circumstances of this complaint, that Natwest 
failed by not contacting Mr P at the time prior to processing any of the payments.
Once Mr P informed Natwest that his payments had been made as the result of a scam, 
Natwest acted promptly. The beneficiary banks reported that no funds remained to be 
returned. I dont think Natwest are responsible for errors which prevented the recovery of 
any of Mr Ps funds. It is sadly a common feature of these scams that the funds are quickly 
moved on from the beneficiary accounts. 
Im aware that Natwest have signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
which is a voluntary scheme through which victims of APP fraud are often able to receive 
reimbursement from the banks involved. However, none of the payments in this case are 
subject to the CRM. They either pre-date its introduction or were international payments 
which are specifically excluded. As such, I cant use the CRM as the basis to ask Natwest to 
do more. Im sorry Mr P has lost such a significant amount of money to cruel scammers. And I dont 
doubt for a moment the huge impact this must have had. But it would only be fair for me to 
uphold this complaint if Natwest were responsible for failures which otherwise would have 
prevented the loss or would have resulted in recovery of the funds. I dont think they were 
and so I cant fairly tell them they need to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman