DRN-2704209
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFUM) unfairly handled a claim against her motor insurance policy and is seeking to 
recover its costs from her.
Reference to NFUM includes its agents.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2021. Ive copied the relevant extracts below. 
I said:
Mrs Ns car was damaged in an incident in a car park when her son, who was a named 
driver on her policy, had control of the car. Some months later Mrs N submitted a claim to 
NFUM for the damage. In support of the claim she provided an estimate for the cost of 
repair.
NFUM had concerns that the repair estimate wasn't genuine. It instructed external 
investigators to look into the matter. Mrs Ns son then acknowledged hed altered the 
garages estimate. As a result NFUM refused to pay Mrs Ns claim and cancelled her policy. 
It later asked her to repay the costs it had incurred investigating the claim and for the legal 
advice it had taken. The total figure it was seeking to recover was around £6,105.
Mrs N didn't think that was fair and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She didn't think it was fair for NFUM to charge Mrs N for its costs. NFUM didn't 
agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide. While the case was awaiting my 
attention NFUM reviewed the sums it was asking Mrs N to repay. Having done so it told us it 
would reduce the amount it was asking Mrs N to pay to £4,115.60.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im aware that, since we began looking into this complaint, Mrs N has raised a number of 
other points of concern about NFUMs dealings with her. But in this decision I'm going to 
focus on the complaint she initially put to us, which was that NFUM was unfairly trying to 
recover its costs for investigating the claim from her. So I'm not going to comment on the 
other concerns Mrs N has since raised.
Its not in dispute that Mrs Ns son altered the garages estimate to artificially inflate the costs 
of the claim. NFUM said that in doing so Mrs Ns son was committing an act of fraud on 
Mrs Ns behalf. Its not for me to decide whether or not an individual has acted fraudulently. 
My role is limited to whether or not NFUM has acted fairly and reasonably.
NFUM clearly believes that Mrs Ns claim included an attempted fraud. I can understand its 
position. It seems Mrs Ns son deliberately amended or falsified the garages estimate to try 
and inflate the pay-out for the claim. The car involved in the incident belonged to Mrs N and 
the claim was against the policy in her name. And if NFUM had paid the claim at an inflated 
sum then Mrs N would have stood to benefit from that. Also I note that NFUM engaged 
lawyers to advise it on the appropriate actions to take. And having received that advice 
NFUM applied the terms of the policy referring to fraudulent acts. I think that decision was 
reasonable.
Mrs Ns policy says that if a fraudulent claim is made then NFUM may seek to recover any 
sums its paid in respect of that claim from Mrs N. So I've thought very carefully about 
whether its reasonable for NFUM to seek to recover its investigation and legal costs from 
Mrs N. 
Our investigator said that as the attempted fraud was clear, the claim wasn't paid and the 
case was unlikely to go to court, it wasnt necessary for NFUM to instruct external 
investigators trained to take court compliant statements or to incur legal costs. But I don't 
agree. Fraud is a serious allegation, it goes to someone's integrity, it alleges a criminal act 
(and might expose them to the risk of criminal investigation and prosecution) and it has 
serious repercussions for an individual's ability to obtain insurance for years to come. So, 
before deciding a policyholder has most likely committed fraud, I think its reasonable that an 
insurer like NFUM has enough evidence on which to base such an allegation.
NFUMs told us that when it receives a tip-off from a member of the public alleging a 
fraudulent act it can't simply accept that allegation at face value. I agree thats the case. 
Indeed I would think it unfair if an insurer accepted that a policyholder had acted fraudulently 
without carefully looking into that allegation. So, having received a tip-off I think NFUM had 
an obligation to consider it and decide if there were legitimate concerns.
Further, as far as I'm aware, if it hadn't been for the attempted fraud and the tip-off then its 
likely NFUM could have progressed the claim without instructing external investigators to 
scrutinise it. And, in those circumstances, if it wasn't for the attempted fraud, NFUM wouldn't 
have incurred those additional costs. In other words the attempted fraud directly caused 
NFUM to incur costs it wouldn't otherwise have had to pay.
Our investigator also said that, as the case was unlikely to go to court, NFUM didn't need to 
incur the costs of instructing investigators trained in taking court compliant statements and 
could have dealt with the matter in-house. But at the time NFUM instructed investigators it 
still hadn't determined if there had been an attempted fraud. While it suspected that was the 
case I've seen no evidence that it had already decided that was so. That means that it 
couldn't have known, before concluding its investigation, exactly what evidence would be 
given in the statements the investigators took or what the outcome would be, or if in fact 
there was a reasonable explanation that didn't point to fraud. So I think it was reasonable for 
NFUM to instruct suitably trained external investigators.
Similarly, when deciding how to respond to the attempted fraud NFUM instructed lawyers for 
advice and incurred costs as a result. And, given that an allegation of fraud is a serious 
matter, I think it was reasonable that NFUM should want to ensure its actions were legally 
sound. It follows that I think it was reasonable for it to instruct lawyers to try to ensure that 
was the case causing it to incur costs. Those were costs that it wouldn't have had to pay if it 
hadn't been for the attempted fraud. It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this case, 
I think its fair for NFUM to ask Mrs N to repay the reasonable costs its incurred as a result of 
the alleged attempted fraud.
That said, I've noted that NFUMs reviewed the costs its incurred. And its agreed that some 
of those could have been avoided. In particular it said that one of the interviews the 
investigators conducted wasn't necessary and some of its contact with legal advisors was over and above what could have been expected in other cases. As a result, its removed 
those extra costs from the overall funds its seeking to recover from Mrs N and reduced that 
sum to £4,115.60. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
Neither Mrs N nor NFUM commented on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs N nor NFUM objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that its reasonable for NFUM to seek to 
recover costs amounting to £4,115.60 from Mrs N.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman