DRN-3625757
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) withdrew her private medical 
cover for follow up consultations following definitive surgery, as her condition was 
considered as chronic.
What happened
Ms B has private medical cover through her employer. AXA is the underwriter on the policy.
In February 2017, Ms B was referred to an orthopaedic specialist for her worsening bilateral 
hip pain. A new claim was registered by AXA and shortly after, Ms Bs treatment on her left 
hip began. Following surgery, Ms B had various treatments which included consultations and 
physiotherapy.
In February 2020, AXA wrote to Ms B and said it thought the condition had become chronic 
and therefore from 1 April 2020 onwards, it would no longer pay the continuing treatment for 
her bilateral hip condition and associated symptoms. It said what it would pay for depended 
on the terms and conditions of the policy and any monetary limits.
AXA also later authorised Ms Bs left hip replacement operation which took place in 
September 2020. It only covered two months of treatment for this which included scans, 
physiotherapy and consultations following this surgery. No further follow-up treatments were 
paid for by AXA thereafter. 
Ms B complained to AXA because she thought it was unfair for it exclude cover for both hips 
as her right hip wasnt yet treated in February 2020.She thought AXA had unfairly decided 
her condition is chronic because of the longer cycle of recovery and treatment. AXA looked 
into the complaint and said as Ms B had been receiving treatment since February 2017, 
under the terms and conditions of the policy, this would be defined as a chronic condition 
and it said the terms and conditions have been applied fairly.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Ms B brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that AXA fairly withdrew cover 
for the non-surgical treatment of both hips in February 2020 because the information 
available suggests Ms Bs hip dysplasia met one or more of the criteria for a chronic 
condition under her policy terms and conditions. 
Ms B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy as this forms the basis of 
the insurance contract with AXA.
Chronic conditions are defined on page 21 of the policy booklet. This says:
Chronic conditions 
A chronic condition is a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the 
following characteristics: 
 it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups or tests 
 it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
 it requires your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
 it continues indefinitely 
 it has no known cure 
 it comes back or is likely to come back.
The policy does explain that in certain situations your specialist can start your treatment. 
And, it also goes on to explain what happens if a condition is chronic. This says:
If your condition is chronic, there will be a limit to how long we cover your treatment.
If we are not able to continue to cover your treatment, we will tell you beforehand so
you can decide whether to start paying for the treatment yourself, or to transfer to the
NHS. 
I can see that treatment started in February 2017 until February 2020, AXA covered the cost 
of all consultations, surgeries, physiotherapy and other related treatments. AXA wrote to 
Ms B in February 2020 to provide notice that further cover wont be available from 1 April 
2020 onwards because her condition was now considered as chronic. It authorised further 
consultations and an x-ray until 1 April 2020. AXA also later covered the hip replacement 
surgery in September 2020 and any consultations and physiotherapy for a further two 
months. After this point, no further cover was available for follow up consultations for the 
condition. Having considered how AXA communicated with Ms B and informed her of its 
decision, Im satisfied AXA hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in the overall 
circumstances of the complaint.
With regard to whether the condition should have been considered chronic from February 
2020 onwards, I think AXA has shown the bilateral hip dysplasia meets the definition of a 
chronic condition. I say this based on the treatment history of Ms Bs condition, it needed 
ongoing or long-term control. Based on the evidence, I can also see that the condition 
needed ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups or 
tests. The policy clearly explains that there will be a limit to how long AXA would continue to 
provide treatment for the condition and I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to treat the 
hip dysplasia as a chronic condition from 1 April 2020. 
I appreciate Ms Bs comments that as her surgeon was focusing on the treatment of one hip 
(rather than both together) and because there was a period of recovery, it looked like it was 
a longer process. Ms B has said both hips werent treated at the same time and this made it look like the condition was chronic. I understand how she feels but AXA authorised treatment 
from February 2017 and its not unreasonable for it to review the cover three years later and 
apply the exclusion. This isnt unusual. While the treatment was based on one hip, follow-up 
treatment was ongoing. Ive also taken into account that while AXA withdrew treatment from 
1 April 2020, it did authorise the surgery in September 2020 and any follow-up consultations 
and physiotherapy for a further two months. I think this is more than reasonable. AXA 
excluded any follow up consultations following a definitive surgery and I dont think thats 
unreasonable looking at whats happened and the policy terms and conditions. In its 
communication to Ms B in February 2020, it said no further follow-up treatment would be 
covered but I can see it went on and did cover further treatment until April 2020 and in 
September 2020.
Overall, Im sorry to disappoint Ms B, but based on all the available evidence, I dont think 
AXA has unfairly or unreasonably withdrawn cover for her hip dysplasia. Im also satisfied 
that in now deciding the condition to be chronic, AXA hasnt treated Ms B unfairly or 
unreasonably. It follows that I dont require AXA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint against AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman