DRN-4413232
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
unfairly declined a claim on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr L took out a pet insurance policy online with C&G to cover his dog whom Ill 
call M. The policy renewed in June 2022.
In March 2023 M became unwell. He was vomiting and drinking a lot. After some 
investigation the vet carried out surgery to remove a foreign body from his intestine.
Mr L made a claim under the policy for the cost of the treatment. C&G declined the claim. It 
said the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions and as the dog had been taken to the vet 
because of ingesting foreign bodies before the policy was taken out, it was treating this as a 
pre-existing condition. 
Mr Ls vet confirmed that the claim wasnt related to any previous condition and the cause 
was an accident. As C&G didnt change its decision, Mr L brought a complaint to this 
service. Initially our Investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld but she later 
changed her decision. On reflection she didnt think C&G had treated Mr L unfairly.
As Mr L didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy, like many other pet insurance bodies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions.
The policy defines a pre-existing condition as: 
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has happened 
or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date 
or within the Waiting Period.
Associated Condition is defined as a Condition that is either a recurring illness and/or 
Accidental Injury or Lump, or related to a previous illness and/or Accidental Injury or Lump; 
or caused by a previous illness and/or Accidental Injury or Lump. When applying the Benefit 
limit and the terms of this Policy, any Treatment for an Associated Condition will be 
considered as one Condition, regardless of when the treatment occurred.
This service has a longstanding approach when considering complaints regarding pre-
existing conditions. We consider it fair and reasonable for a business to decline a claim on 
the basis of a pre-existing condition only where the consumer had reasonable knowledge of 
something that could at some point give rise to a claim.
In this case Ms clinical history reveals that January 2018 M was taken to the vet as he had 
been vomiting for about three weeks. The vet noted that M was not really a scavenger but 
does chew toys. After opening up Ms abdomen the vet removed a foreign body. According 
to the notes Mr L couldnt identify the foreign body or where it had come from. Mr L made a 
claim to another insurer for the cost of the treatment.
In October 2020 Mr L took M to the vet as M had been chewing on something and it was 
suspected that something was stuck in his oesophagus. X-rays showed something that 
might have been a foreign body was in Ms stomach, so the vet said it should pass by itself 
without the need for surgery.
In March 2023 Mr L took M to the vet as he had been vomiting. X-rays revealed a foreign 
body in Ms intestine which was removed by surgery. 
I think its reasonable to assume that before he took the policy out in June 2021 Mr L knew 
M was liable to eat things that werent meant to be eaten when given the chance. Given this, 
I am persuaded it is fair and reasonable for C&G to rely on the pre-existing exclusion to 
decline the claim in this instance.
Mr L has also complained about the fact that C&G didnt provide him with the definitions of 
Condition and Associated Condition before he bought the policy and as a result he wasnt 
aware of the full extent of the exclusion for pre-existing conditions. C&G has provided 
evidence of the sales journey Mr L would have followed when he bought the policy online 
through a price comparison website. It didnt recommend the policy to Mr L, so it didnt need 
to make sure the policy was suitable for his needs. It had a responsibility to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an informed 
decision on whether the policy was suitable for him.
As part of the sales process Mr L would have been told:
Did you know
Pet insurance is meant to protect against future events. This means it wont cover [name of 
pet] for any known medical conditions., illness or injuries that he already has (pre-existing 
conditions). If you want to cover anything [name of pet] already suffers with then youll need 
to speak to a specialist provider.
Mr L would have been asked whether he wanted cover for any pre-existing medical condition 
and a pop-up description of pre-existing conditions said:
Specific definitions might vary between insurers but most categorise a pre-existing condition 
as:
A condition that occurred or showed symptoms before the policy was taken out
A condition that results in the same diagnosis that your pet had before the policy was 
bought
A condition resulting from an illness or injury your pet had before you took the policy 
out
In this case I think it is sufficiently clear that a claim for a condition that M had had 
previously, namely ingesting a foreign body, wouldnt be covered under this policy. 
Like many insurers that advertise on price comparison websites, C&G provided a brief list 
online of the benefits and exclusions of the policy. It didnt list every circumstance in which a 
claim wouldnt be covered. I dont think thats unreasonable. After Mr L bought the policy, 
C&G emailed him a copy of it and recommended he should read it. The policy set out in detail the definitions on which C&G later relied to decline the claim. This would have enabled 
Mr L to make an informed decision about whether the policy was suitable for him within the 
14-day cooling off period during which Mr L could have cancelled the policy without a 
financial penalty.
Overall Im satisfied that Mr L was provided with clear information about the exclusion for 
pre-existing conditions and I cant fairly hold C&G responsible if he didnt realise the full 
impact of the wording.
I appreciate Mr Ls frustration at finding he wasnt covered for vets fees when he and his vet 
believed he should have been. But based on the online sales journey and the policy wording 
I cant see that C&G has treated him unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman