DRN-4496281
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system with battery, voltage optimiser, boiler doctor, and heating control 
(the system)
What happened
In May 2017, Mrs J bought the system from a supplier (which Ill call P) using a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited, which was repayable over 15 years.
In September 2021, Mrs J engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which sent 
Shawbrook a letter of claim alleging that P had misrepresented the system, breached its 
contract with Mrs J, and that Mrs Js relationship with Shawbrook was unfair on her because:
There were misleading figures in the quote  specifically the putting it all together 
table, which had the following issues:
oThe voltage optimiser savings were too high, which was not supported by 
industry reports that were available at the time.
oThe electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self- 
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-
consumption rate that was used.
oThe cost of credit was missing from the table, distorting the return on investment 
to make the system more attractive.
The supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some other 
cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated.
Mrs J also mentioned in her witness statement that she was told the savings and income 
from the system would cover the loan repayments from the start. She realised from reading 
the quote shortly after the meeting that the quote did not say the system was self-funding. 
And shortly after installation that the benefits of the system did not cover the monthly loan 
repayments.
Shawbrook did not uphold the claim and the CMC referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about this. Our investigator considered the matter and thought the 
complaint should be upheld. Shawbrook disagreed and provided some comments from the
supplier, including that Mrs J delayed applying for Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments for over 
six months, so missed out on some income that she wouldve otherwise received.
Because the investigator has been unable to resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make 
a decision. I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold the 
complaint and giving Mrs J and Shawbrook the opportunity to respond with anything further 
they wanted me to take into account when making my final decision. 
Shawbrook did not respond by the deadline given. Mrs Js representative responded to say 
that they accepted my provisional decision. So, this final decision is in line with that, and I do 
not uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
I have the power to consider whether Shawbrooks failure to uphold the claim was fair and 
reasonable. In doing so I must take into account relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
sections 75 and 140 of the Act, plus Section 56, since that says that the creditor can be held 
liable for what the supplier has said to the consumer prior to them taking out the credit 
agreement.
I have read all of the CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions and taken all of these into 
account when making my decision.
The quote
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mrs J during the sales meeting. It was signed by 
her at that time. She has also confirmed receiving a copy during the meeting and reading it 
afterwards. This prompted some concerns, which she emailed the supplier about. Despite 
receiving no response, Mrs J says she assumed what shed been told  that the system 
would be self-funding, was accurate.
With this in mind, including that Mrs J was not sufficiently concerned by the contents of the 
quote to pursue the matter at the time, I think the quote provides important evidence of what 
was likely discussed before Mrs J agreed to the purchase.
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £14,500.00. However, the overall cost to Mrs J was more, due to her paying 
for the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 180 payments of £154.93 
per month. This was 11p per month more than the actual amount on the credit agreement. 
But I think Mrs J wouldve understood from the quote roughly how much the loan would cost 
per month.
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through 180 monthly 
payments of £153.82. It shows the total amount payable would be £27,887.60. So, I think 
that the monthly and total overall cost that Mrs J would pay for the system was made clear to 
her when she agreed to buy it.
Allegation  the voltage optimizer saving contradicts reports available at the time of sale and was beyond the range of reasonableness
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified than I am 
to know if it was reasonable at that time.
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could provide 
various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range.
It appears to me that P estimated the benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew 
about the product it was selling, Mrs Js home and how she used electricity. I am not 
persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable.
Allegation  The electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-consumption rate 
that was used
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 75%. Self- 
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Mrs J could use herself, rather than exporting it to the grid. My understanding 
is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the customer and 
how she used electricity.
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. And I have not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this 
instance.
I understand Ps methods were checked by an industry body before P started using them, 
and no objection to Ps methods was raised at that time. So, I think that, for the time when 
the quote was prepared, I cant reasonably conclude that the self-consumption rate was 
unreasonable.
The electricity savings from the solar panels were based on reasonable assumptions about 
the amount of electricity generated by the system and the self-consumption rate. So, I dont 
think those savings estimates were a misrepresentation. That remains the case even if the 
savings have not in fact been as high as estimated.
The savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is beyond 
Ps control. The quote also included the following clarification in the section about electricity 
bill savings  The amounts saved will depend on the amounts used. So, I dont think the 
estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed, nor do I think they were a 
contractual term.
Allegation - the cost of credit was missing from the putting it all together table, distorting the return on investment to make the system appear more attractive
The putting it all together table would have been clearer if the table had included the cost of 
credit. However, I must consider the sale as a whole, not just one table in one of the 
documents that was provided at the time of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mrs J 
knew what she was paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was shown on 
the credit agreement. So, she could compare this to the estimated benefits before deciding 
to buy the system.
In addition to this, the repayments table did incorporate the cost of credit into its illustration 
of the benefits of the system. It showed the annual benefit would not exceed the annual loan 
repayments until year 4.
The estimated performance table also showed it would be about 12 years before the 
overall benefits of the system exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
Allegation - the supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some 
other cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated 
The CMC has said in 10% of cases it had seen against P the inflation data used did not 
match the underlying inflation data the quote referred to. This does not strike me as a 
systemic issue which would lead me to think that P misled customers in every case.
It appears likely to have been a result of human error rather than fraudulently or deliberately 
done to mislead. Some of those errors resulted in a lower inflation rate being used  thereby 
making the potential benefits of the system appear less than wouldve been the case if no 
error had occurred, which would make the system less attractive to customers, not more.
In this case there is no suggestion that the inflation rate used didnt match the underlying 
data the supplier referred to. So, there was no detriment to Mrs J in this case. And the quote 
warned that inflation may be higher or lower than the rate used.
I think Ps method for calculating an assumed inflation rate was reasonable. And I dont think 
it was a breach of contract or misrepresentation just because actual inflation has not 
matched Ps assumption.
Allegation  Mrs J was told the savings and income from the system would cover the loan 
repayments from the start
Im not persuaded that it is likely that Mrs J was told this. The repayments table mentioned 
above directly compared the benefits of the system with the illustrative monthly loan 
repayments. This showed that the estimated benefits of the system would be less than the 
loan repayments until four years after installation.
The estimated benefits over 25 years table showed the total benefits would not exceed the 
total payable under the credit agreement until about 12 years. This allowed Mrs J to 
compare her loan repayments with the annual benefit shown for each year.
Elsewhere the quote also showed the total first year benefit, which was much less than the 
annual loan repayments.
Mrs J may have been told the system was self-funding overall since it was projected to 
benefit her by more than the loan repayments over 25 years.
SummaryI have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. Or that undue pressure was applied to Mrs J.
I think the information provided to Mrs J before she agreed to the purchase showed the cost 
and expected benefits of the system based on reasonable assumptions. The expected 
benefits were set out over 25 years, with warnings that those benefits were not guaranteed. I 
think it is likely that this was discussed with Mrs J before she agreed to the purchase.
With this in mind, I dont think Shawbrook did anything wrong when not upholding Mrs Js 
Section 75 claim.
In summary, my findings are that:
There was no misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P. As such, I 
dont think Shawbrook would have any liability under section 75 of the Act.
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship 
between Shawbrook and Mrs J due to the way P sold the system to her.
Shawbrook did not act unreasonably by not upholding Mrs Js claim or her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman