DRN-3699855
The complaint
Mr W complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
(Argos Card) declined his request for a refund.
What happened
Mr W has a store card account with Argos Card which he used to buy several items from a
third-party retailer who I will call A. Mr W made these purchases over the 12-month period
immediately prior to complaining by phone to Argos Card. This phone call took place in
October 2021. Mr W indicated that he wanted to return all of the items which he suggested
were all faulty. Specifically, Mr W asked Argos Card to carry out chargebacks to get his
money back. In the course of that conversation Mr W also complained about the actions of
A.
During the telephone call Argos Card declined to carry out a chargeback because it said
chargeback is not available with Mr Ws type of account. Further, later when it responded in
writing in its final response, it indicated it could not help Mr W any more than it had already 
done because he would not tell it what the products were and what was wrong with them. 
Therefore, it was unable to try any other route to get his money back.
Dissatisfied, Mr W complained to our service.
Once his complaint was with us Mr W made it clear that in his opinion, Argos Card was 
equally responsible for the things Mr W thought A had done wrong.
I issued a provisional decision. This is what I said in that decision, about what Id 
provisionally decided and why.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to 
be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Mr W feels very strongly about the actions of A. Mr W tells us he has a 
disability. He has told us about, several issues with A, amongst other things, which he tells 
us amount to A discriminating against him by reason of the disability Mr W tells us he has. 
These complaint points are about the behaviour of A when it acted as a retailer. However, I 
have no power to look at a complaint about A in its capacity as a retailer. We have made 
this point to Mr W on several occasions, but I want to underline this to Mr W again as he 
appears dissatisfied that we cannot look at these matters.
In addition, once he came to us Mr W raised new matters about why he tells us Argos 
Card too has discriminated against him by reason of his disability. Although sometimes he 
has then gone on to tell us about the actions of A and to attribute these to Argos Card. 
These new matters have not been considered by Argos Card. They are not mentioned in 
the final response from Argos Card. It follows that I am unable to look at these matters in 
this decision.
The finance agreement, that is the store card agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to 
it.
Mr W initially asked Argos Card to raise a chargeback on his behalf. Chargeback is a 
process which allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there is a 
problem with goods or services that they have paid for. However, chargeback is not a 
process that is available for all transactions paid for using credit. Chargeback is not 
available for purchases made with Mr Ws store card. Argos Card told Mr W this and 
explained why itd not be able to go down this route for him. Argos Card gave Mr W correct 
information about this part of his complaint. It follows that I have no proper basis for saying 
Argos Card has to take any further action in relation to this part of Mr Ws complaint. I 
dont uphold it.
Mr W used a store card to buy items that he says are faulty. Specifically, he indicates that 
the items fell below the standard he is entitled to expect as a consumer, that is that the 
goods are not of satisfactory quality. In turn Mr W suggests this is a breach of contract. Mr 
W seeks to hold Argos Card to account for this. He has asked for a refund.
Due to the type of credit he used to buy the items Mr W potentially has rights under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) in relation to the quality of the goods. But before I can look at the quality 
issues I have to look to see if Mr W can hold Argos Card to account at all for what he 
suggests has gone wrong here.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ws complaint, I have to 
take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, 
Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court might reach if Mr W pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts and operates differently 
from them.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr W has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the supplier, here that is A, he can also bring a like claim against Argos 
Card provided certain conditions are met. One of those conditions relates to the cost of the 
single item. In particular the cost of each single item Mr W complains about has to be more 
than £100. Only one of the items he has told us about fits this criterion. It follows that for 
the items that cost £100 or less I have no fair or reasonable basis for saying that Argos 
Card acted incorrectly when I take account of relevant law.
As to the remaining item. Based on the information I have I can see Argos Card asked Mr W 
to tell it which items he was complaining about and tell it what he thought was wrong with 
them. I recognise that Mr W explained he was unable to answer the latter question because 
he is not an engineer and did not have the technical knowledge to make a technical 
assessment. That said, I dont find that Argos Card acted unreasonably in asking him what 
items he was complaining about, I accept its stance that it did not have that information.
Moreover, Argos Card was trying to establish what was wrong with the items. I find that was 
reasonable. It was not asking Mr W to provide an expert view, rather it was asking him to 
tell it what he was complaining about.Further, it seems that Mr W no longer has the relevant item. So, I cant see how it will now 
be possible for Argos Card to assess the quality of the item, in any event. On that basis I 
dont think Argos could reasonably do anything further for Mr W in relation to this 
complaint.
For all of these individual reasons, I dont find that Argos Card acted inappropriately
therefore I dont uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint.
My provisional decision was that I did not intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I invited the parties to respond to my provisional decision. As far as I am aware we received 
no response from Argos Card. However, Mr W responded to say that he had kept the item 
that cost more than £100 for six months. But he had not been able to tell Argos Card what 
was wrong with the item as he was not qualified to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr W for his response to my provisional decision. Ive reviewed the file again and 
revisited my provisional decision.
I recognise that Mr W concluded that Argos Card was asking him to give an expert opinion 
about what was wrong with the item he was complaining about. I agree if that had happened 
that would not have been fair or reasonable. But nothing I have seen suggests that Argos 
Cards actions or words reasonably gave that impression. Rather, I think it was merely 
asking Mr W to tell it, in his own words, why he was dissatisfied with the items. I think it 
made this clear and I think that was a fair request in the circumstances. So I dont find that 
Argos Card acted inappropriately in asking for details about why Mr W was unhappy with the 
item.
In the light of the history of this complaint, I think it is necessary for me to underline again 
that A and Argos Card are two separate legal entities. A is not a party to this complaint.  So 
in this decision I cant look at anything that relates to Mr Ws complaint A. 
Ive not been persuaded by Mr Ws response to my provisional decision. It follows Ive 
reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman