DRN-1963818
 
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) has been unable to trace a 
Childrens Savings Bond her mother took out for her.
What happened
Miss C's mother recently discovered the receipt for payment of £1,000 into a bond in 
September 1993. As Miss C was unaware of any payment having subsequently been made 
for it, she asked NS&I to see if it could find a record of the bond and what payment might 
now be due. 
NS&I searched its records but couldn't find any information relating to the bond. It explained 
that it didn't retain records indefinitely as it was neither a regulatory requirement 
nor financially viable to do so. It said the existence of the receipt didn't mean that the bond 
was still valid and it may have already been cashed in. 
Miss C didn't accept this and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. She said NS&I had provided 
copies of computer screenshots that demonstrated it had attempted to find details of 
the bond. The investigator also explained the terms of the bond. She said that at age 16 the 
child took control of the bond and could cash it in. It had an initial five-year term but could be 
retained until the child reached age 21, after which no more interest or bonuses would be 
added. The investigator felt this indicated it was possible the bond had already been cashed 
in, as Miss C would've turned 21 in 2002.
Miss C didn't accept the investigator's view. She said that she understood records couldn't 
be kept indefinitely, but that there must be at least £1,000 somewhere and that was quite a 
lot of money to her. She asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
There are three possibilities as to what happened to the bond. It is either still invested, it has 
been cashed in, or it was never started at all. 
The only documentation we have available is a receipt for the payment, which was intended 
to be held until a bond certificate was issued. So it could be that for one reason or another 
the issuing of the certificate never happened. But I think that's a very unlikely possibility.So, if we assume that the investment was definitely made and a bond certificate issued, then 
what is most likely to have subsequently happened in light of the other evidence? 
Miss C has no recollection of ever receiving money from the bond. But given its terms I 
think it's most likely that if a payment was made, it would've been before, or when, Miss C 
reached age 21 in 2002, so almost 20 years ago. Therefore, while I acknowledge it's a 
reasonably large sum of money, and would've had interest and bonuses added, there is the 
possibility that given the passage of time Miss C's forgotten that payment was made.
I'm satisfied that NS&I has carried out comprehensive searches of its records and hasn't 
been able to find any details of the bond. And this is what I would expect if the bond had 
been cashed in nearly 20 years ago. I accept that NS&I would have no requirement to keep 
records of it for this long following encashment. 
There is also the possibility that it has simply failed to find the bond. But I think that's 
unlikely. I've no reason to doubt the effectiveness of its record-keeping systems.
So, in all the circumstances, while I recognise Miss C will be very disappointed, I think that, 
on balance, the most likely explanation of what has happened is that the bond was cashed in 
many years ago. I accept that I can't say this with absolute certainty, but I have to decide 
one way or another, and I don't think the evidence taken as a whole supports the alternative 
possibility - that the bond is still invested.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman