DRN-1670824
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc delayed providing him with the information he needed 
to enable him to complete his tax return and also provided him with the wrong information.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr T disposed of all of his holdings within his OEIC. From the information I 
have seen £19,996 was disposed of on 11 April 2017 to pay into his ISA and the balance of 
£177,985 was sold and paid into his fast track account with Santander on 18 April 2017.
In August 2018 he was sent a Capital Gains report showing a gain in excess of £53,000. 
After he received this he asked Santander to provide him with further information so he could 
complete his tax return but he had to chase it to get this information. 
In a final response letter (FRL) dated 11 April 2019 Santander accepted that there had been 
failings. It referred to an initial response that had been provided on 12 December 2018 which 
it said had included the information Mr T wanted but which he didnt receive and when it 
provided a copy of this letter later it didnt then include the information he had asked for. It 
also acknowledged that there was information in the letter that wasnt relevant. The FRL also 
acknowledged that there was a lack of response to some of Mr Ts correspondence about 
his complaint. It credited £500 to Mr Ts account for the things it got wrong.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and, in short, made the following findings:
The information Santander provided about the dilution levy being zero for the sale of 
shares in April 2017 is correct. Santander has explained it is zero because the sale 
was during an ISA-wrap time period where it doesnt apply any charges to sales of 
shares.
The information Santander provided in November 2018 indicating a dilution levy was 
charged was in relation to the investment within his ISA and it was his OEIC he had 
sold in April 2017. His understanding is that charges associated with investments 
within an ISA cant be offset against tax due.
The delay in providing details of all charges for sales and purchases within his 
investment didnt cause any financial loss as Mr T was able to submit his tax return 
on time.
Santander has said it didnt get Mr Ts letter of 6 December 2018 but did get his 
chaser in January 2019 at which point it was aware he was awaiting some 
information and shouldve contacted him but didnt.
He has now been given the information Mr T requested and this answers the concern 
outlined in his letter.
The £500 Santander has offered for the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr T 
as a result of its failings is sufficient compensation.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. In summary he made the following points:Whilst the initial enquiry was about dilution levy the ongoing dialogue over the 
following six months disintegrated into farce.
If Santander had provided the correct information in response to his telephone 
enquiry on 12 September 2018 he couldve submitted his tax return well before the 
deadline.
He was paying a large fee for a service he didnt get.
Santanders letter of 20 September 2018 refers to closure of the OEIC and the 
account number referenced is to the OEIC element of the portfolio.
He made clear what information he required in his telephone conversation with 
Santander on 12 September 2018 and his request had nothing to do with ISA 
wrapping.
His request was for details of the aggregated value of dilution levy for the whole 
active period of his portfolio.
Shares were constantly being traded within the OEIC generating brokerage charges 
that could be offset against Capital Gains Tax (CGT) liability.
He wanted a full transaction history as he made clear and so the information he was 
provided in the letter of 20 September 2018 cant be considered correct, contrary to 
what the investigator has said.
Whilst the investigator asserts that the letter he received on 16 November 2018 only 
related to the ISA, the letter provided the only evidence that the dilution levy wasnt 
zero. This allowed him to ask the relevant questions of Santander and discover that 
the dilution levy was in excess of £15,600 and not zero.
The investigator saying it took some time for Santander to provide information 
trivialises the inconvenience, time wasted and stress caused to him.
The time spent in dealing with Santander is time he couldve used to generate 
income.
If he had not pursued Santander his CGT wouldve been £3,147 higher and it is 
unfair that the investigator has not referred to the time he had to spend in resolving 
issues.
He emailed Santander on 6 December 2018 about the anomaly in respect of the 
portfolio management fee and then chased this up by letter dated 9 January 2019 
which was acknowledged by Santander the same day. He chased again by letter 
dated 7 March 2019. It took 15 months for Santander to provide the information 
requested in his letter of 6 December 2019.
The investigator made no mention of the inaccuracies in the analyses of various 
Santander complaints handlers which caused him to doubt his own understanding 
and reissue his tax return and pay an additional £3,147 in tax.
The investigator has not considered the facts in reaching his opinion  which is 
biased in favour of Santander.
He should be reimbursed for the charges associated with the poor quality of service 
and properly compensated for the prolonged inconvenience time and stress caused 
in resolving the mess created by Santander.
Why did Santander issue a dilution levy figures for an ISA when we all know that 
ISAs are exempt from CGT.
He would like the investigator to confirm that Santander did provide the wrong figures 
for dilution levy in its letter of 20 September 2018.
The investigator didnt comment on the loss of his letter by Santander and he would 
like the investigator to comment on the potential breach of data protection rights.
He wants a full refund of the premium investment portfolio charges.
The investigator responded to Mr T with regard to some of the points he had made. He said 
that he had considered all Mr Ts complaint points but had concentrated on the main issue 
about the information requested for the tax return He said he had considered the points 
made about inaccuracies in responses from complaint handlers and thought the overall offer 
from Santander took account of this. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Santander didnt provide the service that it shouldve done. It has 
accepted as much in its final response letter of 11 April 2019 and subsequent review letter of 
13 July 2019. What I am considering is what redress should be paid by Santander for what it 
got wrong.
I set out below the main issues based on the information I have been provided with by the 
parties. 
Mr T telephoned Santander on 12 September 2020 following receipt by him of the CGT 
report sent in August 2018 showing the chargeable gains over the tax year ending April 
2018.
The various holdings in the report were all identified as Pool holdings. A note in the report 
states that this referred to Section 104 Holding pooling rule and referred Mr T to HMRC for 
further information.
Mr T telephoned Santander after checking with HMRC about the pooling rule. He explained 
to the consultant he spoke to on 12 September 2018 what information he needed. In short 
this was; the date his shares were sold; how much they were sold for; how much was paid in 
costs when the shares were sold; how much he paid for the shares; and how much he paid 
in costs when he purchased the shares.
I note that the CGT report included questions and answers one of which was are there 
allowable costs on my Premium investments portfolio? the answer provided is:
Yes. We have deducted the dilution levy from our calculations both for the acquisition and 
redemption of funds.
So the overall gain shown in the CGT certificate appears to have already deducted the 
dilution levy  the charges for buying and selling shares. But regardless of this Mr T made 
clear what information he wanted to complete his tax return and the consultant he spoke to 
said that a full transaction history is what is normally provided when a customer is dealing 
with CGT.
Santander wrote to Mr T on 20 September 2018 showing the sale price of shares sold on 18 
April 2017 with the number of units sold and overall value. The letter showed a dilution levy 
of zero for all the shares. 
Mr T has referred to the information in the letter as being wrong, because it shows the 
dilution levy as zero for all shares. But the letter only refers to the sale of shares on 18 April 
2017 not any other share movements. And from the information I have seen all the 
transactions in April 2018 took place within what Santander has called the ISA wrapping 
season - a period of around three weeks agreed with fund managers when no charges will 
be made. 
So I think the information in the letter is likely to be correct as far as it goes, but it didnt 
provide all the information Mr T had asked for on 12 September 2018. He pointed this out 
when he telephoned Santander some six weeks later on 15 November 2018. He also 
emailed a letter the same day about this and referred to having been promised a full 
transaction history in the telephone conversation on 12 September 2020. The consultant did say that this is what is normally provided when a customer wanted to 
work out CGT when he spoke to Mr T on 12 September 2018. So I cant see why it wasnt 
provided in September 2018 - given Mr T said he wanted the information for CGT purposes, 
and Santander later provided this.
Santander provided a transaction history by letter dated 19 November 2018, but this didnt 
include information about the dilution levy, so again didnt provide all the information Mr T 
had asked for. He telephoned Santander on receipt of this letter asking for the missing 
information to be provided. 
Mr T chased this up by email on 4 December 2018 setting out the timeline to date and 
explaining his dissatisfaction with the delays in providing information. Mr T received some 
correspondence from Santander that wasnt related to the missing information he wanted 
and he emailed about not having requested this.
Santander did finally provide a full transaction history, including the dilution levy, by letter 
dated 13 December 2018 which Mr T received on 17 December 2018  so about a month 
after he first chased this up. This provided the information he needed for his tax return, but 
he telephoned and emailed Santander on 20 December 2018 asking for clarification as to 
what dilution levy referred to and whether any of the transactions contravened the bed and 
breakfast rule  relating to where shares are sold and then repurchased within 30 days.
He chased for a response to this query on 9 January 2019 and Santander wrote to him by 
letter dated 14 January 2018 confirming that dilution levy referred to charges for buying and 
selling shares and that there had been no contravention of the 30-day rule.
The delay in is will no doubt have been very frustrating for him and caused him distress and 
inconvenience  particularly as the deadline for providing his tax return approached. 
In addition to the issue Mr T raised about being provided with information for his tax return 
he also didnt get a response to a query he raised with Santander with regard to information 
he had been given about the portfolio management fee he had been paying.
He first raised this with Santander on 6 December 2018 and chased for an answer on 9 
January 2019, 7 March 2019 and finally 20 March 2019 - beyond which I have not seen any 
reference to this issue before Mr T referred his complaint to us. 
The investigator set out the explanation Santander gave him as to the anomaly Mr T had 
pointed out which showed he had not suffered any detriment. But I think Mr T was caused 
some distress and inconvenience as a result of having been provided with unclear 
information and having to chase up a response to his query about this.
Mr T has also raised an issue about hand delivering a letter in relation to his complaint to 
Santander addressed to the head of private banking which was then lost in Santanders 
internal mail system. Mr T has referred to this as a breach of his data protection rights. 
I acknowledge that the letter should not have been lost but Santander has been unable to 
locate this and suggests it is likely to have been destroyed. I think any distress and 
inconvenience caused by loss of the letter was limited.
I note Mr T says that when he at last received a copy of Santanders letter of 12 December 
2018 this caused him to redo his tax return and pay tax he then had to reclaim. I have 
considered this when considering redress. He also raised an issue about the content of that 
letter which Santander confirmed contained information that wasnt relevant.Turning to what redress Santander should pay Mr T, there is no question that its service in 
relation to the issues I have referred to was poor. In particular Mr T was caused unnecessary 
inconvenience and distress resulting from having to chase for the information he needed 
relating to his CGT between November 2018 and December 2018 - when he was provided 
with the full transaction history he needed. 
He also then had to chase for answers to his questions about the meaning of dilution levy 
and about the 30-day rule not being contravened, this taking a further three and half weeks 
to get an answer to. The other issues I have referred to I think are less significant although I 
think will have caused some small additional distress and inconvenience.
Having considered everything I agree with the investigator that the £500 already offered and 
paid by Santander is a reasonable amount for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I know Mr T doesnt agree and has referred to this not even covering his hourly rate. But the 
award isnt made by reference to his hourly rate. Although Mr T has said the time he spent 
dealing with Santander couldve been used to generate an income I have been provided with 
no evidence he has actually lost income as a result of the time taken getting information from 
Santander.
Mr T has also suggested he should be repaid the fees that he paid to Santander for the 
service it was providing to him. Whilst I understand why he has suggested this, the fees are 
for the overall service it was providing with regard to looking after his investments. 
Im not satisfied that he is entitled to repayment of fees because Santanders service fell 
short of what it shouldve been in respect of providing him with information for his tax return 
or the other issues I have referred to. I think the payment for distress and inconvenience is 
the more appropriate way to deal with what Santander got wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13July 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman