DRN-4018464
The complaint
Mr O complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund him for:
- a $200 cash machine withdrawal which he said he didnt make;
- a £38.75 payment which he said he didnt make; and
- a £170.18 payment for a meal, because he said the service at the restaurant was 
poor.
Mr O wants refunds, and compensation for inconvenience. 
What happened
On 2 November 2022, Mr O contacted Lloyds. He asked for a refund for: 
- a $200 cash machine withdrawal when he was abroad, which had debited his 
account as £191.81 on 26 October. Mr Os account showed two $200 withdrawals 
that day at the same machine: one at 7:31 and the other at 7:43. Mr O said hed 
made one of the transactions but not the other;
- a £38.75 withdrawal which debited his account on 24 October. Mr O said he didnt 
make this; and
- a £170.18 payment for a meal which debited his account on 21 October. Mr O said 
he wanted a refund because he said he was unhappy with the service and food at 
the restaurant.
Lloyds gave Mr O a temporary refund for the disputed cash withdrawal while it investigated. 
It sent a dispute to the cash machine merchant, which provided evidence that the cash 
machine had been working and that the cash had been dispensed. The merchant also sent 
evidence showing that the cash machine had balanced at the end of the day. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr O. It said its fraud team had looked into the payments disputed by Mr O, 
and wouldnt refund him. That was because the payments had been made using Mr Os 
genuine debit card and PIN. Lloyds said it couldnt understand how anyone else could have 
obtained his genuine card and PIN on several occasions, without Mr O noticing. In relation to 
the restaurant payment, Lloyds said that it tried to help where possible when a customer 
asked for a refund, by contacting the card scheme using a chargeback. But there were rules 
for this, and Lloyds didnt have the right to raise a claim for the restaurant payment. 
Mr O didnt agree. He told Lloyds that his card wasnt with him when the cash machine 
withdrawal was made. He didnt know how anyone had obtained his PIN number, and he 
wanted Lloyds to review CCTV of the cash machine abroad. Lloyds told Mr O that CCTV 
could only be requested by police as part of a police investigation. On 15 November, Lloyds 
told Mr O it would re-debit the temporary credit it had given him, and it did this in early 
December.
In Lloyds final response letter on 4 January 2023, it confirmed that the cash machine owner 
had said the money had been dispensed correctly, and it couldnt request CCTV for the cash 
machine abroad. It also said that the transactions which Mr O disputed had all been made 
using Mr Os genuine debit card and PIN. If the payments had been done by a third party, 
theyd have had to have taken and returned Mr Os card without his knowledge, as well as 
knowing Mr Os PIN. So it refused to refund him.
Mr O wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said Lloyds hadnt carried out a 
thorough investigation. He said that hed told Lloyds that re-debiting the temporary credit 
would put him into financial difficulties, but Lloyds hadnt taken that into account. He said 
hed asked for CCTV of the machine where the $200 withdrawal had taken place, but Lloyds 
hadnt provided this and had just based its outcome on what the machine owner had said. 
Mr O said he wanted the money returned, and compensation for the inconvenience Lloyds 
had caused him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. He said that the audit log showed that the 
cash machine transactions had been made with chip and PIN. Mr O had said his card wasnt 
lost or stolen, and he still had it. Hed said he never told anyone his PIN or let anyone use 
his card. The investigator pointed out that the disputed transactions had been made in 
places which Mr O visited, and CCTV wasnt available. The investigator also said that Mr O 
had paid £170.18 for a meal which had been provided, and it was fair for Lloyds not to have 
raised a chargeback because it would have had no reasonable chance of success.
Mr O wasnt satisfied. He said he felt the outcome wasnt fair and a lot of what hed said 
hadnt been taken into consideration. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and here, the relevant ones are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments 
under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to 
such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
The disputed $200 cash withdrawal
Ive looked at the technical evidence which the owner of the cash machine abroad provided 
to Lloyds. This shows that both cash withdrawals were authenticated using Mr Os genuine 
card, and correct PIN. The chip in the card was read by the machine, and identified as Mr 
Os genuine card. Chip technology is complex and sophisticated and there have been no 
known instances when the chip in a card has been successfully copied. The technical 
computer records also show that the money was correctly dispensed.
Mr O initially told Lloyds that hed attempted the first debit, but it hadnt worked, so hed tried 
again and the second one had dispensed. He later told this service that hed made the first 
withdrawal but not the second, and hadnt had his card. But it doesnt make a different which 
of the two withdrawals Mr O says he made. Two withdrawals at the same cash machine, 13 
minutes apart, were carried out using Mr Os genuine card. Mr O didnt report his card lost or 
stolen. So if any third party fraudster had carried out one of the withdrawals, theyd have had 
to steal Mr Os card, use it and then return it. And any such person would have had to have 
found out Mr Os PIN, again without his knowledge. There are 10,000 possible combinations 
of a four-digit PIN, so its most unlikely a fraudster could have guessed it correctly first time. Mr O has asked for CCTV of the cash machine withdrawals. CCTV is rarely kept for very 
long. I think its unlikely that it would still have been available for the 26 October withdrawals 
by the time Mr O disagreed with Lloyds outcome letter of 15 November and asked for 
CCTV. And Lloyds told Mr O that CCTV would need to be requested by the police as part of 
a police investigation, and theres no evidence that Mr O had  contacted the police abroad. 
But in any case, CCTV rarely shows what a customer hopes it will. The camera is unlikely to 
show both the person making the withdrawal, and the screen, and the card. And even if a 
withdrawal is made by a third party, its always possible an account holder has asked 
someone else to carry out the transaction on their behalf. So CCTV would be very unlikely to 
help with the outcome here. 
Mr O has argued that Lloyds shouldnt have re-debited the $200 (£191.81) because it 
caused him financial difficulties. Ive read the letter which Lloyds sent to Mr O on 15 
November with the outcome. This says that if Lloyds didnt hear from Mr O within the next 10 
working days, it would take back the payment it had made at the beginning of the 
investigation. The letter also said that it was here to help if at any time Mr O would like any 
support with his finances, and gave contact details. 
Mr O wrote back to say he wanted the outcome reviewed as he didnt have enough money in 
his account for it to be re-debited. But I find that Lloyds acted fairly. The money it had 
credited at the start of the dispute was only ever a temporary credit while Lloyds 
investigated, and wasnt Mr Os own money. When Lloyds investigation showed that both 
$200 withdrawals had been properly authenticated and dispensed, it concluded that it was 
likely to be Mr O who had authorised the withdrawals. I agree with that conclusion in all the 
circumstances of this case. And having come to that conclusion, Lloyds So it was entitled to 
take back the money. 
I find that Lloyds offered sufficient support by its offer of help. Ive seen nothing to show that 
Mr O had previously reported financial difficulties, and if his situation had changed, it was 
open to him to have taken up Lloyds offer of advice about managing his money.
The disputed £38.75 transaction and the disputed £170.18 restaurant meal payment
Ive looked at the computer evidence for these. Both the disputed £38.75 payment to a 
restaurant on 24 October and the disputed £170.18 payment to a different restaurant on 20 
October were authenticated by Mr Os genuine card using chip and PIN. So I find its more 
likely than not that Mr O authorised both. 
Mr Os complaint about the larger payment is that he wasnt happy with the service or food in 
the restaurant. But that doesnt mean Lloyds had to refund him. In certain circumstances, 
banks can issue a chargeback disputing a payment, but Mr Os statement that he hadnt 
been happy with the service or food, doesnt fall into the categories where a bank could raise 
a chargeback. And in any case, a bank raising a chargeback request doesnt guarantee a 
refund if the merchant defends the claim. I consider that this claim would have had no 
chance of success even if Lloyds could have raised it with the card scheme. So I find that 
Lloyds acted fairly, and doesnt have to refund Mr O.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman