DRN-3012804
The complaint
Mr W complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc has unfairly recorded negative information on his 
credit file relating to his loan account with it.
What happened
Mr W took a loan out with Sainsburys Bank in May 2020. The loan was for £17,000 to be 
repaid monthly over a period of 60 months. The monthly loan repayment amount was 
£351.52.
Mr W says he switched bank accounts and in November 2020, a payment to his loan was 
missed. The payment was first requested from Mr Ws bank account on 4 November 2020 
and returned as unpaid on 5 November. It was re-requested on 10 November and returned 
unpaid again on 11 November. 
Mr W said he only realised the payment had been missed a few days later when checking 
his loan accounts online. He also spoke with Sainsburys Bank on the phone when looking 
for a settlement figure for his other loan. He asked whether the payment had been missed 
during this call and it was confirmed it had been, with two attempts having been made to 
collect the amount.
It was explained that hed need to make the payment manually as it couldnt be taken on the 
phone. He was also told that his loan wasnt yet showing as in collections but this would 
usually happen after two payment attempts had been missed. It suggested Mr W make the 
payment as soon as possible to avoid this. The credit file would show a late payment but not 
a missed payment if this was completed. The details for the account and how to make the 
payment were provided. Mr W paid £350 on the same day, the 14 November 2020. 
The payment made was £1.52 short of the amount needed to meet the monthly repayment, 
as a result it was left with this as an arrear. Mr W has explained he has a condition which 
can lead to confusion and leave him to be disorientated when dealing with stress. He says it 
was this which meant he didnt realise he paid the wrong amount when making the manual 
payment.
Sainsburys Bank wrote to Mr W on 19 November 2020 giving him notice that there were 
arrears on the account with the balance of £1.52 needing to be paid. It didnt say that any 
action would be taken at this point as the amount was small and that it might be an 
oversight. It said it would monitor the account and might contact Mr W again in the future 
about this. On the same day though, a letter confirming he would be charged a £25 late 
payment fee was also sent. Mr W said these letters werent received.
It wasnt until Mr W logged into his online banking again at the start of December that he 
noticed a red marker on the account and a request for him to speak with Sainsburys Bank. 
He called them and made a payment of £5 to clear the outstanding arrears balance. The 
balance wasnt cleared until 4 December when the payment was applied. He said he later 
checked his credit file and believed a default had been applied for this amount. He didnt 
receive notice of this or the missed payment. He feels Sainsburys Bank has acted unfairly 
and in contravention to the relevant rules and regulations when its done this. He doesnt 
think it should have applied the negative information and says hes lost out as a result.
Sainsburys Bank said it didnt think it had done anything wrong with how it recorded the 
payment information on Mr Ws credit file. Although the outstanding balance was small, it 
noted this hadnt been paid and it didnt think it was right to remove this. It did accept it didnt 
respond to Mr Ws complaint as quickly as it could have done and offered £50 by way of an 
apology for this delay.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ws complaint and didnt think Sainsburys Bank needed to 
take any action. She said no default had been applied to Mr Ws credit file and this is why no 
notice was sent. It recorded a missed payment only and this was correct, with the balance 
not being paid when it was due. This left an arrear on the loan account which wasnt cleared 
in full until the following month.
Mr W disagreed. He didnt think it was fair that Sainsburys Bank didnt notify him of the 
missed payment amount when he spoke with its adviser on the phone. Had it told him the 
amount he would have likely paid the correct amount. He also didnt believe the correct 
notice of arrears had been sent. Overall, he felt the outcome gave the benefit of doubt to 
Sainsburys Bank and was unfair. He also questioned whether the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the Act) had been considered as this wasnt referenced.
Focus was given to the date of the missed payment and whether, specifically, Sainsburys 
Bank had failed to meet the requirements of s.86 and s.88 of the Act. 
Mr W feels that Sainsburys Bank failed to send him a notice of the arrears on his account in 
time. Because of this he feels, in conjunction with the Act, Sainsburys Bank is not able to 
enforce the agreement during the period of non-compliance. He believes this means it would 
be unable to apply a charge for the late payment or report the late payment to credit 
reference agencies. 
Mr W also thinks Sainsburys Bank acted unfairly by reporting the late payment when it was 
settled within the 30-day payment cycle for the account. And with the amount outstanding 
being so small, he feels it was unduly harsh to report this.  
The investigator explained why, she still believed Sainsburys Bank had acted fairly when 
considering the specific sections of the Act referred to by Mr W. 
Because Mr W did not agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mr W, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, I know this will be disappointing for Mr W, but Ill 
explain why. Mr W has questioned whether Sainsburys Bank acted fairly and provided him with the 
correct notice to comply with its obligations under the Act. And if the subsequent actions 
taken when it has recorded this late payment were fair and reasonable. 
I accept it is likely the payment was missed due to a mistake made by Mr W. I dont think 
there is anything to indicate that he didnt intend to pay the correct amount. But
the fact Mr W missed the agreed repayment on his account is not disputed. And he didnt 
make the full payment until the following month. 
The loan agreement confirms the payment for the loan is due each month consecutively 
for 60 months. And that a failure to make the agreed repayment on time will result in 
arrears charges and additional interest on the unpaid amounts. It also says that missed 
payments can have a negative impact on the customers credit score. I note Mr W is 
concerned there could be unfair contract terms or an unfairness in the relationship 
between himself and Sainsburys Bank. But these are standard terms which are common 
in credit agreements and I dont think there is anything that would be considered unfair 
within this. 
On 19 November Sainsburys Bank sent Mr W a notice of the arrears. Hes said this 
wasnt received and this means Sainsburys Bank has failed to meet its obligations under 
the Act. I dont agree it has failed to meet its obligations under the Act when this wasnt 
received. It is not required to confirm receipt of the notices it sends; this wouldnt be a fair 
expectation. But it is fair to expect that it sends any written notice to the correct address 
 which Im satisfied it has done here. 
Mr W has also said he doesnt think the notice was sent within the right timeframe  
s.86B of the Act explains this should be sent within 14 days of the point when a payment 
has been missed. Mr Ws agreement started on the fourth of the month and payments 
are collected by Sainsburys Bank each month on or around this date, with an allowance 
made within the contract for times when the payment falls on a non-working day. So, the 
due date could change depending on the day. But I dont think this has any impact on the 
actions taken by Sainsburys Bank. I say this because, regardless of when the notice 
letter was sent, Mr W had been told previously his payment had been missed. It was also 
confirmed that he was active in his online account, so he had access to information 
about the loan and its status.
The notice of arrears letter and whether this was issued late or not makes no material 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. Ultimately, the payment on 14 November 
was a late payment. Sainsburys Bank has recorded a late payment marker on Mr Ws 
credit file as a result of the total balance on the account not having been paid on time. 
This is a true reflection of how the account was managed. So, regardless of whether a 
notice of the arrears was sent within 14 days of the payment first being missed, 
Sainsburys hasnt acted unfairly when it has recorded the payment as late. 
I understand the strength of feeling that Mr W has about the amount of the outstanding 
balance being minimal and that it feels unduly harsh to record this. But the amount isnt 
what dictates what is recorded. The simple fact is the account had an arrear outstanding 
and the payment was late. This is what has been recorded on Mr Ws credit file to show 
how the account has been managed.  Sainsburys Bank has let Mr W know how he can apply for a notice of correction if he 
feels this is having a significant detrimental impact on his ability to obtain credit. I note 
hes not provided anything to demonstrate that this is the case. But even if it was, 
Sainsburys Bank hasnt done anything wrong by applying the late payment marker.  So 
although I understand the frustration of Mr W at having received this late payment 
marker when only a small amount was outstanding, it doesnt change the fact that I dont 
think Sainsburys needs to do anything else on this complaint.
Sainsburys Bank failed to respond to Mr Ws concerns as quickly as it could have done 
and its apologised for this and paid £50 for the distress and inconvenience. I think this is 
fair and see no reason to ask Sainsburys Bank to increase this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Sainsburys 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman