DRN-1137895
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly refused his request for an overdraft.
What happened
Mr S has a long-standing account with HSBC. In June 2019 he asked HSBC for an overdraft 
of £100, which it refused to provide. It said Mr S wasnt eligible for an overdraft for a 12 
month period and that was because hed previously been in financial difficulty. Mr S said he 
wanted the money to visit his son and thought HSBCs refusal was unfair. HSBC offered 
Mr S £40 for the inconvenience this had caused but Mr S said he didnt want that and would 
complain further. 
Our investigator thought HSBC had explained why it had declined Mr Ss request for an 
overdraft and didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said he 
feels as though HSBC should allow overdrafts to those in financial difficulty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr S but, having done so, I find that I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
HSBC has to consider every application for credit on its own merits in accordance with its 
lending criteria. HSBC wont extend credit if its unlikely a customer will be able to repay the 
debt. Ive seen evidence that HSBC considered Mr Ss application appropriately and that it 
was refused because of the marker on his account, which had been placed there because of 
previous financial difficulties. This is a business decision HSBC is entitled to make.
HSBC doesnt offer customers a guaranteed overdraft and it has a policy in place that says 
when it can and cant offer this facility. In this case, HSBC made its decision in line with this 
policy, and I havent seen anything to suggest this policy was applied unfairly. Its also given 
reasons for its decision. As such, I think HSBC has acted fairly and reasonably.
I can see that HSBC offered Mr S £40 for the inconvenience caused by its refusal to provide 
the £100 overdraft. Mr S said he didnt want the amount offered and he confirmed that when 
he spoke to our investigator. As such, I dont think HSBC needs to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2019.Richard Walker
Ombudsman