DRN-3267246
The complaint
Miss B says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Credit Card, has treated her 
unfairly in relation to transactions on her credit card which paid for a training course.
What happened
In early 2020 Miss B used her Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco from now on) credit card 
to pay a number of instalments towards the cost of a training course for her partner (Mr C) to 
go on. She paid a total of £3200.
By March 2021 Mr C and Miss B were dissatisfied with the quality of the course he was on. 
This included the training itself, the course materials, and the opportunities to progress. So 
they complained to the training course provider, who didnt agree with their complaint and 
didnt make any refund.
So she took her dispute to Tesco in May 2021 to see if it could help. Tesco says it 
considered Chargeback and the Consumer Credit Act and having done so it didnt think it 
needed to refund the amounts paid on her credit card. So Miss B brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our Investigator felt Tesco had treated Miss B fairly. And Miss B remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B used her Tesco credit card to pay for the training course. This means Tesco can 
have certain responsibilities to Miss B which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) if certain criteria within the Act are met. There 
is no need for me to go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary Section 75 
has the effect of allowing Miss B to hold Tesco liable for breaches of contract by the training 
course provider, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement made. Again 
without going into a large amount of detail, a breach of contract occurs when one party to a 
contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when 
something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment.
Tesco is also a member of a card network which provides card services. And this network 
has rules (the Card Scheme) which includes giving Tesco an avenue for card transactions to 
be disputed, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Tesco and whether it did 
what it should have, and whether it treated Miss B fairly. This decision isnt about the training 
course provider which isnt a party to this decision as it isnt within this services remit in this 
complaint. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss B 
does here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. 
Miss B doesnt dispute that she used her Tesco credit card here. Nor does she dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transactions themselves. So I dont think Tesco 
couldve challenged the payments on the basis Miss B didnt properly authorise the 
transactions, given what Ive just set out.
Tesco is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through (or continue with) the chargeback process or not. If it 
does go through the process, then it must do so properly. But ultimately the Card Scheme 
has the final say on this process. So Tesco isnt solely responsible for the decision whether 
to refund or not, when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not 
proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Tesco originally explained in writing to Miss B that it couldnt take the Chargeback process 
further because the only Chargeback code applicable to her situation was that of service not 
as described. And when it considered the evidence available and what Miss B had said, it 
didnt think it was clear that the service wasnt as described. And Tesco noted that this was a 
subjective area and that the issues raised werent in direct contrast to what had been agreed 
in the paperwork. So it didnt take the Chargeback further, in essence because it believed it 
didnt have a reasonable prospect of success.
Our investigator considered the matter and observed that they thought that Chargeback was 
out of time. Miss B notes that this seemed unfair as she was liaising with the training course 
provider at the time and that seemed a fairer course of action than taking it to Tesco. And I 
can certainly see Miss Bs logic here and her position has merit. And Im not necessarily 
persuaded by the argument that the Chargeback was out of time. But the key issue is, has 
she lost out because of Tescos position?
Ultimately Tesco considered the Chargeback and clearly considered the applicable 
Chargeback reason. Ive considered what Miss B said to Tesco at the time, and since to this 
service, about the training course provided. And I can see the training course provider didnt 
agree with Miss B. And clearly Mr C used the course for a significant period of time. Taking 
all of this into consideration and particularly the difficulties around showing the training 
course wasnt as described, Im not persuaded Tescos position was unfair or unreasonable 
in considering that the Chargeback didnt have a reasonable prospect of success and hence 
it didnt take it further. So I dont think Miss B has lost out here because of Tescos position 
with regard to Chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach of contract or misrepresentation here there are 
some requirements set out in the Act which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits, and having considered that, I think 
on balance that Miss Bs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the Act is for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Miss B) should have a 
contractual relationship with whoever supplied the goods or Services (the Supplier-the 
training course provider here) as well as with the credit provider (the Creditor-Tesco). And 
this is the crux of this complaint. Miss B says that the DCS relationship is in place so Tesco 
can be held liable for any breach of contract by the training course provider.
The training course provider was due to supply Mr C with the training course, and the 
documentation makes clear that he was the contracting party for the course and the person 
who was going on the course to gain the knowledge and skills the course was due to 
provide. But Miss B is the person who paid for it. So there are four parties here, the debtor 
(Miss B), the creditor (Tesco) the supplier (the training course provider) and Mr C-the 
contracting party. Miss B isnt the contracting party or the direct beneficiary of the training 
course-that was Mr C.
Tesco has raised this issue from the outset noting it cannot be held liable under S75 of the 
Act where the requisite test under the Act (that is the DCS test) isnt met. And it is correct in 
this. And consequently whether or not the training course provider misrepresented the 
contract or breached the contract doesnt make a difference as Tesco cannot be responsible 
in any event under S75. Because DCS is not made out here.
Miss B makes a number of arguments about whether or not this is fair, and she seeks clarity 
on when credit card providers are and are not liable under the Act. However it should be 
remembered that the only reason Tesco is potentially liable is due to this legislation Ive 
described. It is clear Miss Bs (and Mr C) primary complaint is about the training course 
provided by the training course provider. If the legislation wasnt in place then Tesco 
wouldnt have anywhere near the potential liability for the Training course provider as it does 
(it would still have obligations around Chargeback as Ive described). So it is key that if I am 
to hold Tesco liable the tests required under the Act must be met including DCS. And Im 
satisfied DCS isnt made out here.
And in answer to Miss Bs question regarding when S75 is applicable there is no easy 
answer to that. This is because the use of credit for purchases has a huge amount of variety 
and complexity and the application of legislation and case law can be complex also. 
However it is the case that having S75 protection (through the use of credit to make 
purchases) does often provide a significant and often substantial amount of protection 
compared to other payment methods, some of which have a lot less protection for the 
consumer.
So all in all having considered the matter Im not persuaded Tesco has treated Miss B 
unfairly. Im not persuaded that the required relationship is made out. I dont think the DCS 
relationship has been shown to be in place for the provision of the training course. And I 
dont think Tescos stance regarding Chargeback is unfair. So I dont think Tesco has done 
anything wrong here which needs remedy.
I can well appreciate Miss Bs disappointment at what has happened and indeed at my 
decision. However Tesco has treated her fairly here and hence her complaint is 
unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Credit Card. It has nothing further to do in respect of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman