DRN-4347297
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc incorrectly and unfairly recorded a Cifas fraud marker 
against him.
What happened
In 2022, Mr A said he found out that Santander had placed a fraud marker with Cifas against 
him. He considers it has been recorded in error and he wants it removed. Mr A said hes 
been unable to get a job in the finance sector because of the Cifas marker.
Santander said it had received a mortgage application from Mr A in November 2019, but it 
had some concerns about some of the information recorded and submitted on the 
application. It declined the application and placed a Cifas marker against Mr A. It said  it 
reviewed what it did and was satisfied with the action it had taken.
I issued a provisional decision saying that  subject to any further submissions  I did not 
propose to uphold the complaint. My provisional findings were, which form part of this 
decision, were: 
Recording a Cifas marker against someone is a serious step by a financial business. A
marker should only be recorded if there are reasonable grounds to believe a fraud or
financial crime has been committed or attempted and the evidence must be clear, relevant
and rigorous.
The standard is not, however, that fraud has been proved. Rather, it is that there is
reasonable suspicion that fraud has been committed or attempted. In considering this
complaint, I am deciding whether it was fair for Santander to decide the threshold to record a
Cifas marker has been met.
Santander recorded a category 4 Cifas marker against Mr A  that relates to applications
with material falsehoods or false supporting documentation where the name given has not
been identified as false. Santander is saying that Mr A applied for a mortgage and that it was
unable to confirm the information he gave about his employment and income.
I accept that Santander had good reasons for considering the employment details and
income on the application contained material falsehoods and were supported by false
documentation.
That leaves whether it was reasonable for Santander to record the Cifas marker against Mr
A. It could only do that if it had reasonable grounds to believe that Mr A submitted or
colluded in submitting the application and gave false information about his employment 
rather than Mr A being the innocent victim of identity fraud as he claims.
The application includes Mr As correct name, date of birth, address and national insurance
number. A copy of Mr As driving licence was provided as proof of identity. The application
also said that Mr A was employed in two jobs. One was the job that Santander legitimately
had concerns about  the other was the job that Mr A was actually employed in at the time in
question. Santander has provided evidence that it sent correspondence to Mr As address.
The property being purchased was on the same street where Mr A lived. 
Mr A said that he lost his wallet in or around 2018 and that contained his driving licence. He
has provided evidence that he got a replacement in May 2020. He initially told us that he
needed the licence to renew his car insurance. We asked Mr A for evidence of that and he
gave us a copy of an insurance policy in his mothers name that pre-dated the date on Mr
As new licence. He said that this was when he became aware that he no longer had his
driving licence and that his mother had to arrange the policy while he obtained a new
licence.
Mr A said he could not understand how someone could have known his national insurance
number. He said that hed applied for a number of jobs and it was included in the application
 and it could have been taken from one of those applications.
For me to be able to uphold this complaint, there would need to be a plausible explanation
how a third party was able to obtain all of Mr As personal information, a copy of his driving
licence and be able to intercept post to his home address  or evidence to support that Mr A
was not involved in the application.
I can see how someone else could have had Mr As driving licence if he lost his wallet. That
would also explain how some (but not all) of Mr As personal information was obtained. But it
is not clear why they would wait until late 2019 to pursue an application, bearing in mind Mr
A told us he lost his wallet containing his driving licence in around 2018. That person would
then need to have found out Mr As national insurance number, where he worked (bearing in
mind he did not start his genuine employment until October 2019) and have been confident
they could intercept his post (as the mortgage paperwork was all sent to Mr As address).
That seems to me to be an unlikely set of circumstances and Mr A has not put forward any
reasonable explanation how that could have happened  or any persuasive evidence to
support his account.
I dont consider that Mr As age or circumstances at the time in question would necessarily
prevent a mortgage lender considering or approving a mortgage application from him. So it
doesnt follow that Santander was wrong to consider the application.
Based on the evidence we have, I consider it was reasonable for Santander to find that it
was Mr A who made or was involved in the application. It follows, that it was reasonable for it
to record the Cifas warning against Mr A.
Neither Mr A or Santander responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached in my provisional decision. On the evidence and circumstances it was 
reasonable for Santander to consider that the threshold to record a Cifas marker against Mr 
A had been met.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman