DRN-2096751
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) rejected a claim he
made under his buildings insurance policy due to storm damage. He also complained about
the surveyor RSA instructed to inspect the damage.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr M made a claim to his insurer, RSA. He said his roof had been damaged
by heavy rain and there was also internal damage due to ingress of water.
RSA instructed a Surveyor to inspect the damage. Mr W was unhappy with things the
Surveyor said to him and his behaviour. He was also unhappy with the Surveyors opinion
that the damage to his roof wasnt caused by a storm. The surveyor reported that the roof
damage and the internal damage was as a result of gradual deterioration.
RSA upheld Mr Ms complaint as to the conduct of the Surveyor and paid Mr M £300
compensation. Mr M has accepted this. RSA said the decision to reject Mr Ms claim was
correct. It said there were no storm conditions on the day of the event. But Mr M didnt
agree.
Our investigator considered the same three questions RSA considered in line with our
approach for storm damage claims. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be
covered.
RSA doesnt define storm conditions in their policy. The investigator said he applied our
approach and thought storm conditions had occurred due to heavy rainfall. There were no
strong winds  but he considered the rainfall over 24 hours to meet storm conditions.
However, the investigator thought Mr M had prejudiced his position by having temporary
repairs carried out before the Surveyor inspected the damage. He thought there werent any
photos of the roof before repair. He thought there wasnt enough to say storm conditions had
caused the damage to the roof. But he thought the internal damage has most likely been
caused by significant rainfall.
So he concluded that he thought storm damage had been the main cause of damage to the
internal walls and ceiling of Mr Ms home.
He recommended RSA consider Mr Ms claim for internal damage and pay him £100
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In response, Mr M provided photos of his roof before the temporary repairs were carried out.
RSA didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary it said there was a heavy build up
of moss in the area of the slipped tile on Mr Ms roof before repair. If the rain was as intense
as to constitute storm conditions, some of the moss would have washed away too. Images of
the internal wall show mould which suggests a gradual deterioration and not caused by a
one off event. Its referred to court cases which it says supports its view that heavy or
persistent rain doesnt amount to storm conditions.
RSA has referred to ABI and Met Office guidance for rainfall to constitute storm conditions.
These ranged between 25mm per hour and 32 mm per hour. RSA said the rain may have
been heavy at one stage, but wasnt prolonged, persistent or sufficient in intensity. It says a
structure that has been well maintained should withstand such rainfall.
RSA asked the Surveyor for further clarification and based on their opinion, RSA is satisfied
its decision to reject Mr Ms claim is correct.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 July 2020. I agreed that there had been storm conditions 
due to heavy rainfall. But I didnt think the damage claimed for was typical of storm damage 
 or that the storm was the main cause of the damage. I thought photos provided by both the 
Surveyor and Mr M showed there was damage due to wear and tear. And photos of the 
internal wall and ceiling showed signs of mould which builds up over time. So I didnt intend 
to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree. He says there was no mould in the property  the only mould was where 
the water leaked during the storm. They had decorated the year before and had the ceiling 
plastered. 
He said the Surveyors report was factually incorrect. He said there was never any damage 
or missing slate to the chimney and it isnt even the area of damage which caused the leak. 
Mr M feels I havent considered the actions of the Surveyor which he accepted 
compensation for. He said the Surveyor was unprofessional and so his opinion shouldnt be 
relied upon. 
RSA acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but hasnt made any comments. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M will be very disappointed. But my final decision remains along the same lines as 
my final decision and Ill explain why.
In line with our approach, Ive considered the three questions we ask to determine if Mr Ms
claim meets the threshold for storm damage.
Did storm conditions occur on or around the date of the event?
Where an insurer doesnt provide a definition, we usually think heavy winds or heavy and
intense rainfall would define storm conditions. According to a local weather report, strongwind conditions werent recorded that day.
There are occasions where rain, hail or snowfall by itself can constitute storm without strong
winds but they are rare. For rain, hail or snowfall to be storm, it has to be of an exceptional
or unusual intensity.
I think the rainfall was heavy enough to be a storm at the time of the event.
Is the damage claimed for typical of storm damage?
The photos provided by the Surveyor show clearly that there was a missing tile and the 
surrounding area showed considerable moss build up along with photos of debris that had 
fallen from the roof. Close up photos provided by Mr M show the roof was in a deteriorating 
condition and there was considerable moss growth in the area of damage. 
The surveyor made the following additional comments:
The point of claim is the main roof, specifically at the left side of the chimney on the front
elevation. A single tile is missing from here and the surveyor cannot determine how storm
weather conditions could have been accountable for this damage, given the location of the
tile. The tile was supported by the lead flashing and no other surrounding tiles have been
affected. This is uncharacteristic for storm rain damage, which rarely lifts a single tile;
especially one shielded by the chimney itself and the flashing. The damage appears to be
more consistent with natural deterioration and a breakdown of materials. To support this
notion, the surveyor notes that there is substantial growth of algae and moss in this area and
this may have overwhelmed the tile, exacerbating its deterioration. The build-up of
vegetation and debris will have also hindered this areas ability to effectively disperse
of rainwater. In light of this, the surveyor suspects that the damage is not a consequence of
storm weather conditions but is a natural breakdown of materials.
I understand Mr M doesnt agree with the Surveyors opinion. But based on everything Ive 
seen, I think the answer is no to the second question. I dont think the damage claimed for 
is typical of storm damage.
Is the storm the main cause of the damage?
Im satisfied that heavy rain highlighted an existing problem, in light of the Surveyors
findings and photos provided by Mr M and the Surveyor.
So as the answer isnt yes to all three questions, I think RSAs decision to reject Mr Ms
claim for repairs to his roof for storm damage was reached reasonably. I think the damage
was caused as a result of wear and tear.
Like most  if not all home and buildings insurance policies, RSA excludes cover for wear
and tear.
Photos of Mr Ms internal wall show wallpaper had peeled off and revealed evidence of
mould. Mr M says there was no mould before or since. But given the fact Mr M said he 
decorated the room a year before and had the ceiling plastered, I wouldnt expect to see 
signs of mould for a recent one off event. As I said in my provisional decision, mould builds 
up over a period of time. So I dont think its fair to conclude that damage caused by the rain 
as a one off event led to the internal damage. RSA says Mr M isnt covered under the policy for ingress of water. Mr M doesnt have 
accidental damage cover under his contents insurance policy. So he isnt covered for a claim 
for internal damage in these circumstances.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling about the Surveyors actions on the day of the visit. I 
cant form a conclusion as to what was discussed between the Surveyor and Mr M, but as 
RSA upheld Mr Ms complaint and paid compensation of £300, I think this was fair and 
reasonable. 
So based on everything Ive seen, I think RSAs decision to reject Mr Ms claim for storm 
damage was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman