DRN-1835659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the service provided by Nationwide Building Society when 
the fixed rate on their mortgage was coming to an end.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage with Nationwide. It had a fixed rate of interest that was due to 
end on 31 October 2019. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs D on 3 October 2019 to remind them of this and that, if no 
new deal was put in place, their mortgage would revert to Nationwides standard variable 
interest rate (referred to as its Standard Mortgage Rate or SMR). The letter set out new 
rates that Mr and Mrs D could apply for through Nationwide. And it explained that to 
guarantee any new rate was in place for 1 November 2019, any application would need to 
be completed by 26 October 2019.
Mr and Mrs D applied for a new rate after 26 October 2019. As a result, their mortgage 
reverted to Nationwides SMR for one month with their new chosen rate taking effect from 
December 2019.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Nationwide that it had not agreed to start their new interest rate 
from 1 November 2019. They said it shouldve been more flexible as they didnt feel theyd 
been given enough time to consider their options.
Nationwide said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Unhappy with this response Mr 
and Mrs D referred their complaint to our service. They explained they had been away from 
home when Nationwide sent the reminder letter and due to other commitments hadnt been 
able to apply for a new rate sooner. They felt Nationwide shouldve been more flexible, 
mentioning they were loyal longstanding customers. Mr and Mrs D were also unhappy that 
Nationwide had not contacted them to discuss their concerns further before responding to 
their complaint.
An investigator looked at whatd happened but didnt think Nationwide had done anything 
wrong as it had given Mr and Mrs D notice that the interest rate deal on their mortgage was 
expiring and informed them when an application needed to be completed by. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the investigators opinion. As a result, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a welcome letter Nationwide sent to Mr and Mrs D in October 2017, when they 
selected their previous interest rate deal. This letter confirmed that the fixed interest rate 
expired on 31 October 2019. Ive also seen annual mortgage statements Nationwide sent to 
Mr and Mrs D in 2018 and 2019. Both of these also confirm the fixed rate was due to expire 
on 31 October 2019. And Ive seen a copy of the reminder letter Nationwide sent to Mr and 
Mrs D in October 2019, again confirming when the interest rate deal on their mortgage was 
due to expire. Based on all of this, I think Nationwide has provided Mr and Mrs D with clear 
and consistent information about when their mortgage interest rate deal would expire. So I 
think they wouldve been aware they needed a new interest rate deal to be in place after 31 
October 2019 to avoid reverting to Nationwides SMR.
The letter Nationwide sent Mr and Mrs D on 3 October 2019 explained that, for a new rate 
taken with it to take effect from 1 November 2019, immediately on expiry of the old interest 
rate deal, the application would need to be completed by 26 October 2019. So again, I think 
Nationwide has provided Mr and Mrs D with clear information. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt apply for a new interest rate deal until after 26 October 2019. So I dont 
think Nationwide was wrong to initially place the account on its SMR, in line with the terms of 
the original mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D have explained they were unable to act on that letter straight away. But from 
what has been said I dont think this wasnt due to anything Nationwide did wrong. Theyve 
also said they think Nationwide shouldve given more notice, so they had more time to 
consider their options. I think Nationwide acted reasonably by writing to them, to remind 
them their interest rate was expiring, when it did. I dont think it was required to do more. And 
as Ive said, I think it has provided clear and consistent information to Mr and Mrs D on a 
number of occasions about when the fixed interest rate was expiring.
Mr and Mrs D have said they think Nationwide shouldve been more flexible. But I dont think 
Nationwide has done anything wrong. So, I dont think it was required to treat Mr and Mrs D 
any differently or deviate from its usual process  particularly considering it gave Mr and Mrs 
D clear information about what needed to be done and by when. 
Mr and Mrs D have mentioned they are unhappy that Nationwide didnt discuss this with 
them further before responding to their complaint. But I dont think Nationwide was required 
to revisit its earlier decision. In light of this it decided it didnt need any more information 
before responding to their concerns  which I think is reasonable.
So taking everything into account I dont think Nationwide has made an error in its handling 
of this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020. 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman