DRN-4106051
The complaint
Mr J complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc (trading as Zenith Insurance) handled his 
motor insurance claim.
Zenith is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Zenith has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Zenith includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In March 2022, Mr Js car was damaged in an accident involving another driver. Mr Js 
broker appointed an Accident Management Company (AMC) to handle Mr Js claim against 
the third party. The AMC notified Zenith of the incident and said it was for information 
purposes only.
 
The third- party drivers insurer disputed liability for the accident, so Zenith took responsibility 
for dealing with the liability dispute.
In July 2022, Mr J complained to Zenith about poor communication and the length of time it 
was taking to resolve his claim. He said he wanted compensation for loss of earnings 
because he couldnt work due to not having a car. A few days later, Zenith made Mr J a 
settlement offer for his vehicle, which it said had been deemed beyond economical repair. 
Zenith responded to Mr Js complaint in October 2022. It said it had taken ownership of his 
claim on 7 July, so delays prior to that date werent Zeniths responsibility. It had sent as 
settlement offer to Mr J on 19 July and couldnt see that hed responded to it yet. 
Zenith said it wasnt responsible for providing Mr J with a hire car. This would have been at 
the AMCs discretion whilst it was dealing with the claim. Mr J wasnt entitled to a courtesy 
car under the terms of the policy. It said it wouldnt be covering Mr Js loss of earnings as 
these were considered an uninsured loss and it didnt believe it had caused any delays.
Zenith said it had responded to Mr Js emails within its standard timeframe. However, it 
acknowledged it should have done more to update him with the progress of his complaint. It 
apologised for sending Mr J an email with incorrect information which caused some 
confusion, and for difficulties Mr J had in getting through to it on the phone.
Zenith said there was no new information to update him on regarding liability, which was still 
being disputed by the third-party insurers.
Zenith said it had reviewed the settlement it had offered and increased it by £72. It said it 
would arrange for the settlement cheque to be sent and would also send a cheque of £150 
for distress and inconvenience.
A couple of weeks later, it came to light that Zenith had sent the cheques to Mr Js previous 
address in error. So, Zenith arranged for the settlement to be sent to Mr Js bank account. 
Mr J raised another complaint, which Zenith responded to in January 2023. It apologised for 
not updating Mr Js contact address, and for a delay in sending him the compensation it had 
awarded for his previous complaint. It said it would send another £75 cheque as an apology 
for poor service.
Mr J remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Zenith was responsible for the 
length of time it took for it to start working on the claim. And he thought Zenith had dealt with 
it pretty quickly once it had started working on it. The investigator agreed Zeniths 
communication with Mr J could have been better, but he thought the £225 compensation it 
had paid him was fair and reasonable. 
Mr J disagreed with our investigators outcome. He felt that his ongoing claim should have 
been dealt with by Zenith, as his insurer. He said he had made it aware of his financial 
situation and potential loss of earnings through it not dealing with his claim. He said the £225 
compensation Zenith had paid didnt come close to the thousands of pounds he could have 
earned if it had dealt with his claim. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Zenith says Mr Js broker appointed the AMC to handle his claim. I can see the AMC notified 
Zenith of Mr Js claim a day after his accident. It sent Zenith an accident report form with a 
covering email stating it was for information purposes only.  Zenith received a report of the 
incident around a week later which indicated that Mr J wasnt claiming for damage to his own 
vehicle because AMC / Broker Dealing. 
Given the above, I think it was reasonable for Zenith to have concluded that it didnt need to 
deal with a claim for damage to Mr Js vehicle at this point. 
The AMC has told us that it informed Mr J that it had stopped dealing with his claim in late 
March 2022. It says it was Mr Js responsibility to inform his insurers (i.e. Zenith) and it told 
him that he needed to do so.
Mr J has confirmed the AMC told him it had stopped dealing with his claim in March 2022. 
He says most of his dealings in reference to his claim were through phone calls that he 
made to his broker because Zenith were either unobtainable or not responding to his emails.
I can see that Mr J emailed Zenith in early April asking for an update. He said he hadnt 
heard any more about how the claim was progressing or who was liable for the accident.  
Zenith responded to Mr J a couple of days later by letter. It updated him on the liability 
dispute and said it noted that he was dealing with the AMC, so it needed to be careful not to 
undertake any action which might prejudice their side of the claim. 
There was some further correspondence between Mr J and Zenith over the next couple of 
months. But it doesnt look like Mr J told Zenith the AMC was no longer dealing with his 
claim. And the correspondence from Zenith to Mr J shows that it was under the impression 
that the AMC was dealing with the claim. 
From what I can see, I dont think Zenith became aware that the AMC was no longer 
involved until early July 2022 after contact from Mr Js broker. Once it had established the AMC was no longer dealing with the claim, Zenith arranged for Mr Js vehicle to be collected 
and a valuation to be carried out. Zenith made Mr J a settlement offer within a couple of 
weeks of taking over the claim. 
I appreciate Mr J wasnt offered a settlement until over four months after the accident. 
However, Im not persuaded that Zenith is responsible for the delay. The AMC was dealing 
with the claim when Zenith was made aware of the incident. And Im satisfied that Zenith 
dealt with the claim promptly once it became aware it needed to take it over.
Zenith has apologised for the customer service issues Mr J experienced, including the 
difficulties he had contacting it by phone and its failure to update his address. I think the 
£225 Zenith has paid Mr J fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
as a result of these issues.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr J, who says hes suffered a significant 
loss of earnings due to being with out a car. However, Ive explained why I dont think Zenith 
caused a delay in his claim being progressed. So, Im not persuaded its responsible for any 
financial loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman