DRN-3822640
The complaint
Mr Ws complained  on behalf of his late wife, Mrs Ws estate  that Liverpool Victoria 
Financial Services Limited, trading as LV= (LV) declined the estates life insurance claim, 
because they said a question relating to Mrs Ws health had been answered inaccurately in 
the application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W decided to apply for additional life insurance cover at the end of 2016.  So   
Mr W contacted a broker to get some quotes.  He acted as Mrs Ws representative to get 
quotes for her.
The broker took details from Mr W about his and Mrs Ws needs  including answers to a 
number of health and lifestyle questions.  Mr W confirmed that Mrs W had been suffering 
from acid reflux and had consulted her GP two days previously.  And he explained the GP 
had placed her on medication for a trial period to see if that assisted.
The broker completed an application with LV.  They included information about Mrs Ws acid 
reflux.  The question:
Are your symptoms controlled and have you been discharged from medical follow up?
was answered yes.  The application was accepted by LV and the policy commenced.
A few months later, Mrs W was sadly diagnosed with cancer and passed away in 2021.     
Mr W submitted a claim to LV on behalf of her estate.  LV declined the claim on the basis 
that the answer to the question above was inaccurate.  
LV said their enquiries Mrs W showed that Mrs W hadnt been discharged from medical 
follow up when she made the application.  And they explained that, if theyd had this 
information at the time, they would have postponed her application.  LV refunded the 
premiums that had been paid to her estate. 
Mr W complained to LV on behalf of the estate about their decision.  LV rejected the 
complaint and explained Mrs Ws medical notes confirmed that, when shed seen her GP, 
shed been referred for a gastroscopy.  And she was trialling medication.  LV said theyd 
followed the Association of British Insurers Code of Practice in classing what had happened 
as a careless misrepresentation.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with LVs response and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded LV didnt need to do anything different to resolve 
matters.  He noted Mr W had said Mrs Ws GP had made the gastroscopy referral without 
telling her and he wasnt persuaded Mrs W had known about it.  But he was satisfied that 
she knew she was trialling medication to control her acid reflux.
LV confirmed if theyd known about this, they would have postponed providing cover until 
after the two months trial was complete.  The investigator thought this was fair and showed 
that a qualifying misrepresentation had been made.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Ws made on behalf of Mrs Ws estate.  
Ill explain why.
When Mr W contacted us, he told us he wanted LV to settle the claim.  Its not my role to tell 
them to do that.  Rather, I have to decide whether the decision they reached was reasonable 
and was made in line with the relevant law.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
In this case, LV have said that Mrs W didnt take reasonable care in answering the question 
Ive quoted above.  Mr W (who actually dealt with the broker on Mrs Ws behalf) says the 
question is ambiguous and is a double question which is not capable of a straightforward 
yes or no response.  Ive thought about this.
While the question is two-fold, I dont agree its impossible to answer it either yes or no.  The 
two parts are joined with and.  So I think its only reasonable to answer with yes if thats 
the answer to both halves.
Its not clear whether, at the time the question was answered, Mrs W knew a gastroscopy 
had been booked by her GP.  But I dont think that makes any difference to the answer.  As 
our investigator said, she knew she had been prescribed medication on a trial basis two 
days earlier.  So I dont think its reasonable to have described her symptoms as controlled 
so soon after.  Nor do I think, in the circumstances of a trial, its reasonable to say Mrs W 
had been discharged from medical follow up.  
Im also satisfied the misrepresentation made was a qualifying one within the meaning set 
out in CIDRA, because LV have shown theyd have reached a different conclusion on cover 
if the question had been answered no. LV have said that, in those circumstances, they 
would have referred the matter to their underwriters.  And the underwriters would have 
postponed the policy.
Finally, Ive considered LVs categorisation of the misrepresentation.  Im satisfied the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt indicate any intention by either Mrs or Mr W to misrepresent her 
health.  But the information wasnt accurate.  
So I think LVs categorisation of the misrepresentation as careless was fair.  Mr W has 
confirmed hes received a refund of the premiums Mrs W paid, which is the remedy CIDRA sets out in cases of careless misrepresentation.  I think thats fair.  And Im not asking LV to 
do any more to resolve the complaint Mr Ws brought on behalf of Mrs Ws estate.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Ws made about 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited, trading as LV= on behalf of Mrs Ws estate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman