DRN-3933182
The complaint
Mrs B complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling of her buildings insurance 
claim.
Mrs B is represented by Mr B, who I shall refer to below. 
All references to UKI also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered everything hes said carefully. But my findings focus on what I consider 
to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by all parties to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it.
Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate Mr B will disappointed but Ill explain why.
The Flagstones 
UKI has provided a video and photos taken by its contractors when attending the 
property. 
UKI said the damage to the flagstones has occurred gradually due to continual jet 
washing. As gradual damage, and wear and tear, is excluded under the policy, UKI 
have relied on this exclusion to decline this part of the claim.
Mr B said the damage was sudden and unexpected, and if the mortar had come out 
gradually, he wouldve noticed and claimed previously.
Having reviewed the video, it shows the pointing is missing in several of the 
flagstones around the drain. 
Mortar generally does tend to deteriorate over a period of time, and it wouldnt be 
usual for the level of deterioration seen to be present from one single incident. And 
its general condition appears to be similar throughout the other areas of the slabs.
I appreciate the mortar in the joints coming off in the drain area may have presented 
itself to Mr B suddenly.  But from the information available to me, Im currently more 
persuaded by what UKI has said: the damage has occurred gradually over time. I 
think its more likely than not, that episode of jet washing happened to highlight 
damage that had already been occurring.
Accidental Damage Cover and Excess
UKI accepted part of Mrs Bs claim relating to the drains. As it can provide cover 
under the accidental damage section of the policy.
UKI said bringing the drains to a serviceable condition will resolve the issue with the 
blockage. However, if it doesnt, it could be possible the damage to the flagstones is 
related to the drains. But UKI said this could only be determined once the drains are 
repaired. 
If this is the case UKI says it will further investigate and consider the damage to the 
flagstones. 
UKI is responsible for carrying out a lasting and effective repair under the terms of 
the policy. So, if Mr B decides to proceed with the repair, and once it is complete, the 
issue with the silt build up in the drain continues, UKI would be required to 
reinvestigate to ensure a lasting and effective repair has happened. Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me UKI is obviously wrong at present in its rationale, so I think 
its acted reasonably here.
I understand why Mr B is concerned about paying the excess, but an excess is 
payable for any accepted claim. And the terms and conditions of the policy sets out a 
£500 excess applies for Accidental Damage. So, I dont think UKI have acted unfairly 
here. 
Service
Mr B is unhappy with the contractors UKI have used and says it has no credibility. 
When it initially visited, UKI believed no cover could be provided under the policy. 
However, Mr B pointed out the drains would also block when raining and UKI 
reattended shortly after and discovered further damage to a loose section of pipe in 
the drains. 
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration with UKI. Had he not pointed this out, this element 
might not have been discovered. But he did point it out, and it was discovered, 
shortly after in a second visit. UKI then accepted this part of the claim under the 
accidental damage section of the policy.
And while I do agree its first investigation didnt uncover the issue with the section of 
pipe, Ive set out above why Im persuaded by what UKI have said. And in the 
absence of any other expert reports to say otherwise, I cant say UKI is obviously 
wrong in its rationale as Mr B says.
UKI accepted it could have provided better service and clearer communication to 
Mr B. Its offered Mr B £75 compensation to recognise the inconvenience caused.
Having considered everything, and based on what Ive set out above, I believe this 
amount to be fair and reasonable. As it is within the region of what our service would 
recommend and fairly recognises the inconvenience Mr B has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman