DRN-3823736
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when trying 
to trace a cheque that was paid from his account.
What happened
Mr A paid a cheque of £10,000 to a third party in January 2007. In 2021 the beneficiary told 
Mr A they hadnt received the funds as the cheque had bounced. Mr A checked his account 
and could see the £10,000 had debited his account on 30 January 2007. So, he contacted 
HSBC, asking them to provide him with a copy of the cheque, so he could show who it had 
been paid to.
HSBC told Mr A there would be a fee, but they could request a copy of the cheque for him. 
Mr A told HSBC he would like to collect the copy from a branch as he didnt want it sent to 
his home address. HSBC made the request for a copy of the cheque through their normal 
process but due to the passage of time they no longer held the information. HSBC didnt tell 
Mr A this at the time and let him make the same request on multiple occasions, letting him 
visit the branch thinking he could collect it, until he complained at the lack of progress with 
his request.
HSBC responded, letting him know they no longer had a copy of the cheque, and they 
couldnt tell him who it was paid to or what bank or building society the funds were credited 
to, nor give him an account number. They did, though, confirm that the cheque had debited 
his account and there was no indication that it had been returned unpaid, they were also 
able to confirm the cheque number. HSBC also offered Mr A £100 for allowing him to 
continue to make a request for a copy of the cheque when they knew they didnt have it.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service as he felt he had been given the run-around and 
HSBC should have told him earlier that they couldnt help him.
HSBC believed Mr As complaint was out of time and so didnt think we could consider it.
Our investigator said the complaint was one we could consider and went on to make findings 
on the merits of Mr As complaint in the same assessment. The investigator didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld, he accepted there were things HSBC could have done better 
but thought the £100 compensation already awarded was fair and in line with our approach. 
The investigator also told Mr A there was an originating sort code on HSBCs system, 
showing which bank the cheque had been paid in to. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings specifically, he said he was dissatisfied with 
the whole process and the length of time it had taken HSBC to deal with his complaint. He 
said he had not received or agreed to the £100 HSBC had offered, and that his complaint 
was not about compensation as he wasnt looking for any. He asked for an Ombudsman to 
review the case and wanted the following points considered:
HSBCs communication
Why wasnt the detail of the originating sort code given to him earlier  was HSBC 
trying to hide this from him
HSBC should be told to keep their customers happy
HSBC asked for an ombudsmans thoughts on the jurisdiction matter when deciding the 
case. On 24 November 2022, I issued a decision saying the case was one we could 
consider as I didnt think it was time-barred. 
As the investigator has previously issued findings on the merits of the case and both parties 
have had an opportunity to comment on them, I will now go on to decide the merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and not something that falls within this services 
jurisdiction. As such its not something we have the power to consider, so I havent 
commented on Mr As point about the length of time HSBC took to deal with his complaint.
HSBC no longer have a copy of the cheque Mr A was requesting and due to the passage of 
time thats not unreasonable. So, what I must decide here is did HSBC communicate that in 
an efficient way to Mr A. Initially they put forward his request to the relevant department who 
were able to tell him relatively quickly they no longer held the information he sought. 
However, following this communication, HSBC allowed Mr A to continue requesting 
information they knew they simply could not provide. This led to protracted calls and 
unnecessary requests being made, where Mr A assumed he would be receiving the 
information. I appreciate the staff members Mr A spoke to were only trying to help when 
putting through the requests, but this led, understandably, to confusion for both parties and 
frustration for Mr A. It was because of this that HSBC offered £100 in compensation. When 
considering if the offer is fair, Ive also taken into account HSBC had already told Mr A they 
no longer held the information, so he did have a part to play in continuing to request it. As 
such I think £100 is a fair offer in the circumstances.
HSBC were aware of the reason Mr A wanted a copy of the cheque and were able to give 
him some details that were still held on their systems, such as the date the cheque debited 
his account, the cheque number and confirmation that the cheque wasnt returned unpaid or 
bounced.  The letter they sent to Mr A with these details said they could not confirm the 
bank or building society the cheque was paid into  this isnt strictly true.
Ive seen evidence from HSBCs systems showing an originating sort code  this is an 
identifying number for the bank or building society where the cheque was cleared. It doesnt identify the branch where the cheque was deposited or the account the cheque was credited 
to. So, while I accept it may have been helpful for Mr A to know which bank or building 
society the cheque had been paid to, it wouldnt have given him any more insight into if the 
beneficiary of the cheque had received the funds. So, I can see why HSBC didnt think it was 
relevant and I dont think they deliberately held back information from Mr A. It follows, I dont 
think they needed to do anything differently here.
Mr A has told us that he doesnt want compensation as thats not what he was seeking by 
bringing his complaint. But I dont think the outcome he is seeking is something thats 
possible for this service to award. The copy of the cheque is no longer held by HSBC, so 
there is nothing more I can require them to do to help him find the answers he is looking for. 
HSBC have accepted they could have done better when communicating this to Mr A, and I 
cant change whats happened here, save to say the offer of compensation is fair. And 
finally, Mr A would like HSBC to be told they should keep their customers happy  but this 
isnt something I can direct HSBC to do. My role here is to look at Mr As individual case, 
only, and for the reasons already explained Im satisfied in his case HSBC have done what 
they could to help him by sharing the information they do hold. And where they could have 
done better, they have accepted this and made a fair offer of compensation.
I appreciate that this probably isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for and realise that he may 
well be disappointed. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with 
HSBC can do for him.
Putting things right
HSBC should now pay Mr A, on his acceptance, the £100 they offered to him in their final 
response letter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint about 
HSBC UK Bank Plc and now require them to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman