DRN-3017333
The complaint
Ms W complained that her claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy with 
HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Ms W made a claim under her policy as shed noticed water running down her windows 
during recent heavy rainfall. She thought there was a problem with her gutter or roof. HDI 
appointed a surveyor to assess the damage.
Ms W said she noticed heavy rainfall caused water to form a pool in her garden and around 
the rainwater downpipe. Ms W advised that she was concerned that the main roof was not 
draining correctly as you could hear running water internally during periods of rainfall.
HDI said the surveyor inspected the property externally but was unable to identify any storm 
related damage / issues to the roof or downpipe, he suggested that the downpipe and 
rainwater drainage has simply been unable to cope with the volume of rainfall leaving the 
surrounding area saturated but, unfortunately as there is no evidence of any insured peril 
having occurred, your claim was declined in full.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She agreed that HDI had been fair in 
declining the claim for the reasons it set out. She thought the evidence supported its view. 
Ms W disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HDI said when declining the claim I am not persuaded that you are able to demonstrate that 
a one-off storm or any other insured event was the dominant or sole cause of any damage 
sustained to your property. I have considered whether its fair in saying this. When Ms W 
made the claim, the onus is on her to show that an insured event most likely caused the 
damage. An insured event is normally a one-off identifiable event that is set out in the policy.
I havent seen that Ms W has set out what her damage is or put forward a one-off event that 
caused it. From what I have read, it seems Ms W claim is about a common issue that occurs 
after heavy rainfall. As this wouldnt be an insured event, its likely I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
However, as HDI has considered the claim in line with how it would normally consider a 
claim for storm damage, I have checked HDI has followed a reasonable approach in its 
assessment of this. 
 When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
HDI said storm conditions werent present in the weeks preceding the date Ms W made her 
claim. Ms W raised her claim on 13 November 2019. I have checked weather reports in the 
week of the claim and there is evidence of mild storm conditions. There was a gust of wind 
recorded at 47 mph on 12 November 2019 and 7 November 2019 there as 55mm of rainfall 
in 24 hours. Therefore, I dont think HDI were fair to say storm conditions didnt exist, I think 
the answer to this question is yes.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Ms W said she had water cascading down her window. So, whilst she hasnt pointed to 
specific damage caused by the storm, the water cascading down the window maybe a 
symptom of another problem. So, I have continued to consider the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I need to see if the storm was the dominant cause of the water cascading down the window. 
HDIs surveyor assessed the damage and produced a report explaining the likely cause. I 
think HDI has taken a reasonable approach in getting an expert view before making its 
decision whether the damage was covered by the policy.
HDI rejected the claim, as its surveyor said the storm was not the main cause of damage. 
The surveyors report said we inspected the property externally however no storm related 
damage was identified. We were unable to locate any damage/issues to the roof and the 
Customer was also very unclear on the claim circumstances. Water was however advised to 
pool within the front garden during heavy rainfall and this is advised to have been occurring 
around the rainwater downpipe. It is therefore likely that this downpipe and rainwater 
drainage has failed to cope with the volume of recent rainfall and the surrounding ground 
has become saturated. As such we do not consider that a valid insurance claim exists.
This is the only expert report I have access to. I havent seen any contrary evidence. 
Therefore, I dont think HDI has been unfair in declining the claim on this basis. It has used 
the report of an expert who visited and assessed what had happened at the property. The 
expert didnt find any damage, so he couldnt say damage had been caused by the storm.
Therefore, as I am unable to answer yes to all three questions, I cant uphold this 
complaint. I think HDI have been fair in declining the claim for storm damage.
Ms W was unhappy that HDI wouldnt provide a second opinion by sending out another 
surveyor to assess the damage. No evidence has been supplied to suggest a storm or any 
other insured event caused any damage to Ms Ws property. So, I dont think HDI were 
unreasonable in not honouring this request. HDI had concluded that it was likely the gutters 
were unable to hold the volume of water that fell at the time of the claim. If new information 
had been provided to cast doubt on what the surveyor had said, then I would say a second 
opinion was sensible. But, as no information has been provided, I think the conclusion HDI 
has put forward is the most likely explanation of what happened. So, I dont think HDI has been unfair and I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require HDI Global Speciality SE 
to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman