DRN-2380458
The complaint
Mr L complains about the suitability of Zurich Assurance Ltds advice to invest in five index-
linked maximum investment plans (MIP) in the late 90s. His representative, a Claims 
Management company (CMC), says there is no evidence that other forms of savings were 
discussed. Also, Mr L was single and without dependents throughout the various advice 
points and so did not need the life cover which impacted on any returns.
What happened
In 1996 Mr L was 26, earning £17,500 a year as a trainee. He was recommended to invest 
£50 per month in a MIP - a regular premium, unit-linked, qualifying savings plan - designed 
to provide a lump sum on maturity. This was meant to be held for 10 years and included life 
cover of £9,000. Mr L stopped making payments in June 2003 and surrendered the plan in 
2005.
In 1997 he was recommended to invest in another MIP with a 10-year term and a monthly 
premium of £150. It provided life cover of £27,000. He maintained the premiums until June 
2003 and surrendered it early in September 2004.
In May 1998 he was recommended to invest £50 in another MIP with a 10-year term. It 
provided life cover of £9,000. The premiums were paid until June 2003 and was surrendered 
early in September 2004.
Later in November 1998 he was advised to start another MIP with a 10-year term. The 
amount of life cover is unclear. His contribution was £100 per month and having paid 
payments until June 2003, it was withdrawn early in March 2005.
In 1999 a fifth MIP was arranged to top up the plan taken out in May 1998. The contribution 
was £300 per month and provided life cover of £54,000. The premiums were paid until 
October 2002 and surrendered early in September 2004.
An investigator at this service felt Mr Ls complaint should be upheld, saying:
Mr L was single with no dependents and looking to save and build up capital for the 
future. There was no clear indication over what timescale he was looking to invest
The funds selected for all but one of the plans comprised of a 50/50 split between 
managed and equity funds
Zurich said that the underlying funds all matched Mr Ls attitude to risk, which its 
advisor/s recorded as 2/balanced
Given Mr Ls circumstances and objectives, she thought that he was prepared (and 
had the capacity) to accept some risk with these monthly sums
But as he was single and without dependants, he had no need for the life cover 
intrinsic to the plans
She appreciated that a certain level of life cover was necessary in order to retain the 
plans qualifying status but said the costs ate into any potential returns
She was also not convinced that Mr L wished to be tied into 10-year savings 
commitments given his age and circumstances (which in all likelihood could have 
changed within that time)
She noted that in the first meeting with the advisor, Mr L indicated that he was renting 
but interested in looking to take out a mortgage later that year
She couldnt see any discussion of how long Mr L was prepared to invest for
In her view the adviser should have pointed him towards an investment which did not 
tie him in for such a fixed period of time and with deductions for unnecessary life 
cover
As a tied agent, if the adviser wasnt able to offer Mr L an appropriate product then 
he shouldnt have recommended any product
Zurich should pay potential compensation based on this services recommended 
balanced risk investment formula, and pay interest on any loss
Zurich disagreed, and said:
At each advice point Mr L would have understood that the purpose of the MIP was to 
provide savings with a 10-year term in mind. This was made clear to him at the 
outset and reinforced with each subsequent investment
There is no evidence to show that Mr L was making his savings for anything 
specifically so there was no reason why he shouldnt invest for a period of 10 years
If he was unwilling or unable to invest for a period of 10 years, or felt that this was 
unsuitable for his requirements, he had plenty of opportunity to consider this and was 
under no obligation to accept the recommendations
The cost of life cover was less than 5% of the monthly contributions so this did not 
render the advice unsuitable given the resultant favourable tax treatment
It believes there is no evidence to suggest that the recommendation was unsuitable
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
There is no evidence to indicate that Mr L wanted or needed the unnecessary life cover. 
While this might have made the plans tax-efficient in the long run, depending on Mr Ls tax 
status when they matured, I think the advisor ought to have made clear that his regular 
savings sums were being reduced and that this would inevitably affect potential returns, 
particularly given the not insignificant amount he was paying for unnecessary life cover by 
the time he agreed to take out the fifth policy.
I also think, in this case, the advisor should have considered whether it was in Mr Ls best 
interests to keep recommending the same investment plan. While these plans contained a 
diverse mix of assets, recommending five of them did not offer Mr L any protection if the 
product itself performed poorly compared to other investment products.
However, my biggest concern about these recommendations concerns the length of the 
plans themselves and whether either Mr L or the advisor was in a position to safely say that 
he would want or be able to commit to such a length of time.
According to the illustrated annual return (of 7.5%), Mr L would still get back less than he 
had paid in if he surrendered a plan after five years. They were, in essence, all designed to 
be kept  and paid in to - for 10 years in order to deliver meaningful returns. Mr L was just 26 at the time of the first recommendation, with many aspects of his future far 
from decided. He was single, living in rented accommodation and employed on a trainee 
basis. According to the advisors record, his outgoings accounted for nearly 80% of his 
income, meaning this recommendation would use up 40% of his surplus income. On top of 
which Mr L was planning to buy a property/take out a mortgage later in the year  with no 
estimate of the likely cost or impact on his surplus income.
Given all this I dont believe Mr L should have been recommended to undertake such a 
lengthy inflexible savings commitment. His circumstances, objectives and personal 
commitments were highly likely to change between the age of 26 and 36, and he could not 
have known at that point whether he want or be able to afford this monthly commitment over 
the next 10 years. Work/life/marriage/family commitments could all have changed his 
economic position and financial priorities.
In my view, the same argument applied to the subsequent recommendations during which 
time Mr L was still under 30, single and with no dependents.
I acknowledge that the documentation made clear that these were all 10-year savings plans 
and Mr L ought reasonably to have realised this when agreeing to take them out. But this 
does not absolve the advisor, an experienced/knowledgeable financial expert (unlike Mr L), 
from offering advice which was appropriate and suitable for Mr Ls circumstances and 
possible medium-term objectives. 
The advisor, in my view, ought reasonably to have known that Mr L, particularly given his 
age, could not safely predict whether he would want or be able to afford to make 10-year 
savings commitments at this stage of his life. It would have been self-evidently more 
appropriate to recommend flexible savings plans which could accommodate Mr Ls likely 
changes in income, commitments and/or lifestyle. The fact that Mr L surrendered all these 
plans early, in my view, supports this argument.
I am satisfied that Mr L wanted to invest the sums in question and was prepared to take a 
reasonable risk in order to try and increase his capital. I therefore believe compensation 
should be based on this services recommended medium or balanced risk returns formula.
Putting things right
Redress
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr L 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that he would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and
reasonable given his circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Zurich Assurance Ltd should compare the amounts Mr L received when he surrendered 
each of the five plans with how much the same monthly sums, invested on the same days, 
would have delivered if they had achieved a return equal to that shown by the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index. If any of these calculations shows a loss it 
must pay this sum and add interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date each plan was 
surrendered to the date of settlement of this complaint.
 
My final decision I uphold this complaint and instruct Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay compensation, if 
appropriate, on the basis outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman