DRN-2960858
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr P a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr P took out a loan in September 1990. At the same time a single premium PPI policy was 
set up to protect the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and 
interest charged.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive looked at the possible ways the PPI might have been mis-sold and, having done that, 
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. These are my reasons:
The PPI was described as optional on the loan agreement and the basic PPI cost set 
out separately, so I think Mr P would have understood he had a choice about taking it. 
It seems that Lloyds advised Mr P to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances at the time. The PPI could have made 
the loan payments if Mr P became redundant or fell sick. It could have paid for a period 
longer than Mr Ps likely full sick pay from his job lasted. And the PPI payments would 
have been on top of any employer sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr P more 
financially secure for longer. This would have meant Mr P wouldnt need to fall back on 
other resources so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was 
unsuitable. It would then be up to Mr P to decide if he wanted to take PPI.
Even if Mr P didnt ever actually need to make a claim on the insurance, it doesnt mean 
that it wasnt useful to him  it could have given him peace of mind and protected him if 
he did fall sick long term, or lose his job. 
Mr P would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium if the policy had been 
cancelled early. This can be an issue where a customer might pay the loan off early  for 
example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was 
likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it unsuitable for Mr P. 
The cost of the PPI was set out on the loan agreement, although it wasnt made clear 
how much interest hed be paying on the premium. (The premium for the insurance was 
added to the loan  so it incurred interest.) But the loan was for only a year and the 
actual interest didnt add a large amount  so I dont think its likely to have changed 
Mr Ps mind, even if it had been made clear. 
Its possible that Lloyds didnt clearly point out what the PPI wouldnt cover  but I cant 
see that Mr P, in his circumstances,  would have been significantly affected by this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman