DRN-3152609
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that American Express Service Europe Limited (Amex) are reporting that 
he has credit available to him regarding a defaulted account.
What happened
Mr S had an Amex account with a credit limit of £8,000. The account was defaulted in 
February 2016 with an outstanding balance of approximately £8,480. Since that time, Mr S 
has noticed that, even though his Amex account is defaulted, one of the credit reference 
agencies has been reporting the £8,000 credit limit on that account as being available to    
Mr S. The presence of this erroneous available credit on his credit file has impacted Mr Ss 
ability to obtain other credit, and when Mr S asked the credit reference agency in question 
about this, they explained that theyre reporting the information that Amex have sent them.
Mr S asked Amex to correct the credit file reporting with this credit reference agency on 
several occasions and ultimately raised a complaint with Amex about it. Amex looked at     
Mr Ss complaint, but they felt that there were making the correct reports to all of the credit 
refence agencies, including the agency in question, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Amexs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Amex were reporting the 
correct information to the credit reference agency, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes screenshots provided by Mr S from all three of the main credit reference 
agencies. This shows that for two of the agencies, when the Amex account was defaulted, 
the available credit being reported reduced from £8,000 to £0. However, for the other credit 
reference agency this change in credit limit never took place, meaning that the available 
credit being reported by that agency continued to be £8,000. 
Ive therefore approached Amex and asked them for confirmation of the credit file reporting 
that they issued following the defaulting of the accounts, as well as for any additional 
comments on the situation that they might have.
Amex provided a copy of the reporting that they issued to all the credit reference agencies, 
including the agency in question, and this clearly shows that following the defaulting of Mr 
Ss account Amex were reporting to that credit reference agency that Mr Ss amount of 
available credit was £0. 
As such, Im satisfied that Amex arent reporting to the credit reference agency in question 
that Mr S still has available credit of £8,000, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Amex to take any further action at this time.
Ultimately, I dont feel that Amex have done anything wrong here. But I would encourage 
Amex, in the interest of customer satisfaction, to liaise jointly with Mr S and the credit 
reference agency in question in order for this situation to be resolved.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr S was wanting here, but this complaint 
was raised specifically against Amex, and as explained above, Im satisfied from the 
information provided to me that Amex havent been making incorrect reports to the credit 
reference agency as Mr S suspected. As such, I hope that Mr S will understand why Ive 
made the final decision here that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman