DRN-3689929
The complaint
Mrs Bs complained (on behalf of the joint policyholder, Mr B, and herself) that Esure 
Services Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels (Esure) mis-sold their home insurance policy 
to them, because they believed they had accidental damage cover when that wasnt the 
case. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought home insurance cover from Esure in early 2020.  They renewed the 
policy in 2021 and 2022.  Throughout this time, Mrs B dealt with Esure on behalf of herself 
and her husband  so Ive just referred to Mrs B in this decision.
In spring 2022, Mrs Bs laptop computer stopped working after she spilt a drink on it.  She 
contacted Esure to make a claim under the contents section of the policy.  Esure declined 
the claim on the basis it could only be considered as an accidental damage claim  and   
Mrs B hadnt purchased accidental damage cover.
Mrs B complained to Esure and said shed been mis-sold the policy.  She said shed made 
some changes to the policy when she renewed at the start of 2022.  And, while she 
understood shed not had accidental damage cover before then, she thought it had been 
added during this call.   And she said the documents shed received didnt list accidental 
damage as an optional extra  so she believed it had been included in the price shed paid.  
Esure rejected Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, so Mrs B brought it to our service.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Esure didnt need to do any more to resolve Mrs 
Bs complaint.  
He listened to the initial purchase call Mrs B made in 2020 and heard Mrs B tell Esures 
agent she didnt want accidental damage cover either buildings of contents.  And the 
investigator said Mrs B didnt ask for it to be added in January 2022  only for specified 
items to be amended.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mrs B wanted to make a claim after her laptop was damaged.  But  as Esure 
explained in their own response to her complaint  insurers are entitled to satisfy themselves 
that policyholders have cover in place before they settle a claim.
Its clear Mrs B didnt have accidental damage cover.  She says thats because the policy 
was mis-sold to her, and she didnt have what she thought shed bought.  Ive thought 
carefully about this.
I can see that, although Mrs B did speak to members of Esures staff before she bought her 
policy, it was sold on a non-advised basis.  The majority of policies are bought on this 
basis.  Put simply, it means Esure didnt recommend Mrs B buy their policy.  Rather, they 
gave her a quote, based on the information she provided, and it was up to Mrs B to check it 
met her needs.
Like our investigator, Ive listened to the call Mrs B made to Esure when she first bought a 
policy from them in 2020, and to the call she made before she renewed in early 2022.  
Theres an exchange during the 2020 call about whether to add accidental damage cover for 
contents.  The Esure employee asks Mrs B:
So would you like to add accidental damage cover to your contents?
In response, Mrs B checks the type of thing that would be covered and then says:
No, I think well be fine on that one.
I dont think it could be any clearer that Mrs B didnt buy accidental damage in 2020.
Mrs B was provided with a recording of the call she made to Esure before she renewed her 
policy in 2022.  Having listened to this, Mrs B responded to the investigators view by 
explaining that, although it was clear shed not had accidental damage cover before the call, 
she thought the changes to the cover made during the call had included adding accidental 
damage.
Ive listened very carefully to this call.  Mrs B wanted to make some changes to the items 
specified on the policy and the call handler agreed to do this and look at other aspects of the 
policy to see if they met her needs.  Following that conversation, legal expenses and home 
emergency cover were removed.
Having listened to the call, I cant agree the call handler suggested that accidental damage 
cover had been added to the policy.  The call handler makes it clear that Mrs B doesnt have 
this.  He asked Mrs B if she wanted information about it.  Mrs B didnt answer that question 
but asked about whether the items shed called about would be replaced on a like for like 
basis.  The conversation then proceeds in a different direction.
Nothing Ive heard indicates that accidental damage was added.  It wasnt mentioned when 
the call handler ran through the excesses applicable to the cover Mrs B had added.  Mrs B 
has said that after this discussion there was a further small adjustment to the premium.  But 
thats a downward adjustment.  And the call handler had said at the start of the call hed try 
and apply a discount if he could.  I think that  not adding accidental damage cover  
accounts for that change.
And Ive noted that Esure sent Mrs B updated documentation following their conversation 
and advised her to check the details to make sure it met her needs.  Thats usual where 
policies are sold on a non-advised basis, so the customer can read it and check it meets 
their needs.  
Mrs B has said that she thought accidental damage was covered because it wasnt detailed 
as an optional extra on the schedule.  Thats true.  But Im satisfied from what Ive seen and 
heard thats not how accidental damage would have been recorded.  
The conversations with Mrs B refer to the fact she doesnt have accidental damage cover  
only standard cover.  And the schedules she received  including the one sent after the 
conversation in early 2022  all show standard cover was what had been arranged.  I cant see Mrs B questioned this with Esure, although the covering document invited her to 
do so.  And, while Im sorry she didnt have the cover she thought she did, I dont think that 
was due to mis-selling on Esures part.  So I dont think they need to do any more to resolve 
Mrs Bs complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Esure 
Services Limited, trading as Sheilas Wheels.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman