DRN-3289379
The complaint
Mr F complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) avoided his insurance
policy after it found that his car had been modified.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 6 December 2021. I planned to come to a 
different outcome to our investigator, and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with anything additional they wanted me to consider before I reached my final 
decision. Both parties have now responded, and so Im now in a position to come to my 
decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
In April 2021, Mr F was involved in an incident which caused damage to his car. The third
party was held liable for the incident. Mr F contacted Skyfire who took the car in for repairs.
Skyfires repairers checked the car and said it had been modified with an aftermarket body
wrap. Skyfire said it wouldnt have insured the car had it been aware of the body wrap  it
said it wouldnt insure any vehicle with this type of modification. Because of this, it avoided
Mr Fs policy  so treated it as though it had never been in place.
Mr F says he was unaware his car had been modified and so when he took out the cover, he
didnt let Skyfire know. He says that he has another vehicle which has been modified, and so
he knows that he would have needed to declare any modifications to Skyfire when taking out
the cover.
Skyfire responded to Mr Fs complaint to say that its decision to avoid the policy was correct.
It said that after reviewing pictures of the car, it was clear that it had been modified with a
body wrap  and that Mr F should have let it know about this when he took out the cover. It
said that it wouldnt have ever insured the car had it been made aware of this. Because of
this, is had avoided the policy and treated it as though it never existed  and refunded the
premiums Mr F had paid. In addition to this, Skyfire explained that it had taken too long to
log his complaint, and so it paid him £75 to say sorry.
Our investigator also looked into what had happened. They explained that Skyfire could
avoid a policy if they found that a customer, Mr F in this case, had made a misrepresentation
when taking out the cover. Our investigator found that the questions Skyfire had asked Mr F
when he took out the cover had been clear, and they thought it was clear that the car had
been modified. For these reasons, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F didnt agree. He maintained that he had no idea that the car had been modified with a
body wrap. He said he would have declared this to Skyfire had he known. He said hed now
lost out as a result of not having his car repaired, and he would need to declare the avoided
policy to future insurers, which would increase any premiums hed need to pay.
Because Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen so far, Im intending to uphold Mr Fs complaint, and Ill
explain why below.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the
respective rights and responsibilities of consumers and insurers when entering into contracts
of insurance. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to make
any misrepresentations (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided the insurer
has asked clear and specific questions. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to
answer the questions accurately and this adversely affects the insurers ability to underwrite
the proposed risk, this is treated as a qualifying misrepresentation, which may entitle the
insurer to certain remedies depending on the nature and scope of the misrepresentation, i.e
whether its regarded as careless, reckless or deliberate.
So firstly, in order for me to agree with Skyfire that Mr F had made a misrepresentation, Id
need to be satisfied that the questions it asked him about the modifications were clear and
specific  and I dont currently think they were.
I can see that Mr F purchased his policy online through a price comparison website. Skyfire
has provided me with a copy of a screen shot of the questions it says it asked Mr F at the
time of sale. This shows that Skyfire had made a number of assumptions about Mr Fs car
based on its make and model. Mr F was asked to say whether the assumptions it had made
were correct or not.
Looking at the screen shot, I can see it states Weve checked with an independent provider
and made some assumptions for you. It then goes on to list the assumptions it has made
about Mr Fs car. There are seven assumptions listed in total, and one of these was Hasnt
been modified
Mr F was then prompted to say whether these assumptions were correct by selecting Yes
or No. It also explains that If something is not right or youre not sure, select No and you
can change any of the details.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely Mr F selected Yes to this question and
agreed with the assumptions that had been made. I say this because the statement of fact
Skyfire has provided me with doesnt show that Mr F had made any amendments to the
assumptions made.
Ive thought very carefully about the question Mr F was asked, and Ive given particular
consideration to whether it was clear and specific. Mr F says that he had no idea his car was
modified, and while I accept that it was Mr Fs responsibility to know about this, I dont think
the question it asked here would have prompted Mr F into checking if his car was in fact
modified. Theres no specific information in the question that explains what a modification is
or gives examples of what it would consider to be a modification. There isnt anywhere on
the screen shot it sent me that states that a modification would include any adjustments
made to the body work of the car.
If Mr F had answered No to the question, so stating that some or all of the assumptions
that had been made were incorrect, he would have been asked additional questions. There
is a question about modifications, where it was possible to say whether the car had beenmodified. There was also a small information icon that could have been selected to provide
additional information about what would be considered a modification. The information box
here explains that, amongst other things, any changes in the bodywork, including cosmetic
changes, would be considered a modification. And would prompt the reader to check with
their chosen provider if theyre not sure.
I do agree that if Mr F had seen this question, then it ought to have been clear that any
cosmetic changes, or changes to the bodywork would need to have been declared. And I
think the question being asked here is clear and specific. But I dont think it likely that Mr F
would have seen this information. I say this because I think it likely he would have only seen
this information if hed have said that the assumptions werent correct. As Ive explained, I
dont currently think there was any reason for him to have answered this question differently.
I dont currently think Mr F was asked a clear question by Skyfire through the price
comparison website. And it follows that Im currently of the opinion that Mr F took reasonable
care not to make a misrepresentation when he said the car hadnt been modified.
Therefore, Im not satisfied Skyfire was entitled to avoid Mr Fs policy in accordance with
CIDRA. And, as this means that it unfairly avoided his policy, I think Skyfire does have to
deal with his claim following the damage to his car. And  as CIDRA reflects our long 
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Skyfire to rely on it to
avoid Mr Fs policy would be an unfair and unreasonable outcome in this complaint.
Mr F responded to the provisional decision to say he accepted my provisional findings and 
didnt have anything further to add.
Skyfire also responded to say that it didnt agree, and made the below main points:
The investigators view stated that they thought it more likely that Mr F knew that his 
car was modified with a body wrap. This is because Mr F already had cars with 
modifications. The investigator also found that they thought it was clear that the car 
had been modified. 
Skyfire say that the investigators point concludes that even someone with little 
knowledge of car would clearly see the car had a wrap. And so, they should have 
disclosed this when applying for the insurance.
Mr Fs argument was that he didnt know the car was modified, however, my 
provisional decision states that the question asked didnt prompt Mr F to answer 
correctly. Skyfire added that it could understand if the customer COULDNT answer 
the question from a CIDRA perspective, but to then say we dont explain what a 
modification is (when the customer has admitted having another modified car) we 
dont feel this is a fair reflection of the problem. It then went on to provide 
screenshots of the questions asked again, and stated In this case, we could not offer 
cover if the correct information was submitted at application, therefore the correct 
processes have been followed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered everything again, it is still my decision that this complaint should upheld. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Skyfire but Ill explain my reasons for this 
below. 
Mr F has been consistent throughout in that he didnt know his car had been modified with a 
body wrap. And this is the reason he didnt answer the questions on the application correctly. 
While I appreciate that our investigator made a view that they thought Mr F was likely aware 
of the modification  especially given that he had other modified cars, Im not necessarily in 
agreement with this point.
Just because Mr F has modified cars already, this doesnt automatically mean that he knew 
this car was modified. I asked Mr F to provide me with evidence of the modifications on his 
other car, which he has done. I can see that Mr F has disclosed a number of different 
modifications, none of which relate to changes in the body work  I dont think I can find that 
by having some knowledge of specific types of modifications means that a person would 
have knowledge of all modifications.
Given that Mr F has a different car with modifications and that he disclosed these 
modifications to his other insurer, I dont see any reason why he wouldnt have done the 
same on this policy had he been aware.   
As Ive said in my provisional decision, Mr F was asked to confirm a number of assumptions 
that had no explanation surrounding them unless he answered no to these assumptions. 
Given this I dont this Skyfire met its obligation here to make sure it asked Mr F clear and 
specific questions.
But even if I assumed it had, given that I find it likely Mr F wasnt aware his car had been 
modified, it follows that I find he took reasonable care when agreeing to the assumptions and 
so there has been no qualifying misrepresentation here.
So, it follows that it is still my decision to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Skyfires unfair and unreasonable actions have had consequences for Mr F, including that he
had to take out new cover at a much greater premium. So Skyfires going to have to do a
number of things to put matters right. Skyfire should:
Remove the record of the avoidance from its own and any industry database.
Reinstate Mr Fs policy until the date he took out new cover elsewhere, marking the 
policy, at that time, as cancelled by him, and without charging a cancellation fee.
Consider Mr Fs claim for his damaged car.
If Mr F has had his car repaired, Skyfire will need to reimburse Mr F the cost he had 
to pay for the repairs.
If Mr F has paid for repairs, Skyfire needs to pay interest* on any settlement made to 
Mr F for repairs in line with the interest rate Mr F was charged. For example, if Mr F 
has paid for repairs using his debit card, then Skyfire would need to pay 8% simple 
interest. However, if he has used a credit card for the payment, then it will need to 
compensate him for the interest he paid at the same rate as his credit card, at a 
minimum of 8%  subject to proof being provided by Mr F.
Reimburse, subject to proof from Mr F of his new cover, any additional cost for the 
new cover compared to the cost of the policy he had with Skyfire, until the current 
policy expires. Plus interest* at a rate of 8% per year from the date the additional 
sum or sums were paid by Mr F until settlement is made. When the current policy expires and Mr F renews he wont have to declare the avoidance so his premium will 
no longer be negatively affected by it.
Pay Mr F £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
and unreasonable avoidance.
*If Skyfire consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, 
they should tell Mr F how much they have taken off, and give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint. Skyfire Insurance Company 
Limited should put things right for Mr F by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman