DRN-3722614
The complaint
Mrs T upgraded her current account to a fee-paying URCA with Bank of Scotland plc 
(BOS). Mrs T says that she was not told that she could have an overdraft on a fee-free 
account. 
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and they didnt think BOS had mis-sold the URCA. 
Because Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ts complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that BOS mis-sold the URCA. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I have considered whether Mrs T was given a fair choice in taking out this account. I 
should stress, where there is a dispute about what has happened, I must base my 
assessment on what is most likely to have happened at the time. And to do that, I have to 
base my assessment on everything that is available. Firstly, I note that Mrs T had held a fee 
free current account with BOS prior to when she took out the URCA in May 2010 and that 
this account had an overdraft facility in place. So I think she would have known that in 
general fee-free accounts were available from BOS with overdraft facilities. 
I note that Mrs T disputes that she had a current account with BOS beforehand. Mrs T 
maintains that her account was always an URCA from when it was opened. She had 
provided evidence that she believes demonstrates that BOS have altered her bank 
statements and records to make it look like she had a fee free account when in fact she did 
not. She has also claimed that this is reinforced by the card numbers on her debit cards and 
transactions on her account that are not correct. Mrs T also says that a member of staff for 
BOS confirmed that the URCA had been held from 2008. I have carefully considered all of 
the points that Mrs T has raised, including ones not listed above and I am not persuaded that 
Mrs T held the URCA from 2008. I do not think that Mrs Ts bank statements have been 
altered by BOS either. In any event BOSs system records, which show what accounts Mrs T 
has held over the time she has been with BOS also show that the URCA was taken out in 
2010.
Mrs T says she was not made aware that she could have an overdraft on a fee free account. 
But as she had already held one on a free account before having the URCA, I dont think 
that this is likely. I think it is more likely that Mrs T was told that by having the URCA she 
could have a fee free overdraft of up to £300 (subject to application). 
To explain, the URCA offered a £300 buffer limit, so account holders would not have to pay 
any daily overdraft usage fee if they were overdrawn up to £300. Whereas standard fee-free 
currents accounts at the time incurred a daily overdraft usage fee of £1 a day if they were 
overdrawn up to £300. Looking at Mrs Ts bank statements around the time the account was 
taken out, I can see that her overdraft limit was £50 and that around the time that Mrs Ts 
account was upgraded she had started to use this limit. This can be seen by £13 of overdraft 
fees being accrued in April 2010 prior to the upgrade (debited to the account in May 2010). 
This shows that just before the upgrade Mrs T was being charged fees that could have been 
avoided with the upgraded account.
By upgrading the account, Mrs T avoided the £1 a day fee that she wouldve been charged 
had she had a fee free account. So I think that she was likely made aware that she could 
have an overdraft on a fee free account, but it would not be free and therefore she chose the 
URCA as it came with a fee free overdraft. I note that after this upgrade the overdraft was 
increased over the next few months which suggests that this benefit was important to her 
and at least initially the intention was to stay within the fee free buffer limit.
The main account benefits at the time it was taken out, apart from the overdraft buffer, were 
mobile phone insurance, travel insurance, breakdown cover and home emergency cover. 
Mrs T has explained that she had her own mobile phone insurance, did not drive and did not 
travel. In relation to the mobile phone insurance, I can see no reason why Mrs T could not 
have cancelled her existing mobile phone insurance and used the one that came with the 
URCA if she wished to do so. I accept that she may not have been able to use the travel 
insurance and the breakdown cover, but I think that the main reason why Mrs T agreed to 
the account is because of the overdraft benefit.
Overall, while I do appreciate what Mrs T has said about the sale itself, on balance I think its 
more likely she agreed to the account because she was attracted to the overall package of 
benefits. 
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore BOS did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Mrs T. It did though have to give Mrs T enough information 
to decide this for herself. I think that the main benefits wouldve been outlined to Mrs T to 
make the account seem attractive. I accept that Mrs T may not have been given all the 
information about all of the benefits of the account, but I cant see anything specific that Mrs 
T was not told that I think wouldve changed her decision to take out the account. 
On balance, I think Mrs T agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that she didnt have to. 
And I think its more likely she did so because at the time she was interested in the benefits 
on the account, specifically the overdraft benefits, although I accept that Mrs T may no 
longer recall this. 
I understand that this decision will be disappointing for Mrs T. Its clear that Mrs T feels 
strongly that the account was mis-sold and I can see that, with hindsight, the account may 
not have provided value for money. But I cant say that an account was mis-sold just 
because Mrs T may not have received value for money. I can only say an account was mis-
sold if something went wrong during the sales process and in this instance I dont think that 
this was the case.
I note that Mrs T feels very strongly about this matter, but I would like to explain that this 
decision represents the final stage in our process and therefore there is no further recourse 
to appeal. That said, Mrs T is free to not accept my decision and pursue this matter 
elsewhere - such as court - if she wishes to do so.My final decision
I dont think BOS mis-sold the URCA and I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman