DRN-3592474
Summary and background to the complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to protect him from 
losing money to what he believes was an investment scam. 
The events that unfolded are well known to the parties, so I wont detail them again here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the key reasons behind my decision  our rules allow me to do so. 
In summary, Mr L used his NatWest account to pay WGM Services Ltd (otherwise known as 
Phoenix Markets) approximately £120,000 across a series of payments, under the 
agreement that these funds would be traded on its financial trading platform. However, the 
trades did not go as Mr L intended so he attempted to withdraw his deposits. In the end,     
Mr L successfully recovered all but £40,000 or so  and he believes NatWest should 
reimburse this outstanding amount. NatWest did not agree and offered no refund. 
Upon bringing the complaint to our service, one of our investigators concluded that NatWest 
should not be held liable for the loss Mr L incurred. Mr L disagrees, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats left for me to determine is whether NatWest ought to have prevented the disputed 
transactions from ever going ahead. Mr L cites that NatWest ought to have stopped the 
payments to WGM Services on the grounds that this activity was uncharacteristic compared 
to his typical spending habits, and the bank ought to have known how high risk this particular 
investment arena is. In his view, even if NatWest did not recognise WGM Services as 
fraudulent, it at least should have detected that investing with such merchants is widely 
known to result in problems with withdrawing money paid in, along with the high risk that 
trades will result in a loss. 
The relevant legislation, plus various principles of good practice, make it clear that banks do
have a duty to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams.
Also, as a firm regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), NatWest has a 
regulatory obligation to counter the risk that its accounts might be used to further financial 
crime. Still, this must be balanced with NatWests other duties. Theres a provision that 
delaying a payment instruction could lead to a breach of the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), which set requirements for the timing of payments such as the ones that Mr L 
made to WGM Services. 
Whats more, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not necessarily 
constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, there is a 
general prohibition that NatWest should not be providing investment advice pertaining to 
where a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money.
In other words, its possible that NatWest could have warned Mr L about the dangers of 
falling victim to investment fraudsters, without providing him investment advice. But these
obligations should only reasonably have been engaged under the PSRs if there were
sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee (i.e. WGM Services) was a fraudster; meaning 
that NatWest could have delayed the payments while concerns about it were discussed with 
Mr L.
Hence, why I would need to be satisfied that WGM Services was operating a scam when 
these payments were made in February and March 2021 in order to expect NatWest to have 
done anything further here. When determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk 
investment traders (such as CFD, Forex and cryptocurrency merchants) may use sales 
methods, or communication styles that can be seen to be unfair. Especially, when 
considering the financial losses incurred because of a disappointing return on an investment 
that might have been promoted. Even so, not all complaints to us involving such merchants 
are in fact a scam. While the ways and means of these businesses can be viewed as 
unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they amount to the high 
legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
The FCA and other powers regard the use of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and
preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, Ive paid particular attention to the official
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive
depended on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities
regulators. And Ive relied on the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to share alerts
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent.
These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no
such warnings about WGM Services at the time these payments were made. Rather, the 
evidence demonstrates that Mr Ls money went to a legitimate business, that was actually 
regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) at the material time. 
I accept that in May 2021 (i.e. some weeks after Mr Ls final payment), the FCA decided that 
WGM Services could no longer conduct regulated activities with, or in respect of, any client 
who is resident in the UK. As I understand it, this decision resulted in Mr L receiving around 
£80,000 back from the company in accordance with the FCAs direction to return all 
available balances to UK clients. 
The removal of temporary permission from a regulator does not necessarily equate to it 
deeming a firm as fraudulent  and there is no mention of fraudulent practices from WGM 
Services according to its record on the FCAs financial services register. No longer 
permitting the carrying out of regulated activity is not always as a direct result of fraud.  
In any case, the fact remains that WGM Services had the correct permissions when Mr L 
used his NatWest account to make deposits to it. Indeed, it is still regulated in other 
jurisdictions now. Suffice to say, illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of 
scamming consumers are highly unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory oversight or 
follow a regulators supervisory instructions to repay deposits. To that end, Im satisfied 
theres strong evidence WGM Services wasnt fraudulent or operating a scam when Mr L 
made these payments to it. And, crucially, this would have been the industry intelligence 
NatWest should have relied on during the period in question. 
Overall, Im not convinced WGM Services was the perpetrator of investment fraud  and this 
has been confirmed by authoritative sources covering cross-industry forums and various 
jurisdictions. While Ive paid due regard to the concerns Mr L has raised about the techniques it employed, I must follow the evidence and, ultimately, Mr L hasnt persuaded 
me otherwise.
As Ive concluded that the payments Mr L made to WGM services were not fraudulent, 
NatWests duty to intervene was not triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Mr Ls 
investments returning a loss, based on market performance. But as Ive explained, NatWest 
is not required to protect its consumers from the risk of financial loss due to investment 
choices, or bad bargains. Therefore, NatWest did not act unfairly by not undertaking further 
counter measures. Besides, on at least two occasions the bank did double check whether   
Mr L was comfortable with the course of payments he was making  and Mr L provided 
reassurances that he was happy to go ahead. 
Finally, for completeness, Ive considered whether NatWest should have recovered the 
remainder of Mr Ls payments. Having done so, its my judgment that the bank acted 
reasonably in its pursuit of reclaiming the £40,000 Mr L is out of pocket for. I cannot see that 
the requisite evidence was submitted by Mr L to permit a successful recovery claim.
In conclusion, I cannot safely hold NatWest liable for the contended payments, or Mr Ls loss 
that ensued. It follows that I do not require NatWest to do anything beyond what it has 
already for this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman