DRN-4172922
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader, trading as E. He complains that ClearBank Limited wont fully refund 
payments he didnt make.
ClearBank partners with Tide to provide its accounts. While Ive referred to both, ClearBank 
is ultimately responsible for this complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that 
Mr S isnt liable for payments he didnt authorise. So Ive firstly considered whether 
these disputed payments would be regarded as authorised under the PSRs.
The regulations explain that to consider a payment authorised, Mr S must have given 
its consent to it  and that consent must have been in the form, and in accordance 
with the procedure, agreed between it and ClearBank. 
ClearBank submit that because Mr S went through the steps in the Tide app to 
complete the payment, its authorised. But I dont think these authentication steps 
could fairly be described as the entire form and procedure for consenting to a 
payment. Afterall, a payment couldnt happen with these steps alone. So Ive instead 
looked at the necessary practical steps to make these debit card payments. It seems 
Mr S needed to enter his card details on the merchants website, and when 
prompted, follow the steps in his app to complete the payment. 
Here, because its accepted it was fraudsters who used Mr Ss card details on the 
website, Im not satisfied that Mr S went through all the necessary steps to consent 
to these disputed payments. 
Ive also considered whether Mr S could reasonably be said to have given permission 
for someone else to go through the form and procedure on his behalf. It seems 
fraudsters had stolen Mr Ss card details, and they tricked him into going through the 
steps on his app under the guise hed receive a refund for fraud. Given this 
deception, I dont think I could reasonably conclude he gave permission for someone 
else to consent to these payments. 
Taking this all into account, Im satisfied the disputed payments were unauthorised 
for the purposes of the PSRs.
Ive gone on to consider whether, in line with the PSRs, ClearBank has shown theres 
a reason Mr S shouldnt be refunded for these unauthorised payments. While its not 
explicitly stated a reason, its pointed to how Mr S went through steps in the app 
which, in part, caused the fraud to happen. So Ive looked at whether he failed with 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep his personalised 
security details safe  something which, if proven, would mean he wouldnt be 
entitled to a refund under the PSRs.
ClearBank has accepted this was a sophisticated scam. And I can see how Mr S was 
duped by the convincing email that appeared to come from PayPal. And why he 
called the number as instructed when he didnt recognise the payment. 
When he called, Mr S said they knew several pieces of personal and sensitive 
information about him  and how they told him his account, via Amazon, had been 
compromised and someone was making fraudulent payments. Mr S said this 
coincided with emails that appeared to come from Amazon for purchases he didnt 
recognise. 
Given their familiarity with his information and how it appeared to coincide with other 
sources of information, I can see why Mr S trusted he was genuinely speaking to 
PayPal and why he become concerned he was a victim of fraud. I think lots of 
people wouldve done in these deceptive circumstances. 
Mr S was told hed need to approve refunds for the fraudulent payments, which is 
why he went through the steps in his Tide app. I accept these refer to verifying and 
approving payments. But I can also appreciate how, in the heat of the moment, 
talking with someone he trusted, Mr S found it plausible hed need to do this for a 
refund  in the same way your PIN might be needed to approve a refund in shops. 
 ClearBank submit Mr S had used these steps before, so shouldve known it was for 
making payments rather than receiving them. But, like most people, he wasnt an 
expert in fraud  so I can see why it wasnt obvious to him that these steps couldnt 
also be used for other purposes.
Ive also considered ClearBanks points that Mr S couldve asked more questions and 
done more to verify what he was being told. Of course, its possible to criticise his 
actions with the benefit of hindsight. And I accept he might not have acted perfectly 
reasonably. But given the overall sophistication of the scam, and how it was 
designed to engineer its victims into acting hastily, I dont think this is enough to 
show he acted with very significant carelessness to conclude he failed with gross 
negligence.
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider he can be fairly held liable for 
these unauthorised payments and ClearBank must put things right  by refunding his 
remaining losses from the payments alongside 8% simple interest per year to 
compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss (trading as Es) complaint. ClearBank Limited 
must:Pay Mr S the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
already refunded. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman