DRN-3128205
The complaint
Miss E complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) allowed her to 
make purchases with her credit card which meant she exceeded her credit limit. She wants 
to ensure her credit rating is not adversely affected by this and to have the excess spending 
refunded. 
What happened
Miss E had an AMEX credit card with a credit limit of £1,700. However in June 2021 she 
made purchases with the card which took her over the credit limit by approximately £690. 
She complained to AMEX that the transactions which meant her credit limit was exceeded 
should have been refused, and that allowing them was irresponsible lending. She was 
concerned that it would also have a negative effect on her credit rating.
In its final response letter, AMEX didnt uphold her complaint. It said that when she applied 
for the credit card shed agreed to its terms and conditions, which stated she was 
responsible for keeping within the credit limit, and any over-limit spend may be required to 
be repaid immediately. 
Miss E didnt agree with this, so complained to our service where it was considered by an 
investigator, who didnt think her complaint should be upheld. He thought that AMEX had 
been reasonable in its attempts to alert Miss E that she was near to, and then had exceeded 
her credit limit. And it was fair for AMEX to refer to the terms and conditions of the account in 
that Miss E was responsible for managing her account, and as such it wouldnt be fair to ask 
AMEX to refund the excess transactions as Miss E had had the benefit of them. He did, 
however, think it would be reasonable for Miss E and AMEX to agree a repayment plan to 
bring her account back under the credit limit.
Miss E responded to say she thought it was unfair as AMEX had extended her line of credit 
beyond what it had deemed suitable, and had led her to go onto a debt management plan.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the investigator, in that I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
When Miss Es application for an AMEX card was accepted, she was sent and agreed to the 
terms and conditions of the account. And Ive seen a copy of these, and can see that they 
describe the credit limit as:
 the maximum amount that you can borrow on your account. 
They go on to say:
You should not go over the credit limit. If we allow a transaction that takes you over 
your limit, we may ask you to pay enough into the account to bring it back within the limit 
immediately.
Miss E had a credit limit of £1700. And this limit is printed on the statements for the account, 
along with a breakdown of the card transactions, the current balance, and the required 
minimum payment for each month. And I can see from her account notes, that Miss E 
applied to increase her credit limit to £2,200 at the beginning of June 2021, but this was 
declined. And AMEX has shown us that it sent text messages to Miss E when her spending 
came within £100 of her credit limit, and also when it was exceeded. And Miss E hasnt 
denied receiving these.
So Im satisfied that Miss E knew what her credit limit was, knew of her responsibility to 
ensure her spending did not exceed this limit, and was aware when it had done so. Im also 
satisfied that AMEX was allowed, within the terms and conditions of the account, to 
authorise transactions which would mean the credit limit is exceeded. 
So I dont think it would be fair to require AMEX to refund the spend Miss E made on the 
account in excess of the credit limit, as Im satisfied it is her responsibility to repay this. This 
is because she was aware of the fact that she was spending in excess of the limit, and she 
has benefitted from the purchases she made. But the terms of the account also allow AMEX 
to require the immediate full repayment of any excess spending, but I think it has been fair in 
not requiring Miss E to do this, and it was reasonable for it to agree a repayment plan. 
Im aware that Miss E doesnt want what has happened to negatively affect her credit score, 
and whilst I understand this, I havent seen any evidence that this has happened. But in any 
case, AMEX has a responsibility to accurately report everything that happens to Miss Es 
account to the credit reference agencies. And because I dont think it has acted unfairly, it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to require it to alter the reports it sends if they are accurate. 
Im glad to see Miss E has agreed a repayment plan to bring her level of credit down to 
within her credit limit, which should mean if there were any negative effect on her credit 
score, this would be kept to a minimum. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman