DRN-1467222
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as EGG) mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card.
 What happened
EGG was an internet based account. In December 2002 the policy was added to Miss Bs 
credit card account when she applied for the card online via the EGG website. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. Miss B told us her main concern is that as she 
didnt knowingly purchase or agree to PPI she couldnt have benefitted from it as she didn't 
know she had it.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think EGG made Miss B aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Miss B completed, she had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. So I think shed have known at the time that she couldve 
declined PPI if she hadnt wanted it. Its completely understandable that she mightve 
forgotten some of these details so long after the event. But, on balance, I find that Miss B 
wouldve seen that she had a choice about protecting her card repayments and it appears 
that she wanted to do so at the time. 
EGG didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
Its possible some of the information EGG gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, next to where Miss B was asked to decide about the PPI, the cover was 
broadly described, the cost was set out and there was information about the benefits PPI 
offered. I think Miss B couldve have benefitted from having the policy. 
Ive taken into account what Miss B has told us about her financial circumstances  including 
her sick pay arrangements at work. 
The policy wouldve protected her if shed lost her job as well as paying out if she was 
disabled or too sick to work. It wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay  and for longer than 
she couldve relied on her employer to pay her sick pay. So I think the PPI couldve given her 
a useful benefit at what mightve been a difficult time. Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
The PPI wouldve more than covered her EGG card monthly repayments and cleared her 
card balance if shed needed to claim for the full 12 months. 
So I can see why she mightve wanted to have PPI.  
Miss B was eligible for the policy. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it 
doesnt look as if those applied in Miss Bs case. So, I dont think having more information 
about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take it out. PPI provided 
Miss B with the protection broadly described on the website which shed indicated she was 
willing to pay for. 
I think EGG couldve explained the policy cost better than it did. But, the policy seems to 
have been affordable for Miss B when she took it out. And, looked at overall, given the 
benefits PPI offered Miss B, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still have taken out the policy. 
This means that, even though EGG mightnt have done everything it shouldve done, I dont 
find that Miss B lost out because of anything EGG did wrong. So it doesnt need to do 
anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman