DRN-3958276
The complaint
Ms A complains about the decision to decline her home insurance claim by her insurer Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
In December 2021 Ms A claimed to RSA as her boiler was malfunctioning and RSA sent out 
engineers. Unfortunately the engineers couldnt fix the boiler and told Ms not to use it. Ms A 
called RSA for help under her home insurance policy as she had no hot water or heating. 
RSAs agents attempted to diagnose the fault with the boiler, and Ms A obtained her own 
engineer to inspect the system. RSA said the problem was due to a build up of sulphate 
within the pipes and declined the claim in December 2021 because it said Ms As policy 
doesnt offer cover for the work required.  
Ms A said about a day was wasted while she was passed between insurer and broker and 
by the insurer closing her claim when it was unresolved. She said she hadnt seen the policy 
wording that RSA relied on to decline her claim as it hadnt sent her the current policy. She 
said this was relevant because it excludes damage to underground pipes caused by sulphur.
Ms A complained to RSA and said it should cover the cost of the repair work and pay her for 
the inconvenience she has suffered for having no hot water or heating for ten weeks. RSA 
confirmed that it didnt have liability for the claim under the policy, but offered Ms A £50 
compensation for its delays. 
Ms A was unhappy with RSAs response to her complaint and brought it to our service. She 
said the work to the gas pipes still hadnt been done. And she said that RSAs engineer had 
damaged her boilers pressure gauge. Ms A said that her boiler needed to be replaced at a 
cost of over £3,000 as confirmed by a gas engineer she had called out.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said it took time for 
RSA to look into the boiler problem and delays were unavoidable. She said the policy 
doesnt cover damage from gradual deterioration or from sulphate material and so RSAs 
decision on the claim was fair, and she said RSA had sent Ms A a copy of the policy in 2021. 
Ms A disagreed, saying she had no record of receiving RSAs letters and policy documents 
in 2021 and no reason to check if the policy had changed over the years. Later she said the 
letters from RSA were received but didnt contain policy wording. She said there were more 
than six calls including when the policy term was read to her, but we havent been provided 
with this important evidence. Ms A requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the events and decision on Ms As claim by RSA to see if it has acted 
in accordance with the terms of the policy and treated her fairly. Ms A has raised a separate 
complaint to RSA about damage to her boiler which she says was caused by its engineer. 
I can appreciate why this wasnt an obvious issue to resolve as the reason for the 
malfunctioning boiler was difficult to diagnose. However, the engineers decided that it was 
due to a build up of sulphate, and the claim was declined about 10 days after Ms As initial 
call. Ideally this would have been sooner, but I havent found that RSA caused unavoidable 
delays in its handling of Ms As claim.
I can see that RSA reviewed Ms As claim under the home emergency and home insurance 
cover within her policy. Ms A is unhappy her claim was declined following the engineers visit 
and her calls with RSA. I can understand her frustration as her boiler still wasnt working 
properly. But I think it needed an engineers visit to diagnose the fault and Ms A was then 
told of the reason and how this linked to her insurance policy. 
Ive considered RSAs decision to decline the claim. Ms As policy states that damage by 
gradual deterioration which has caused an installation to reach the end of its serviceable life 
is not included. And specifically that damage caused by sulphate reacting with any materials 
isnt covered.
Ms A said that the term relating to sulphate (the cause diagnosed by the engineers) isnt 
within the copy of the policy that was sent to her. Ms As copy of the policy is from 2011, and 
the term is contained within more recent versions of the policy. RSA said it sent Ms A up to 
date versions of the policy in February and July 2021 and it is available online. Ms A said 
these communications didnt include policy wording.
It seems curious to believe that a policy from 2011 would still be the same in 2021. Besides 
which RSA arent constrained by previous policy terms which change over time but by the 
policy in force when the claim occurred. This was available to Ms A online and carries the 
sulphate exclusion.
Notwithstanding Ms As lack of an up to date copy of the policy, her 2011 copy states there 
is a policy wide exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear. This is common to all home 
insurance policies with the intention of distinguishing an insurance policy covering specified 
perils, with a maintenance contract. The exclusion clause covers damage due to 
depreciation, repairs necessary in the normal course of maintenance, corrosion, rusting, 
frost or anything which happens gradually. Ive seen that the wear and tear exclusion is 
described in the documents sent to Ms A in 2021. 
I think the wear and tear exclusion throws a blanket over what has happened to Ms As 
boiler and what is required to put it right. I also think RSA was entitled to rely on the 
exclusion clause specific to the build up of sulphate, and this means I consider RSAs 
decline of Ms As claim to have been in accordance with the terms of the policy. 
We have recordings of six calls between Ms A and RSA from December 2021, but these 
dont include a call to which Ms A refers where the policy term was read to her word-for-
word. However, even if this took place the specific and overarching policy exclusions to 
which I have referred would preclude RSA from liability for her claim. 
The call recordings and the other information about Ms As claim dont change my view that 
RSA was acting in accordance with the policy to decline the claim and I have found that its 
decision has treated Ms A fairly. My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman