DRN-3775584
The complaint
Mr S complains about information Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) gave him after the 
car theyd supplied under a conditional sale agreement was declared an insurance write-off. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr S took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a car. 
This agreement was repayable over 49 months. But just over a year later the car was written 
off by the insurer after it was involved in an accident. 
Mr S was told the pay-out from the insurer was going to be around £6,000, which wasnt 
going to be enough to clear the amount he still owed under the finance agreement. He 
contacted Moneybarn to ask whether it would be possible for him to keep the car after the 
insurers pay-out, and to set up a payment plan to cover the remaining balance he owed.
Mr S says Moneybarn told him this would be possible, and that they confirmed this in an 
email. But he says they later told him they wouldnt hand over the car until hed settled the 
agreement in full. 
Frustrated by this situation, Mr S made a formal complaint. But Moneybarn said theyd 
explained to Mr S that he wouldnt be able to keep the salvage unless the agreement was 
settled. They said theyd provided the settlement figure to the insurer on multiple occasions, 
but they hadnt received payment. Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint 
to us.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but he didnt uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. The investigator said he could see that Moneybarn had advised Mr S that hed be 
able to repay the outstanding amount via a payment plan. But he said he hadnt seen any 
evidence that Moneybarn had told Mr S this would mean he could keep the car. The 
investigator said he couldnt ask Moneybarn to allow Mr S to keep the car unless they 
received full payment of the outstanding balance. 
Mr S disagreed. He said Moneybarn had sent him an email saying he could keep the car and 
repay the outstanding amount on a payment plan. He said they kept changing their response 
when he asked about this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss complaint is about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
look into Mr Ss concerns about Moneybarn.
I appreciate Mr S feels very strongly that he shouldnt have to give up a car that has great 
sentimental value to him, due to an accident that wasnt his fault. I can understand how 
upsetting this situation must be for him.  
But under a conditional sale agreement, the car is owned by the finance company until all 
the required payments have been made. Ive seen a copy of the agreement explanation 
document Moneybarn provided to Mr S during the application process, which explains this. It 
says:
You will not own the vehicle until all conditions of the agreement have been met, and in 
particular, the final payment has been made.
Ive seen evidence showing Mr S was required to tick a confirmation box and electronically 
sign this explanation document as part of the application process. So, Im satisfied 
Moneybarn had explained how and when Mr S could become the legal owner of the car. 
Ive looked into whether Moneybarn gave Mr S any incorrect or inconsistent advice after he 
told them about the accident. Moneybarn have provided a copy of their contact notes, which 
Ive reviewed. Ive seen that Mr S first asked Moneybarn about the possibility of keeping the 
car on 22 February 2022. Their records show Mr S was advised he wouldnt be able to keep 
the car unless the agreement was settled in full - and that he said he didnt have the money 
to be able to do this. 
Moneybarns records show that Mr S contacted them several times during March and April 
2022, asking whether theyd received the insurance pay-out and whether hed be able to 
keep the car. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr S was told hed be able to keep the car during 
any of these conversations.
The records show that Mr S called again in May 2022, saying the insurer hadnt received the 
early settlement figure from Moneybarn. I can appreciate how frustrating this situation must 
have been for Mr S. But Ive seen copies of emails Moneybarn sent to the insurer on 2 
March 2022, 22 March 2022 and 6 April 2022, providing the early settlement figure and 
details of how it should be paid. So, Im satisfied that Moneybarn werent responsible for the 
delay here. 
Ive seen that each one of these emails made it clear Moneybarn wouldnt allow Mr S to 
retain the salvage of the vehicle unless the agreement was settled in full. Again, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Moneybarn gave the impression Mr S would be able to keep the car 
without fully paying off the outstanding finance. 
Mr S has shown us a copy of an email Moneybarn sent him on 31 May 2022. He says this 
states that he could keep the car and repay the outstanding amount on a payment plan. 
Ive read this email carefully. It says:
 ...if the vehicle is declared a write off by the insurance company this means the vehicle 
will be considered salvage, if its declared salvage then we will not hold any finance 
interest in the vehicle as the insurance company would have technically bought the 
salvage. 
Therefore, it would be up to them what happens to the vehicle, and we would remove the 
HPI marker and then terminate the agreement meaning we CAN set up a payment plan 
for the shortfall in this situation.I find this email to make it clear that, if the insurer decided to write the car off, the insurer 
would own the salvage. And I think it makes it clear that it would then be for the insurer to 
decide what to do with the car. I see nothing here that states Mr S would be able to keep it.
I can see this email explains what Moneybarn could do to help Mr S pay off any shortfall, 
due to the insurance pay-out not fully covering the outstanding amount he owed under the 
finance agreement. It says Moneybarn would be able to set up a payment plan to enable him 
to pay this off. 
I do appreciate how distressing and frustrating this situation must have been for Mr S. But I 
dont find any of the information Moneybarn gave him to be incorrect or inconsistent. So, Im 
not persuaded that theyve done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman