DRN-2295050
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs S complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc lost cheques that Mrs S paid 
into their account. Mrs S brings this complaint on behalf of them both.
What happened
Mrs S paid in three cheques totalling £30,300 over the counter at a local business which 
accepts payments on behalf of RBS. She said that most of this money was made up of two 
large cheques which were needed urgently, to help with a very distressing family 
emergency. But all three of the cheques were processed incorrectly. One bounced, and two 
were lost in the system.
Mrs S said that she did a huge amount to try to trace these cheques, but no one was helping 
her. She said this made an already distressing time much more difficult for her, and she 
couldnt believe that no one would help. She said she just ended up repeating herself time 
and again. Shes since found out that no notes were made when she rang. 
Mrs Ss family member, who wrote the cheque that went missing, had complained, and her 
bank said that the problem was RBSs fault. It had credited the wrong account. 
Mrs S said that there were three cheques paid in on 15 October 2019. Two were for large 
sums, of £18,673.76 and £11,326.24, from her relative, and a third was for a much smaller 
amount, £300 from an insurance company. The first cheque had been post-dated, and 
shouldnt have been paid in. It bounced, because the money to cover this cheque wasnt yet 
in Mrs Ss relatives account. This cheque was then cancelled and reissued by the payer. 
The replacement cheque credited Mrs Ss account on the same day it was deposited.
The money for the second large cheque left Mrs Ss relatives account on 18 October, and 
the money for the smaller cheque was taken from the payers account, but neither amount 
reached Mrs Ss account. When Mrs S first complained, she was told to wait another week. 
Mrs S started trying to trace this missing money in earnest on 25 October. 
Mrs S has listed for us the extensive efforts she made to trace this money. She has told us 
she was repeatedly just referred back to customer services. 
Mrs S was also told that RBS couldnt find the money, but the money was eventually located 
on 26 November. The larger amount was then returned to her relative on 4 December 2019. 
Mrs S said that although her insurance company could tell where the smaller cheque had 
gone, RBS didnt attempt to recover that. It has just paid her £300 in compensation instead. 
Mrs S said she wasnt getting any support from RBS. Shes told us that she found this a 
deeply frustrating and stressful process.
RBS said that the two cheques which were misplaced had been applied to the wrong 
account in error. It said that was its mistake. It said it was sorry that details of these two 
missing cheques werent recorded when Mrs S called. 
RBS waived a £6 overdraft fee, paid Mrs S £300 for the smaller missing cheque, and offered 
£250 in compensation for the time and trouble this problem caused Mrs S. RBS felt this was 
enough to make up for what had gone wrong.
Mrs S turned that down. She brought her complaint to us. She thought RBS should pay her 
the £30,000 that it seemed happy for her to lose.
RBS then said to us that it hadnt actually made the original error. That was made by the 
business that accepted the cheque. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said Mrs S had apparently 
provided the cheque details on numerous occasions to start a trace on the missing money. 
But our investigator couldnt see that notes had been made after Mrs Ss calls.
Our investigator said that she could understand the impact this problem wouldve had when 
Mrs S was already going through a very difficult time. She didnt think that the offer of £250 
made to Mrs S was enough to make up for what had gone wrong, and so she suggested 
RBS should increase that to £400. 
RBS agreed, but Mrs S didnt. She wanted to know how wed arrived at the figure we 
suggested. She said it compared unfavourably with contractual penalties her firm would 
incur if it made a mistake. She said she felt insulted that what she had gone through was 
only worth £400, and she still felt that RBS should pay her the money that it was happy for 
her to lose. 
Mrs S wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I should start by saying that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask RBS to 
pay £30,000 for this complaint. I know Mrs S had a very unpleasant experience. But she 
didnt lose this amount of money. Mrs S says we should be making RBS pay a penalty, but 
our service doesnt make awards to penalise businesses. Its not that we choose not to do 
this, its that we cant. I can only make an award to reflect the impact this has had on Mrs S. 
And an award of the scale that Mrs S suggests would be quite inconsistent with other 
awards our service has made. 
Although RBS may not have made the original mistake which led to this money going astray, 
I think it ought to have been able to trace this money rather faster than it did. RBS hasnt 
explained why this took so long. And its clear that Mrs S, who was already dealing with 
extremely difficult family circumstances, was caused additional stress because a large 
amount of money, earmarked to help with those difficult circumstances, was missing for six 
weeks. 
Ive listened to phone calls Mrs S had with RBS. I can hear that shes asked for details which 
she says she has already repeatedly given, and the call handler confirms that no notes have 
previously been made. 
Mrs S gave the same details of her missing large cheque on a call on 25 November, to 
someone who said those details simply hadnt been noted down before. That person 
persisted in trying to help Mrs S, and on 26 November, the money was found. This makes 
me think that this issue could have been resolved much more quickly for Mrs S and indeed, 
RBS call handler has confirmed that.
RBS knew about the family circumstances Mrs S was experiencing. And Mrs S has told us 
this affected her health. 
Its clear that RBS has provided her with poor service. So I do think RBS should pay Mrs S 
some compensation.
But when Im thinking about the right amount in this case, I can only take account of what 
actually happened. As Ive said, £30,000 wasnt lost. I know Mrs S was worried that the 
money would be lost, so I can take that worry into account. However, the money from the 
larger cheque was eventually located, and RBS gave Mrs S the money from the smaller 
cheque. She did get all the money she was expecting, eventually. 
I know Mrs S wanted much more than our investigator suggested for this complaint. I hope 
that Mrs S will understand why Im not awarding the amount she has proposed.
Our investigator suggested an amount of £400 in compensation. I know Mrs S is unlikely to 
agree with this, but I do think that amount would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. And £400 is the amount I wouldve suggested in this case if our investigator 
hadnt already done so. So thats what Ill award.My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must pay Mr P and Mrs S £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman