DRN-4520064
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc behaved unreasonably 
when it restricted their account.
The complaint is brought on Ss behalf by one of the partners, Mr T. He is represented 
throughout by Mrs W.
What happened
S held a business account with Barclays. 
S told us:
In November 2021, they contacted Barclays to say that one of their partners had 
passed away.
On 30 March 2022, without warning their account was restricted and payments  
including direct debits were suspended.
They contacted Barclays immediately and were told that the restriction would be 
removed within 24 hours so their payments could be made as planned. However, this 
didnt happen, so they had to make all their payments manually and then reinstate 
the direct debits again.
They made a complaint to Barclays, and it took five months for the bank to respond 
which was unreasonable.
Barclays said it had sent letters to the partnership, but these hadnt been received. If 
the bank hadnt received a response from these letters, it should have contacted 
them in a different way rather than restricting their account.
Barclays had offered them £200 compensation because their direct debits hadnt 
been paid as it had said they would be, but they didnt think this was enough for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd been caused.  
Barclays told us: 
It had sent three letters to S between November 2021 and February 2022 requesting 
information. The letter of 25 February 2022 said that if S didnt provide the requested 
information by 28 March 2022, their account would be restricted.
On 30 March 2022, it restricted Ss account and sent them a letter saying that all 
payments had been suspended. 
S contacted it on 31 March 2022 to request the restriction was removed so they 
could make their payments. The call handler gave S incorrect information and said 
that the restrictions would be removed within 24 hours so their payments could be 
made, which wasnt true. 
It accepted it had given S incorrect information on this call and offered £200 
compensation. However, it was satisfied that the account had been restricted 
correctly.
Our investigator thought Barclays offer of £200 compensation for giving S insufficient 
information on when the account restriction would be lifted was fair. He thought that Barclays 
had contacted S to request information, and then given the partners sufficient notice that 
their account would be restricted if this wasnt provided. So, he didnt think the bank had 
done anything wrong when it had restricted the account. 
S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Im sorry to disappoint S, but theres not much 
more that I can add to what our investigator has already said. S says that their account was 
unfairly restricted in March 2022 without warning. However, Im not persuaded thats the 
case. Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly when it restricted Ss account, and that it did 
give S appropriate notice of that restriction. 
Barclays has legal and regulatory obligations to ensure that it has sufficient knowledge of its 
customers. Even if a customer had an existing relationship with the bank, customer 
circumstances can and do change (which unfortunately for S was the cause of its initial 
contact with the bank) so Barclays needs to check that the information it holds for its 
customer is correct. In this case, it was whether the partnership would continue. It is a 
commercial decision which Barclays is able to make on how often it undertakes these 
checks and what information (within reason) it needs to comply with its obligations. 
S says that it didnt receive the letters Barclays sent to it. However, both S and Barclays 
have provided us with a copy of all the letters which show they were sent to Ss address. 
The bank has also given us copies of their case notes showing when these were sent and by 
the various staff members. So, Im satisfied that these were sent by Barclays. I recognise S 
says that if the bank didnt receive a response, it should have contacted them in an 
alternative way. I also acknowledge that S said theyd had a meeting with their Barclays 
Relationship Manager in January 2022, who also wasnt aware of the request. However, 
Barclays isnt obligated to contact customers in an alternative way, and it has told us there is 
no record of a meeting taking place between S and their Relationship Manager around that 
time. 
However, even I accept that this meeting did take place, whilst I understand Ss frustration 
here, it is a commercial decision the bank is able to make on how it communicates both with 
customers and internally. In this case, the bank sent S letters, which were not returned as 
undelivered so in line with the account terms, it had fulfilled its obligations to contact S. So, I 
dont think Barclays did anything wrong here. 
I can see that S called Barclays on 31 March 2022 and was given incorrect information 
about the restriction being removed within 24 hours so they could make their regular 
payments. I acknowledge that S says it took a significant time for them to manually make 
those payments, and this distress this caused due to the circumstances which caused the restriction. However, I think S would always have had to make manual payments because of 
the account restriction. And as I think it was reasonable for the bank to restrict Ss account 
when it didnt receive the requested information, it follows that I dont think compensation is 
warranted for the resultant actions. Ive also seen Ss account history which shows that their 
account was reinstated within 48 hours of this phone call. Therefore, I think the £200 
compensation offered by Barclays due to the incorrect information being provided on the call 
was sufficient.  
S told us they were unhappy because it took Barclays five months to respond to their 
complaint. Im sorry to disappoint S, but complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and 
therefore I cant make a finding on whether this was an unreasonable timeframe for the bank 
to respond. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman