DRN-2237831
The complaint
Mr G says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr G bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card. He applied for 
the credit card and PPI policy through the post. 
At the time, Mr G was employed as a production planner. He has told us he was entitled to 
at least six months full sick pay, Death-in-Service and redundancy payments. Mr G has said 
he had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided cover for accident, sickness, and unemployment, together with life cover 
 subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Gs credit card 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost 60p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract interest. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in July 
2007.
Mr Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Gs representative says:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on handling PPI 
complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr G wouldnt have taken out the 
policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Gs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the most 
common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a successful 
claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low claims ratio. The 
common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide should have told Mr G about the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr G and the impact they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr G received was misleading. These policies were promoted as providing 
peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of the cover 
meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
This sale took place in 2000 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2007. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/Direct Mail 
and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Gs case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Building Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman 
was required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mr Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Mr G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr G, I must 
then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr G suffered loss or damage and what I 
consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr G and 
Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr G know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the credit card agreement Mr G signed in 2000. I can see 
that hes ticked in the box provided to show he wanted the PPI cover. Theres another box 
he could have ticked if he didnt want it. 
So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr G knew the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. did Nationwide provide advice?
Nationwide says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr G disagrees.   Looking at what 
happened when Nationwide sold Mr G the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I 
say this because this was a postal application and theres nothing to suggest from what Ive 
seen that Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr G.
This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr G. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr G to make an informed 
choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Nationwide has provided us with Mr Gs application form  showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also provided a copy of the paperwork it says he would have received, 
including the policys terms and conditions. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Mr G at the time, I dont think Nationwide gave 
Mr G all the information he fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against unemployment, accident and sickness. 
The information provided would have given Mr G a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was Nationwides responsibility to draw to Mr Gs attention the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide did enough to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost 
of the policy was made clear to Mr G, including the need to maintain premiums during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, I cant see that Nationwide 
adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations 
and exclusions. 
So I dont think Nationwide gave Mr G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr Gs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Gs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have explained the 
low claims ratio  what Mr Gs representative considers to be poor value  and the fact that 
much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr G about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr G has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide ought to have done either. 
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr G? To what extent did Mr G suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr G. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr G 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr G 
would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr G says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr G had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr G chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr G thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr G has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr G ought reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance. But I 
accept that Nationwide didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So, while Mr G didnt 
know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr G thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr G knew about or ought to 
have known about before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr G wasnt a 
permanent employee.I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr G pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy 
was not as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr G from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to him should 
the insured risks have become a reality. 
Although Mr G says he had a medical condition when the PPI was taken out and the policy 
wouldnt have provided cover had he needed time off work because of this condition, I dont 
think better information about this exclusion would have put him off agreeing to it. I say this 
because Mr G says he first suffered from this condition some 20 years before the PPI sale 
date and it seems to have been well controlled  only causing him to take a month of work 
during this time. And the policy would have still provided him with cover for all other medical 
conditions which may have caused him to take time off work or if he was made redundant. 
So I still think he would have thought the policy gave him valuable cover.
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr G would have been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr G would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to 
support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr G would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment benefits. And in those circumstances, I 
consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in any event.  
Mr Gs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to conclude there 
were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr G would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Gs 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr G found himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr G believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr G in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should pay Mr G compensation, as that would put 
him in a better position than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mr G thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide gave Mr G, in 
the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have met in 2000 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Gs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr G and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr G in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman