DRN-3348708
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the settlement offer made by Society of Lloyds for 
rectification repairs following a claim they made under their home and buildings insurance 
policy. 
All reference to the insurer Lloyds in my decision include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B made a claim to Lloyds following storm damage to their home in November 
2018 which caused significant damage to their roof and to the inside of their home due to 
water ingress. I dont intend to repeat the timeline in the same level of detail, as it is well 
known to both parties. In summary repairs and redecoration were carried out in 2019 and 
Lloyds arranged alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs B for a period of four months. 
In July 2019 Mr and Mrs B had moved back in but werent satisfied with the standard of 
repairs and there was communication back and forth between Mr and Mrs B and the 
contractor. The issues werent resolved and the relationship between the contractor and Mr 
and Mrs B broke down. 
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs B complained to Lloyds and Lloyds replied in April 2020. This 
complaint has been dealt with separately by this service. Lloyds agreed to appoint a loss 
adjuster (LA) to inspect Mr and Mrs Bs home. It paid Mr and Mrs B £350 compensation.
There was further back and forth  and some delay in 2020 due to the global pandemic. Mr 
and Mrs B said they were shielding  but by October 2020 Mr and Mrs B raised their 
concerns as to the conditions they were living in caused by damp and mould. 
In October 2020 Lloyds appointed a new LA to assess all the outstanding issues. But this 
didnt happen and in November 2020 Lloyds agreed for Mr and Mrs B to obtain a quote from 
their preferred contractor for the rectification works. Mr and Mrs B provided an estimate for 
£29,950.
On review, Lloyds rejected the quote provided. A contractor on Lloyds behalf said there was 
no evidence damp damage in a bathroom came from a leak which resulted in damage to the 
ceiling and rooms below, but from the way the shower was being used. The contractor said 
the roof damage was due to wear and tear. 
Mr and Mrs B were very unhappy with Lloyds response and so it agreed to appoint a 
contractor to visit the home in February 2021. They recommended further investigations as 
they couldnt be sure as to the cause of damage. 
In March 2021 it was confirmed by another contractor that the ventilation system in the 
bathroom hadnt been properly installed by Lloyds appointed contractor. 
A chartered surveyor on behalf of Lloyds visited Mr and Mrs Bs home and reviewed the 
estimate for £29,950. The surveyor said that some of the works in the estimate included 
unrelated repairs. They said a fairer sum was £10,450 which Mr and Mrs B rejected. Lloyds 
increased its final settlement offer to £12,150.
Mr and Mrs B said they want Lloyds to meet the estimate in full. Lloyds say it has carefully 
and properly assessed the estimate and its offer is fair and reasonable. 
Lloyds accepted that Mr and Mrs B endured living in unhealthy conditions for two years and 
rectification repairs should have been properly carried out in 2019 when there was the 
opportunity to do so. It also accepted that  while there were some delays in 2020 due to the 
pandemic - the contractors view on the repairs in December 2020 wasnt correct and Mr and 
Mrs B fought hard to have their concerns listened to in the months after this. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused over a two-year period, Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs 
B £750 compensation. This was in addition to the £350 paid under their previous complaint.
Mr and Mrs B asked us to look at their complaint. They didnt think the settlement offer of 
£12,150 was fair. 
Our Investigator recommended Lloyds should look to cover the total costs to have the 
previous works rectified and completed to a good standard. He was reluctant to put a figure 
on the repairs as he was mindful of the ever-increasing costs. But he was also mindful that 
any work which isnt related to the claim shouldnt be covered.
The Investigator thought the compensation amount should be increased to £1,000 for the 
trouble and upset which has been caused to Mr and Mrs B by the ongoing issues.
Both parties disagreed with the Investigators view. Mrs B said the compensation doesnt 
cover their losses. She listed damage to contents and loss of earnings from Mr Bs time off 
work. Mrs B explained that the costs to carry out the repairs are rising as time goes on.
Lloyds said it believes the compensation of £750 it has paid is fair. It says it had the 
estimate provided by Mr and Mrs B properly assessed by an independent chartered surveyor 
and its satisfied its settlement offer is fair to reflect the rectification repairs under the original 
claim in 2018. 
So as both parties disagree the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems clear that Mr and Mrs B have been put to significant distress and inconvenience in 
having their concerns about the original repairs resolved under this claim. I appreciate that 
some of the time taken to resolve the claim was due to the pandemic. However, even 
allowing for six months between April and October 2020  the fact is Mr and Mrs B lived in 
conditions in their home where water damage continued for over two years after they made 
their claim in November 2018. It wasnt until March 2021 when it was acknowledged that the 
bathroom ventilation hadnt been properly installed in 2019. 
Ive looked at the builders estimate for repairs in April 2021 for £29,950. This includes 
significant roof work with scaffolding which comes to over £11,000. It also includes damp 
proofing of internal walls totalling £6,500. The surveyor who attended Mr and Mrs Bs 
property in May 2021 assessed the estimate. They said the damp proofing was not insured 
works. At the beginning of the surveyors report they explain that they are not privy to the contractor 
who carried out the works or the extent of the works. Ive also taken into account that this 
inspection took place two and half years after the original event in November 2018. 
The surveyor provides a detailed explanation of the roof and its condition. They said the 
following key comments in relation to the roof:
Past repairs have been carried out to the roof coverings (slates and ridges) with one 
ridge tile to the front gable lower not correctly bedded and pointed to provide the 
weathering required at this junction.
The roof is performing with defects noted, but these are due to the age of the roof 
coverings, apart from the workmanship issues of the replacement roof ridge tile..
Ive looked at the original assessor report upon which Lloyds accepted Mr and Mrs Bs claim 
for storm damage. This sets out significant damage to the roof ridge and slates. The report 
read:
Owing to the dislodged slates on the front and rear elevations of the roof, the 
property was open to the elements and very heavy rainfall following the high winds 
caused significant amounts of water to penetrate the property.
We know that Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with the works carried out to the roof and that 
water continued to ingress into the property. And while the surveyor in May 2021 reported 
poor repairs to the roof, I cannot see any amount in the breakdown of the settlement offer of 
£12,150 that relates to roof rectification repairs. 
An insurer should make sure that repairs completed under a claim are effective and long 
lasting. I dont think Lloyds is responsible for carrying out repairs to the roof that have been 
caused by wear and tear. But Im also aware of the length of time that has passed and that 
Mr and Mrs B still havent had their roof properly repaired from the storm damage. 
So I agree with the Investigators recommendation. I think Lloyds should look to cover the 
costs of all rectification repairs including to the roof caused by storm damage. 
And given the length of time and Mr and Mrs Bs efforts in trying to get their complaint 
resolved while living in unhealthy conditions, I think Lloyds should increase the 
compensation it pays from £750 to £1,000 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
This isnt an award to cover damage to contents or loss of earnings as it is anticipated that 
policyholders will need to take some time off work in pursuit of their claim. But Ive taken into 
account the overall impact the poor handling of this claim has had on Mr and Mrs B. 
Mr and Mrs B will need to raise a new complaint if they are unhappy with the way the 
contents part of their claim has been dealt with.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Society of Lloyds to do the following:
 Cover the costs of all rectification repairs including the roof from the original storm 
damage, ensuring repairs are effective and long lasting.  Increase the compensation it pays Mr and Mrs B from £750 to £1,000 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Society of Lloyds must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mr and 
Mrs B accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman