DRN-3517008
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent to him irresponsibly when it provided
him with credit limits.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision about this complaint on 11 May 2022. I provisionally upheld 
the complaint. Heres what I said:
What happened
In October 2013, Mr B applied for a credit card with an initial limit of £250. After this, there
were four credit limit increases applied to the credit card account*:
March 2014  increase to £600
June 2014  increase to £1500
May 2016  increase to £2400
February 2017  increase to £3300
*The dates of the increases have been taken from NewDays data.
During this time, Mr B has explained he faced several difficulties  including a gambling
addiction as well as issues repaying different debts hed incurred.
Mr B contacted NewDay in March 2021 to complain that the original lending of the credit
card and subsequent credit limit increases shouldnt have been provided to him. He felt
particularly strongly on the credit limit increases as he explained by this point there were
enough signs from how the account was being handled to indicate that he was struggling to
maintain repayments on the card. This was in addition to the regular payments he was
making for gambling purposes which he feels shouldve raised concerns with NewDay.
NewDay acknowledged Mr Bs complaint and provided its final response. It didnt agree it
had lent to him irresponsibly. It explained that several checks were carried out when the
credit card had been applied for.
It also said that it regularly reviewed its customers accounts and each time the credit limit
was increased, it carried out a series of further checks  including, but not limited to things
such as instances of late or missed payments, how the credit limit was utilised and any
payday loan history. Based on these factors, NewDay said it was satisfied the credit limits
were provided correctly and adequate checks were carried out to ensure they would be
affordable.
It also explained it couldnt see anything to suggest it had been made aware of the difficulties
Mr B said hed been facing before the credit limit increases. However, it did acknowledge it
was contacted by Mr B in November 2017. And at this point, an income and expenditure
assessment was completed by Mr B and a repayment plan was agreed. Unhappy with
NewDays response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
As part of its submission  NewDay explained it wouldnt consent to our service considering
the original account opening and the first two credit limit increases. This was because these
events took place more than six years before Mr B first raised his complaint. So, it
considered these events to be outside of our services jurisdiction.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint. He agreed with NewDay that our service
couldnt consider the original account opening as well as the first two credit limit increases.
This was due to these events taking place more than six years after Mr B raised his
complaint with our service. He was also satisfied more than three years had passed since Mr
B ought reasonably to have been aware, he had cause to complain about the credit card and
limit increases being unaffordable.
However, our investigator thought our service could consider the remaining credit limit
increases that were assigned to him in May 2016 and February 2017.
For the May 2016 increase, our investigator was satisfied NewDay had carried out
proportionate checks and that these didnt raise any obvious concerns. He did acknowledge
thered been a single late payment and that the credit limit had been exceeded twice during
the 12 months leading up to this increase. He also identified that thered been some cash
advance transactions on the account during the same timeframe. But he didnt think these
were enough to raise concerns when considered against the rest of the information provided
from the checks NewDay had carried out. So, our investigator didnt think NewDay was
wrong to approve this increase.
However, when addressing the February 2017 increase, our investigator felt it shouldve
been apparent to NewDay that Mr Bs situation was worsening. He highlighted a series of
over limit fees which had started to be added to the account as one example. As a result, he
didnt think this credit limit was affordable or sustainable to Mr B.
This led our investigator recommending NewDay should refund any interest or charges
applied to the account since February 2017. He also recommended NewDay should remove
any adverse information it had recorded on Mr Bs credit file since this date as well.
NewDay accepted the investigators view. But Mr B disagreed with the conclusions that
werent in his favour in relation to the May 2016 credit limit increase.
In his response, Mr B accepted that our service couldnt consider the original account
opening and first two credit limit increases. However, he believed that NewDay should be
responsible for the May 2016 increase. He highlighted several points in the year or so
leading up to the increase which he felt showed that he was struggling to keep on top of the
account and contradicted what our investigator had said. This included more fees applied for
things such as late payments or going over the credit limit. He also commented that it
shouldve been very clear that he was using the account for lots of gambling transactions.
He also thought the cash advance transactions were linked to gambling transactions and
so this wouldve been another indicator to show that he was having problems with the
account. He also pointed out that he was having to take out and repay a series of payday
loans which wouldve been apparent if NewDay had asked to see copies of his bank
statements.
Mr B was also concerned that the credit card account had been was sold to a third party in
2018 who had since applied a default against him. He considered a fair outcome would be
to remove any adverse information recorded by the third party and for NewDay to take back
the account and put him in the position he wouldve been had the May 2016 increase not
taken place. Our investigator asked NewDay to clarify the status of the account when it wassold to the third party. It responded to confirm the account hadnt been defaulted at the time
it was sold and that it had been defaulted by the third-party owner.
Mr B requested his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman  so the complaint has now
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the purposes of clarity, I wont be considering the approval of the credit card or the credit
limit increases that took place in March and June 2014. I say this because I dont believe I
have the power to look at those as the complaint about them was brought too late, under the
time limits I must apply. I have written to Mr B separately about this and based on my
communications with him, he appears to have accepted this position. So, this decision will
only be addressing the last two credit limits.
On the last credit limit increase, NewDay has accepted it shouldnt have provided this and
its accepted the investigators recommendations about this. So, I wont be commenting on
this credit limit any further beyond referencing it in the redress I intend to award below. So,
Ill now turn my attention to the credit limit increase that took place in May 2016. As this
appears to be the outstanding issue to be decided.
There are industry rules and best practice guidelines which apply to credit limit increases for
credit cards. In line with these, Id expect NewDay to have assessed Mr Bs creditworthiness
and considered how his financial situation might be adversely affected before increasing his
credit limit to the figure it had in mind. It needed to carry out checks which were
proportionate to things like the amount of credit being offered, what it already knew about Mr
B and the information he had provided about his financial situation. But there isnt a specific
set of checks which NewDay had to do.
On this occasion, the credit limit increase to £2,400 was the third increase in roughly two
years. The limit had increased by over £2,000 during this time (almost ten times the original
amount lent).
Despite these increases, there doesnt appear to have been any updated checks on Mr Bs
personal circumstances. I understand NewDay has shown theyd considered how Mr B had
handled the account up to the point of the £2,400 increase. But given how much the limit
was increasing by, I think it needed to ensure Mr B was going to be able to sustainably
handle the increase. And based on the data that NewDay relied on to approve the limit
increase, Im persuaded this also ought to have raised some concerns which meant it
wouldve been reasonable for it to have carried out further checks.
In the lead up to the limit increase, the account balance remained consistently very close
(and sometimes exceeded) the £1,500 limit in place at the time. Mr B incurred some over
limit fees in the year leading up to the credit limit increase, suggesting he may be having
difficulty managing the limit he had. The data also showed minimal contractual payments
were typically being made, as well as the fact Mr B had accrued consumer credit related
debts totalling over £12,000. These factors alone indicated that Mr B was most likely going
to maximise any increased limit straight away (which is what ended up happening). So, I
think a prudent lender NewDay ought to have taken further steps to ensure Mr B was
capable of potentially taking on this further debt and being able to manage it and ultimately
repay this sustainably.As previously mentioned, there werent any specific set of checks NewDay had to do. But
for the reasons above, I think it wouldve been reasonable on this occasion for it to have
investigated Mr Bs financial situation. One of the things it could have done was to request
and review his bank statements in the months leading up to the limit increase. This wouldve
helped to provide a snapshot of how Mr B was managing his other finances, alongside being
able to identify the level of income and outgoings for him  something it hadnt done since
the credit card account was first provided in October 2013.
Ive considered what these bank statements wouldve shown. Whilst it appears Mr B was
receiving a consistent income, its also clear that in each month, his balance rapidly dropped
and eventually went into an overdrawn balance. In addition to this, there were also payments
to a payday loan provider as well as consistent payments for gambling. Overall, Im satisfied
the statements show Mr B wasnt best placed to take on and maintain a higher level of
borrowing with the credit card. I think if in possession of this information, NewDay wouldve
realised there was a risk Mr B wouldnt be able to sustainably repay his credit card and this
would cause him to suffer adverse financial consequences.
Therefore, Im satisfied had NewDay taken this further proportionate step, I dont think it
wouldve gone ahead with the increased limit and so ultimately this lending and the last
credit limit increase (which its already accepted responsibility for) werent fair in the
circumstances. So, its only right, NewDay should take steps to put things right.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd
trading as Aqua to do the following:
- Rework the account so that all charges and interest applied to the account after May 
2016 are refunded.
- If, after the refund there remains an outstanding capital balance, NewDay should
work with Mr B to establish an affordable repayment plan. If there is a positive
balance this should be paid to Mr B along with 8% simple interest* applied from
the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
- Remove any adverse information recorded about this account from May 2016.
- As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out
above is carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting
the tax.
I had responses from both parties. These were the main points. 
NewDay responded to seek clarification on the redress section relating to the refund of 
interest. It said, shouldnt this be on the increased balance over and above £1500. The 
request to remove all interest wasnt consistent with other views for complaints of this nature.
Mr B also responded. In his response he said he accepted my provisional findings in relation 
to both credit limit increases. But said my provisional decision had said that NewDay should 
rework the account so that all charges and interest applied to the account after May 2016 
are refunded . But the credit limit of £2,400 was already in place during May. So, he didnt 
want to lose out on some of the redress. He also wanted clarification on what charges and 
fees included. He believed this should include transaction fees he was charged, as he 
wouldnt have incurred those if he hadnt been able to use more credit. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The principal amount lent must be repaid as Mr B had the benefit of that money.  But in 
accordance with our standard redress where Im upholding a complaint about irresponsible 
lending the account must be reworked so that all charges and interest are refunded on 
balances over £1500 (the applicable amount here). As this recognises that the credit limit 
shouldn't have gone above £1500. It's the associated cost (interest, fees and charges) on 
the additional lending above £1500 which is relevant to the redress. My apologies that my 
original wording didn't reflect this. I asked the investigator to go back to NewDay and confirm 
that its point was correct on what the rework should apply to. 
I also contacted Mr B about this situation so that he was aware of what NewDay had said. 
And I explained that there was a correction to my provisional decision on the redress. After 
seeking some further clarification from me, he understood this. 
In the absence of anything else disagreeing with my provisional decision, I remain of the 
view that Mr B was treated unfairly when he was given credit limits of £2400 and £3300. And 
its only right that NewDay should take steps to put things right. When it comes to working 
out the redress it should be noted that charges and fees should also include transaction fees 
on balances above £1500, as its an associated cost of having the use of the additional 
lending. 
This concludes matters and I hope Mr B is able to move forwards from this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd
trading as Aqua to do the following:
- Rework the account removing all charges, fees,
and interest that have been applied to balances above £1500. And provide a written 
breakdown to Mr B.
- If, after the refund there remains an outstanding capital balance, NewDay Ltd should
work with Mr B to establish an affordable repayment plan. If there is a positive
balance this should be paid to Mr B along with 8% simple interest* applied from
the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
- Remove any adverse information recorded about this account in relation to balances 
above £1500, including the default. 
- As NewDay Ltd has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out
above is carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting
the tax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman