DRN-3870117
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is refusing to refund him the amount he lost 
as the result of a scam. 
Mr H is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr H 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr H was searching online and found an advertisement about investments in 
cryptocurrency. The advertisement explained that people were making a lot of money by 
investing.
Interested in the investment opportunity, Mr H clicked on the link and was directed to the 
Dino Markets (X) website. The website looked very professional, and Mr H was convinced it 
was a legitimate business. Mr H setup a dummy account and was given login details to a 
professional looking platform. This further persuaded Mr H that it was genuine.
Shortly after setting up the dummy account Mr H received a call from X. X explained the 
process of making an investment and persuaded Mr H to invest with it. As directed by X, Mr 
H downloaded the screensharing application AnyDesk and was guided though the trading 
process.
Mr H could see he was making a profit on the investment he was making which made him 
feel confident to invest more.
Mr H made the following payments into the scam:
Date Payee Amount Payment Method
4 May 2021 All Prime Pay £1,003.70 Debit Card
17 May 2021 Binance £5,000.00 Debit Card
27 May 2021 Binance £5,000.00 Debit Card
27 May 2021 Binance £5,000.00 Debit Card
28 May 2021 Binance £5,000.00 Debit Card
When Mr H decided he wanted to make a withdrawal he was passed around to several 
departments and asked to make further payments before a withdrawal could be processed. 
At this stage Mr H realised he had fallen victim to a scam.
Mr H has not been able to recover any of the payments he made into the scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr H 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr H has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr H and HSBC sets out what happened clearly. What is in dispute is whether 
HSBC should refund the funds Mr H lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr H made
Mr H made the payments into the scam via his debit card. When a customer makes a 
payment via debit card the only recovery method HSBC has is to request a chargeback.
HSBC was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr H made in relation to this 
scam to All Prime Pay and Binance.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr H was dealing with the scammer, which was the business that instigated the scam. But 
Mr H didnt make the debit card payments to the scammer directly, he paid separate 
cryptocurrency exchanges (All Prime Pay and Binance) This is important because HSBC 
was only able to process chargeback claims against the merchants he paid, not another 
party.
The service provided by All Prime Pay and Binance would have been to convert or facilitate 
conversion of Mr Hs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, All Prime Pay and Binance 
provided the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr H paid. As All Prime Pay and 
Binance provided the requested service to Mr H any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments Mr H made?
I think its likely Mr H authorised the payments that were made from his account with HSBC, 
albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr H is responsible. However, 
banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to 
guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether HSBC should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments from being made. HSBC have confirmed that its fraud prevention 
systems were not triggered by any of the payments that Mr H made into the scam, so it did 
not step in to stop them.
I have considered whether the payments Mr H made should have triggered HSBCs fraud 
prevention systems prompting it to stop any of the payments Mr H made.Mr H was making payments of a reasonably high value to a new payee and on one occasion 
made two payments in the same day. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to say HSBC should 
step in every time one of its customers pays a new business especially when that business 
appears to be legitimate, as is the case here. 
I have looked over Mr Hs bank statements sent to us by HSBC, and I can see that Mr H had 
made payments of a higher value and sometimes multiple payments on the same day from 
his HSBC account. I dont think the payments Mr H made to the scam would have been 
considered unusual compared to the way he usually operated his account.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable that the payments Mr H made into the scam didnt 
trigger HSBCs fraud prevention systems, so it didnt miss an opportunity to prevent the 
scam from taking place and is not responsible for Mr Hs loss. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman