DRN-1379741
 
The complaint
Mr S' complaint concerns two whole of life policies taken out with a predecessor of Phoenix 
Life Limited. He says when he bought the policies he was led to believe he'd be able to take 
a surrender value and the life cover benefit would continue to also provide a payout when he 
died. 
What happened
Mr S took out the policies in 1988 - a 'Covermaster Plan' providing just life cover and a 'Life 
Assurance Plan' providing life and critical illness cover. He paid £15 per month to each 
policy until he recently surrendered them, having discovered that they didn't work in the 
way he thought they did. 
Mr S complained to Phoenix Life and it explained that the policies had been sold prior to the 
regulation of financial services. This meant that there'd be no requirement for the adviser 
who sold them to make an assessment of suitability for Mr S. Rather the adviser simply had 
to ensure he acted with reasonable care and skill to make sure the policies were 
appropriate for him. 
Phoenix Life felt that the adviser had done this and that the documentation issued to Mr S at 
the time of the sale would've explained how the policies worked and would've shown that 
only one payment would be made for each policy - either upon surrender or death.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service but our investigator reached the same 
conclusion as Phoenix Life. He said that because of the different requirements of 30 years 
ago there were no suitability assessments or fact finds for him to assess. But he 
was satisfied the terms and conditions and product literature which Mr S received explained 
how payment would be made.
Mr S sought a further opinion, so the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Whole of life policies do, in effect, have two elements to them - an investment fund into 
which the monthly premiums are paid and a life cover benefit that's paid for by monthly 
deductions from the investment fund. So, I can appreciate how Mr S might've reached the 
conclusion that there would be two separate payments associated with each policy.
But that's not the case and as far as I can see the policies have been administered correctly 
and in accordance with their terms by Phoenix Life, in precisely the way I would expect them 
to have been administered, like any other whole of life policy. Mr S has recently surrendered 
the policies and received their values, so the life cover is no longer in place because it's not being paid for from the fund. But had Mr S passed away before surrendering his dependents 
would've received the benefit of the life cover payment.
In respect of whether the policies were suitable for Mr S and consistent with his 
circumstances and needs, as has been explained, there was no requirement at the time to 
make such an assessment, only to ensure that accurate information was provided when 
selling an appropriate policy. I've seen nothing to suggest that Phoenix Life's predecessor 
acted incorrectly in this respect. And although Mr S was clearly labouring under a 
misapprehension about how the policies would work, I don't think it can be reasonably 
concluded that responsibility for that lies with Phoenix Life. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman