DRN-1546828
 
The complaint
 Mr S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE cancelled his alloy wheel insurance policy 
and charged him a cancellation fee. 
What happened
Mr S had an alloy wheel insurance policy with Great Lakes. In February 2019 he damaged 
the alloy wheels while parking his car and made a claim on the insurance. On receipt of 
photos of the damage, Mr Ss claim was declined by Great Lakes as the policy excludes 
cover for diamond cut alloy wheels. However as a gesture of goodwill Great Lakes provided 
Mr S with a full refund of premiums, rather than a pro rata refund as stated in the policy, less 
a £20 cancellation fee.
Mr S wasnt happy with this as he said the car manufacturer had confirmed the wheels were 
machine cut and not diamond cut. He also thought he shouldnt have to pay the cancellation 
fee and said the policy had been fraudulently sold to him. He made a complaint to Great 
Lakes.
Great Lakes didnt uphold his complaint. It said the policy document makes it very clear 
about its exclusions and Mr S was provided with all the information at the point he took the 
policy out. It said it had already offered a goodwill gesture by not applying pro rata to the 
premium refund so wouldnt refund the cancellation fee.
Mr S was unhappy with their response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. 
She said as the policy terms were clear, Great Lakes had not acted unfairly by declining the 
claim and cancelling the policy. She also agreed that it was fair to charge the cancellation 
fee in the circumstances.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator. He said as the type of car he owns would never be 
covered with the standard alloy wheels it comes with, this should have been pointed out at 
the point of sale. He also didnt think it was fair that he had to pay a £20 cancellation fee. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has expressed that he feels the policy was mis-sold as the model of car her owns 
comes with the alloys as standard, so it would never be covered under the policy. The 
complaint I have decided on is about how the claim was handled by the insurer. Should Mr S 
have concerns about the way the policy was sold he can raise a separate complaint against 
the insurance broker.Great Lakes have declined Mr S claim and cancelled his policy as it says the type of alloy 
wheels on his car are excluded from cover under the policy. The policy terms and conditions 
state as follows:
You should also note that this policy does not cover Alloy Wheels with a Chrome Effect 
finish or of Split Rim construction and/or Diamond Cut wheels. If You are not sure whether 
this will apply to Your Vehicle, please contact Your vehicle supplying dealer for clarification.
So I can see that the policy doesn't include cover for certain types of alloy wheels. However, 
I also need to consider whether Great Lakes have acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining Mr Ss claim and cancelling his policy.
Mr S provided photos of the damaged alloy wheels when he made the claim. Great Lakes 
passed these to its repairer who said he thought that the wheels were diamond cut. When 
Great Lakes informed Mr S of this he said he had called the company that makes the car 
and they had said the wheels were machine cut and not diamond cut.
I have considered both of these explanations and I dont think Great Lakes have acted 
unfairly. The repairer used by Great Lakes is an expert in car repairs, including alloy wheels. 
Great Lakes have provided evidence of the repairers conclusion about the wheels. Mr S 
said he contacted the car manufacturer and they said the wheels were machine cut. 
However he has provided no evidence to support this. 
I have been provided with two conflicting opinions on whether the alloy wheels are diamond 
cut. In situations like this I need to decide which is the most persuasive. Great Lakes expert 
confirmed the wheels were diamond cut after reviewing photos of them, I think it was fair for 
Great Lakes to act on this information. Further, as Mr S hasnt provided evidence from the 
manufacturer to the contrary, I am less persuaded by this. I therefore think Great Lakes 
acted fairly by concluding that the wheels were diamond cut, based on its repairers expert 
opinion, and therefore declining the claim. 
I have also considered whether Great Lakes were fair to cancel the policy on this basis. Mr S 
couldnt benefit from the policy so there would little point in it continuing. Following on from 
the section I have quoted above, the policy goes on to say:
Cancellation due to ineligibility will provide a pro-rata return of premium, less a cancellation 
fee of £20.00.
This makes it clear that should the alloy wheels be ineligible, based on the listed exclusions, 
the policy will be cancelled. I therefore think this decision was fair. 
I have considered whether Mr S should have been reasonably aware of the exclusion. After 
reviewing the policy documents, I can see the policy term is printed on the first page of the 
document. As stated above it is very clear about what isnt covered and that it is the 
insureds responsibility to determine if their alloys would be excluded. It also explains what 
will happen if the alloy wheels are ineligible. I therefore think Great Lakes have made the 
term clear enough in their policy documents. 
Finally, Mr S has said it isnt fair that he has been charged a cancellation fee. However, as 
above, it states in the policy that a £20 fee will be deducted. Further Mr S has been given a 
refund of his premiums, less the £20 fee, with no pro rata discount applied as described in 
the policy. I therefore think Great Lakes have treated Mr S fairly and reasonably as they 
have refunded above what is required in the policy.For these reasons I dont think Great Lakes have done anything wrong in handling the 
cancellation of Mr S policy. I therefore wont be asking it to do anything different or take 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. I therefore dont require Great 
Lakes Insurance SE to take any further action or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman