DRN-3361031
The complaint
Mr R complains about Revolut Ltds decision to review and subsequently close his account. 
Mr R is also unhappy that Revolut Ltd decided to return the money in his account to the 
original senders.
What happened
Mr R held a Revolut account. In June 2020, Mr Rs account was flagged for review. During 
the review, Mr Rs account was fully limited.
As part of the review, Revolut asked Mr R to provide information. This information included 
details on Mr Rs main source of income; his most recent tax return statement and 
information relating to nature of recent transfers into the account and out of the account. 
Mr R responded with the requested information.
In October 2020, Revolut finalised their review and decided to close Mr Rs account. They 
returned the money which was left in the account to the original sources.
Mr R complained. Revolut responded to Mr Rs complaint and confirmed that they were 
entitled to end the relationship with Mr R and return the money. Revolut also said they 
couldnt disclose any details regarding the review or why they made the decision they did.
Mr R brought the complaint to our service. While Mr Rs complaint was waiting to be 
investigated, Revolut offered Mr R a payment of £20 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the 
complaint. Mr R rejected this offer.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought Revolut were entitled to take the actions they 
did  including closing the account and returning the money left in it back to source. She 
didnt ask Revolut to do anything differently.
Mr R remained unhappy. In summary, he said;
Revolut had breached the contract as his account had been blocked for almost two 
years;
He sent them the requested information and we havent explained why we think 
theyre entitled to keep the money and return it to source;
He supplied information showing that the money belongs to him so they should give 
him access to it.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to make Mr R aware that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. 
We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information Revolut has provided is information that we considered should be kept 
confidential.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened, 
Im satisfied Revolut was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they 
reviewed Mr Rs account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Revolut didnt tell Mr R about the review  but they dont have to. As part of their 
review, Revolut asked Mr R for detailed information about the money in his account and 
where it came from  which theyre entitled to do under their obligations. I appreciate Mr R 
feels he provided everything Revolut asked for, and therefore feels they should have given 
him access to his account and his money back. Following their review, Revolut werent 
satisfied with the information Mr R provided. Ive had to weigh up whether I think Revolut 
were fair in their actions. Having reviewed the full circumstances of this complaint, I can 
appreciate why Revolut werent satisfied with the information Mr R gave. I appreciate Mr R 
thinks our service should have asked him for information, but Revolut have shared the 
appropriate documentation with us  and ultimately it is Revolut who decide whether what 
information they do or do not require as part of a due diligence review. Because of that, 
while I recognise Mr Rs upset around this, I cant fairly conclude Revolut acted 
inappropriately.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr R decided to stop banking with Revolut, he wouldnt have to explain why. Revolut 
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of 
the account. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion unless 
we think theyve acted unfairly. Revolut have relied on, and complied with, the terms and 
conditions when closing Mr Rs account and Ive seen nothing to suggest that theyve made 
an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently. 
I recognise Mr R thinks Revolut have blocked his account for two years  but I cant fairly 
agree. The account was first limited in June 2020 and Revolut made the decision to end their 
banking relationship with Mr R in October 2020. Mr R doesnt have access to the money 
which was left in the account  but Im satisfied Revolut have returned that money to source. 
And based on the evidence Ive received, I think their actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Overall, Revolut were entitled to review, block and subsequently close Mr Rs account. They 
asked for information to be provided to them relating to money paid into the account  and it 
is Revoluts duty to ensure their customers money is protected. As the information Mr R 
submitted wasnt enough to satisfy Revoluts review, they decided to close the account and 
return the money to the original source. Im sorry Mr R is left in the position he finds himself 
in  and Im sorry I cant share more details with him on the reasons why. But in order to 
uphold his complaint and ask Revolut to do something to put things right, Id need to be 
satisfied they did something wrong. And having considered everything, I cant reasonably 
say they did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman