DRN-4389896
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim she made on a group 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mrs B is insured under her employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provides cover for Mrs Bs own occupation and includes a deferred period of 13 weeks.
In May 2022, Mrs B was signed-off work by her GP, suffering from symptoms of anxiety and 
depression. She was also experiencing symptoms of chronic neck pain and a sleep disorder. 
Mrs B remained unfit for work, so in August 2022, her employer made an incapacity claim on 
her behalf.
Unum obtained Mrs Bs medical records and it spoke to Mrs B. It didnt think she was 
suffering from a functionally-impairing mental illness; it noted that Mrs B had been abroad 
and that in July 2022, a GP had felt she might be fit to start a phased return to work. So 
Unum didnt think Mrs B had shown she met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the 
entire deferred period. Therefore, it turned down her claim.
Mrs B was unhappy with Unums decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
provided us with evidence from her treating psychiatrist and a clinical psychologist who both 
concluded that Mrs B had been incapacitated from carrying out her role by her symptoms. 
She also let us know that she had begun a phased return to work.
Our investigator sent the new evidence to Unum for its consideration. However, it didnt 
change its position. It considered that the new evidence had been specifically written to 
challenge the decline of the claim and that it had also been written several months after the 
end of the deferred period. Therefore, it felt the contemporaneous evidence from the time of 
the deferred period was more persuasive.
The investigator felt that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Based on the medical 
evidence available to Unum when it initially assessed the claim, she felt it had been fair for 
Unum to decline it. However, she considered that the psychiatrists letter was compelling and 
persuasive evidence that Mrs Bs symptoms had caused her to be incapacitated throughout 
the entire deferred period. So she thought that Unum should accept, backdate and pay Mrs 
Bs claim, with interest. She also felt Unum should pay Mrs B £150 compensation to reflect 
the trouble and upset it had caused her.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 September 2023, which explained the reasons why I 
intended to uphold Ms Bs complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other 
things, the terms of this policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Unum 
handled Mrs Bs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mrs Bs 
employers contract with Unum. Mrs B made an incapacity claim, given she wasnt fit for 
work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum to consider whether Mrs Bs 
claim met the policy definition of incapacity.
The policy says:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
This means that in order for Unum to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that a 
policyholders illness prevents them from carrying out the material and substantial duties of 
their own occupation. In Mrs Bs case, it means that Unum needs to be satisfied that an 
illness prevented her from performing the material and substantial duties of her insured role 
and that shed be unable to carry out the same role for any other employer.
The policy deferred period is 13 weeks. So in order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder 
must be incapacitated in line with the policy terms, for the entire deferred period and 
afterwards.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mrs Bs responsibility to provide Unum with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that her illness led to her being incapacitated in line with the policy 
terms.
Unum assessed the medical evidence Mrs B provided at the outset (including GP records) 
and didnt think it showed that shed been incapacitated in line with the policy terms. It 
concluded that the evidence suggested that Mrs B had been struggling with her work-life 
balance and the demands of a new role. It thought that Mrs B had been suffering from 
chronic pain and a sleep disorder for many years and had been able to work through those 
issues. And it noted that in July 2022, Mrs Bs GP had indicated that she could be fit to begin 
a phased return to work.
Like our investigator, I dont think Unum reached an unreasonable conclusion when it initially 
assessed Mrs Bs claim, or when it issued its final response to her complaint. In my view, it 
wasnt unfair for Unum to consider that neither the GPs evidence nor Mrs Bs account of her 
symptoms showed that she was significantly impaired, or that she met the policy definition of 
incapacity.
However, since Unum issued its final response to the complaint, Mrs B provided two new 
pieces of evidence. One from a psychiatrist and one from a clinical psychologist. Unum has 
seen both pieces of evidence and has had an opportunity to comment on them. It wasnt 
persuaded to change its position, so Ive now explored whether I think this was a fair 
conclusion for it to draw. 
The psychiatrist, who Ill call Dr A, provided a letter dated 20 March 2023. Ive set out what I 
think are their key conclusions below:
In retrospect, certainly from May 2022, it is likely that the burden of somatic, post traumatic, 
depressive and anxiety phenomena (meeting criteria retrospectively for complex PTSD and 
moderate depression) rendered her incapable of performing material and substantial duties 
in the occupational domain, and also significantly reduced her capability and function in non- occupational activities of daily living. It will be difficult for her to sustain the current level of 
work, or indeed increase her hours, unless there is a material improvement in her physical 
and psychological state
In summary, Mrs B is..premorbidly high functioning and intelligentwho presents with 
symptoms consistent with complex PTSD and a moderate depressive disorder, both from 
her narrative and the questionnaires. Together with anxiety and depressive phenomenology, 
she has chronic neck pain, migraines, hypersomnolence and brain fog, all of which have a 
significant effect on her day-to-day functioning, in both occupational and domestic domains.
Ive thought about this evidence carefully. Im mindful that, as Unum has pointed out, this 
letter was drafted some months after the end of the deferred period and is based on 
retrospective reporting. It doesnt appear that Dr A had the opportunity to assess Mrs B 
during the deferred period.
Nonetheless, Ive also borne in mind that Dr A is a consultant psychiatrist and therefore, an 
expert in their field. In their opinion, Mrs Bs symptoms wouldve resulted in her being unable 
to carry out the material and substantial duties of her insured role from May 2022 onwards. I 
find this evidence compelling and, given Dr As medical specialism, more persuasive 
evidence than the GPs notes. I agree with our investigator that Dr A, as a consultant 
psychiatrist, was likely better placed to comment on Mrs Bs psychiatric diagnosis than her 
GP. I note too that Dr As findings draw together the symptoms Mrs B experienced over a 
period of years, which are detailed in the GP records. As such then, I dont find Dr As 
conclusions to be particularly inconsistent with or contradictory to the contemporaneous GP 
notes.
Ive considered too the letter from Mrs Bs clinical psychologists letter, which was also dated 
March 2023. They stated:
Mrs B was incapacitated due to the severity of her symptoms and it would have been 
inappropriate for her to remain in work at that time. Indeed, it appeared that attempting to 
remain in work full time for such a long period despite extreme fatigue was detrimental to her 
mental health.
Again, while Im mindful that this letter post-dates the end of the deferred period by some 
months, this is evidence from another mental health professional, whod been involved in 
Mrs Bs treatment, which corroborates Dr As findings. As such, I find this letter further 
persuasive medical evidence to demonstrate that Mrs B did meet the policy definition of 
incapacity during the deferred period.
Overall, I currently think that the new medical evidence of March 2023 is compelling and 
persuasive evidence which shows that Mrs B was medically incapacitated from carrying out 
the material and substantial duties of her insured role for the whole of the deferred period. 
Therefore, I dont think it was reasonable for Unum to maintain its decline of the claim once it 
had had an opportunity to review the new evidence. Id add too that I dont think that Mrs Bs 
travel abroad on holiday is persuasive evidence that she was fit to carry out the material and 
substantial duties of her role during the deferred period.
This means that I currently think that the fair outcome to this claim is for Unum to now accept 
and pay Mrs Bs claim, backdated to the date that benefit first became payable. Unum 
should add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to each benefit payment, from the date it 
was due until the date of settlement. Im aware that Mrs B did return to work on a phased 
basis, so it will be for Unum to assess and pay the claim in line with the policy terms.
Our investigator felt that Unum should pay Mrs B compensation. However, I dont think that Unum acted unfairly or unreasonably at the point it initially assessed the claim and issued its 
final response to Mrs Bs complaint. I dont think it had enough evidence to admit the claim at 
that time. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to make an additional award 
for Mrs Bs trouble and upset here.
I asked both parties to provide me with any evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Unum told us that it had asked its Chief Medical Officer (CMO), who has a background in 
psychiatry, to review Mrs Bs file, including the new evidence. The CMO didnt think that Mrs 
B had met the full diagnostic criteria for PTSD and that there was no record of what her 
trauma was. The CMO felt that Mrs Bs absence and reported psychological presentation 
were linked to her struggles with her work/life balance. It said it disagreed that a claims 
decision should be based upon reports which were written after the end of the deferred 
period and by experts who hadnt seen Mrs B during that period. But it said it appreciated 
how I had explained my position.
However, Unum queried the interest award Id recommended. It said that Id acknowledged 
that it had made the correct claims decision at the end of the deferred period. So it proposed 
that interest shouldnt be applied from the end of the deferred period, but from the first 
payment due after the date it received the medical report on 17 July 2023. It also explained 
that as Mrs B has returned to work, its likely proportionate benefit will be required.
Our investigator put Unums comments to Mrs B, who told us that if I decided interest should 
be applied from the date it received the medical report, shed be happy to accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think it was fair for Unum to turn down Ms Bs claim and Ill 
explain why.
Im grateful to Unum for the comments from its CMO. Ive considered these points carefully 
and I appreciate that the CMO has a background in psychiatry. However, in the round, Im 
still more persuaded by the opinion of Dr A, a consultant psychiatrist, and the opinion of the 
clinical psychologist -  for the reasons Ive given above. Briefly, I find their expert opinions to 
be persuasive evidence that Mrs B did meet the definition of incapacity for the whole of the 
deferred period and afterwards. So it follows that I still find that the fair outcome to this 
complaint is for Unum to accept and pay Mrs Bs claim, in line with the policy terms.
With that said, I do accept Unums point that I acknowledged it hadnt had enough medical 
evidence to show Mrs B was incapacitated in line with the policy terms until it received the 
new specialist evidence on 17 July 2023. So I agree that it would be fair and reasonable for 
interest to be awarded and applied to each benefit payment due after 17 July 2023. Thats 
because thats the date I think Unum had enough evidence to show the policy terms were 
met. Mrs B has indicated that she would be happy to accept whatever award I decide. 
As I set out above, it appears that Mrs B has returned to work on a phased basis. So it will 
be for Unum to assess and pay the claim in line with the policy terms and to consider 
whether, and at what point, proportionate benefit might be due.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Unum Ltd to accept and pay Mrs Bs claim, backdated to the date benefit became 
due. It must add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to each benefit payment due after 
17 July 2023 until the date of settlement.
If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman