DRN-2097552
The complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr B took out in 1995 when he applied for a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr B disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
Mr B mainly says that it was his understanding that he had no choice but to take out the PPI 
in order to obtain the credit card he was applying for. Mr B said that had he known he had a 
choice, he wouldnt have taken out the policy as it wasnt something he wanted or needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I dont know what mightve been discussed about the PPI. But the application form Mr B 
completed made it clear that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI. I say this because 
I can see that under the heading OPTIONAL FEATURES Mr B has ticked to say he 
required PPI. 
There were other options offered on the form that Mr B didnt tick. I think Mr B wouldve 
understood at the time that he couldve left the PPI tick box blank if he hadnt wanted PPI. 
I can understand why Mr B has forgotten now as this was a long time ago. But I think that 
Mr B wouldve been able to see at the time that the application form showed that having the 
PPI was optional - and he chose to take it, signing the completed application at the end.  
Neither Mr B nor Lloyds could say how the PPI was sold to Mr B. But in fairness to Mr B, 
Lloyds said that it would look at his complaint as if it had advised Mr B personally to take out 
the PPI. This means it not only had to give him important policy information in a clear way. It 
also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommended was suitable for 
Mr B. 
It doesnt look to me as if the policy was unsuitable for Mr B based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. PPI wouldve covered him in the event of accident or sickness for 
up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr B wasnt sure what his sick pay entitlement was at the time. Thats unsurprising after so 
long. It looks like he told Lloyds that he couldve been able to rely on getting full sick pay for 
around one month followed by another month on half pay. So, if hes remembered this 
correctly, this means that the policy wouldve paid out for significantly longer than he 
couldve depended on his employer to pay him sick pay. And it wouldve paid out on top of 
any sick pay  providing a useful benefit to Mr B when he mightve had extra costs as a 
result of being off work ill or with a disability.
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mr B lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ive taken into account that Mr B mentioned having savings he couldve relied on. I havent 
seen any details about this but I accept that its hard to find evidence of savings from 
25 years ago. The information Mr B told us and Lloyds suggests the amount couldve been 
between £5k - £10k. So I've kept this in mind when thinking about this complaint. 
The policy wouldve paid out for longer than its likely Mr Bs savings wouldve lasted if he 
wasnt able to work and hed had to rely instead on his savings rather than his salary to pay 
all his monthly outgoings. Even after taking into account that Mr B mightve had some sick 
pay for a couple of months, looking at his salary at the time, I dont think this amount of 
savings wouldve been able to replace his salary for the whole time this policy couldve paid 
out a benefit. 
This policy more than covered the minimum monthly repayments Mr B had to make to his 
credit card. It couldve cleared the card balance if Mr B hadnt been well enough to return to 
work before 12 months was up. So I think it still offered him worthwhile benefits even 
allowing for this amount of savings. 
And I dont know if Mr B wouldve always had savings he could depend on to make his 
monthly repayments if he wasnt able to work. PPI provided a dependable alternative means 
of covering his credit card monthly repayments.  
So what Mr B has told us about his savings isnt enough for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint and it doesnt affect my overall view. 
Based on everything I've seen and been told about Mr Bs financial circumstances, I think 
PPI was worthwhile for him and suitable for Mr B in his situation. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what 
it might pay out if Mr B made a claim. But Mr B chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems to have wanted this type of cover. I cant see that he wouldve been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions or limitations. Mr B couldve cancelled the policy at 
any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay for the benefits it 
offered him  as it seems he did in 1996.
Ive also taken into account what Mr B said about the way some other PPI cases have been 
dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion here.  
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely Mr B wouldve made a different decision about taking 
out this PPI in 1995 if better information had been provided. On balance I think he still 
wouldve taken out the policy. This means I dont find that Mr B has lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds did wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman