DRN-2919081
The complaint
Mr K complains about the windscreen repairs that Highway Insurance Company Limited 
made to his car following a claim on his motor insurance policy. He seeks further 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr K had the rear windscreen of his convertible car replaced under his policy. But he was 
unhappy with delays in the repair and its subsequent inspection. He was unhappy with the 
attitude of the repairers staff. And he thought further faults had been caused by the incorrect 
installation. Highway agreed there had been delays and paid Mr K £150 compensation for 
his inconvenience. But Mr K rejected this as hed been unable to use his car. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Highways compensation for the delays was fair and reasonable. She couldnt see evidence 
that the staff had been rude to Mr K and Mrs K. She thought Highway had had an 
independent engineer inspect the car and there was no evidence that the installation had 
caused other faults.  
Mr K replied that there had been water ingress into the electrics through the windscreen 
whilst he awaited the windscreen repairs. He said the repairer had asked him to pay for 
unnecessary repairs. He thought he should have had a courtesy car as a claim was raised. 
He said Highway had recorded a claim rather than a glass repair and this had affected his 
premiums with a new insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Ks ill-health. I can understand that dealing with this matter has 
been stressful and frustrating for him and Mrs K. 
Mr K was unhappy with the attitude and comments made by the repairer. The repairer 
denied making the reported comments. As Highway and our investigator have already 
explained, where there are conflicting accounts, without evidence I cant say what happened. 
So I cant say Highway did anything wrong. But Ive noted that Highway has apologised and 
raised this point with its network of repairers. I think that was a fair and reasonable 
acknowledgement of Mr Ks concern. 
Mr K thought that the incorrect installation of the windscreen had caused damage to his car. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I can see that Mr K took his car back to the repairing garage and raised his concerns. The 
garage suggested replacing some parts, which Mr K wouldnt pay for. Highway then 
instructed an independent engineer to inspect the car. I think thats fair and reasonable 
where theres a dispute about repairs. The independent engineer thought the faults were 
unrelated to the claim and Highway said they were due to wear and tear. No mention was 
made of water damage causing the problems. 
Mr K said a local engineer had told him that the incorrect installation had led to the reported 
damage. But I cant see that he provided Highway with an engineers report for it to consider. 
So Highway had no expert independent evidence to contradict the independent engineers 
opinion.
So I think Highway considered all the evidence available and has justified its decision not to 
pay for additional repairs. I can see that Highway has offered to provide another inspection 
following Mr Ks report that the windscreen is still leaking. But I cant see that he has agreed 
to this. 
Mr K thought he should have been provided with a courtesy car whilst his car was being 
repaired. But I cant see that his policy provides a courtesy car in the case of glass repairs. I 
think its offer of compensation already took into account any extra costs Mr K incurred whilst 
the repair was delayed. So I cant say that Highway should compensate Mr K for his 
transport costs. 
Mr K was unhappy with how the claim was categorised by Highway. But, as our investigator 
explained, he hasnt raised this with Highway to give it a chance to respond. If he complains 
to Highway and remains unhappy with its response, then he can bring his complaint about 
this to us to consider. 
Highway agreed that there had been delays in the claim. I can see that it took some time for 
it to locate a suitable repairer. And then there was a delay whilst it considered the 
independent assessors report. It offered Mr K £150 compensation for this. I think thats fair 
and reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances. I dont require Highway to 
increase this.
Mr K said he rejected this offer. But I expect Highway to honour it if Mr K now wants to 
accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman