DRN-2652369
The complaint
Miss W complains about the decision by MetLife Europe d.a.c. to turn down her 
personal accident claim.
 
What happened
Miss W had a fall. She made a claim under the policy after having a below knee 
amputation on one of her legs.
MetLife dealt with the claim for hospitalisation, but turned down the claim relating to 
Miss Ws leg amputation. It thought this had resulted from a complication of her 
diabetes, rather than the fall. Unhappy with this, Miss W brought a complaint to this 
service.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 February 2021. Heres what I said:
The policy says:
We will pay the following policy benefits if an insured person sustains bodily injury 
during the term of the policy as a result of an accident occurring during the term of 
the policy.
The policy then lists a number of accidental permanent injuries that are covered, 
which includes the permanent physical severance of one foot.
Accident/accidental is defined in the policy as:
means a sudden identifiable event operating by violent external and visible 
means, which happens by chance and which could not be expected.
Bodily injury is defined in the policy as:
means injury during the term of the policy which is caused solely by accidental 
means and independently of illness or any other cause.
Miss Ws treating specialist (Mr H) said that the reason Miss W needed the amputation 
was due to Charcot neuroarthropathy, and that this was a diabetes related complication. 
He also said in my opinion that the reason [Miss W] developed a Charcot 
neuroarthropathy was as a result of her fall in January 2019 when she fractured her 
fibula. Had she not fractured her fibula I do not think she would have developed a 
destructive neuroarthropathy of her ankle.
Mr H later clarified that, in his expert opinion, the initial trauma was crucial in causation of 
the Charcot neuroarthropathy. And that without the trauma the Charcot neuroarthropathy 
would certainly not have started.
MetLife says that, because Miss Ws amputation was due to a diabetes related 
complication, her injury wouldnt meet the definition of bodily injury as it wasnt caused 
solely by accidental means and independently of illness or any other cause.
In cases such as this, the usual approach of this service is to consider what impact the 
accident itself had on the injury. In Miss Ws case, she had a fall and fractured her fibula. If 
it hadnt been for the fall, she wouldnt have developed Charcot neuroarthropathy. But 
equally, if she hadnt had diabetes, she wouldnt have developed Charcot 
neuroarthropathy, as this is a complication of diabetes.
On balance, I dont think the evidence supports that the accident alone would have led to 
Miss Ws amputation. Miss Ws representative says that the amputation wasnt caused by 
Charcot neuroarthropathy, but this isnt supported by Mr Hs evidence. As Im not 
persuaded the accident alone caused the amputation, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
require MetLife to pay the full claim.
However, Mr H makes it clear that Miss W only developed the Charcot 
neuroarthropathy because of her fall. Im therefore satisfied that the accident was a 
significant factor in the injury. In such cases, we usually say a proportion of the benefit 
should be payable.
As it seems both the accident and the Charcot neuroarthropathy equally contributed to 
Miss W needing an amputation, I think the fairest outcome would be for MetLife to pay 
50% of the benefit.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before 
I made my final decision. 
Miss W responded to say that her amputation was under discussion for at least six 
months before it took place. And that she developed Charcot neuroarthropathy following a 
separate diabetes related incident. 
MetLife responded to say that the policy requires the injury to be caused solely by 
accidental means, and be independent of illness or any other cause. It thinks its decision 
to turn down the claim was correct and in line with the policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W explains that the amputation was under discussion for some time, and certainly 
before she developed the Charcot neuroarthropathy. That may well have been the case, but 
the evidence from Mr H supports that the amputation was due to Charcot neuroarthropathy, 
and that Miss W developed Charcot neuroarthropathy as a result of her fall. Consequently, I 
remain of the opinion that Miss W hasnt shown the accident alone led to the amputation. 
MetLife says it turned down the claim in line with the policy terms, and the policy doesnt 
allow for partial payment of benefit. However, Im obliged to consider what I think to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. As I explained in my provisional decision, given that 
Miss W apparently wouldnt have developed Charcot neuroarthropathy if it hadnt been for 
the accident, Im satisfied that the accident was a significant factor in the injury, and it would 
be fair for a proportionate payment to be made to recognise that.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require MetLife Europe d.a.c. to pay 
50% of the benefit. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date of loss to the date of settlement*.
*If MetLife considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also give Miss W a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman