DRN-4135238
The complaint
Mr I complains Allium Money Limited (Allium) hasnt fairly considered his claim under section 
75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of a solar panel system. 
What happened
In May 2021, Mr I entered into an agreement for the supply and installation of a solar panel
system (the system) from a company who I will refer to as W. The system cost over £9,500, 
he paid a £200 deposit and the remainder was funded by a 24 month loan with Allium. The 
monthly instalments were £397.
Within a few weeks of installation, Mr I reported to W the system wasnt working as it should. 
He was also concerned about its installation as wires were exposed, stating when it rained it 
caused the system to stop working. According to Mr I, W arranged for a number of repairs to 
be carried out but the faults persisted. W suspected it was a software issue.
Without a resolution achieved with W, Mr I complained to an alternative dispute resolution 
company, who I will refer to as H. They intended to mediate matters. In August 2021, H 
inspected the system and found faults with the CT clamp and connection. They arranged for 
the relevant repair to be carried out and afterwards said it was working as it should. Despite 
this, Mr I reported ongoing issues including a fault with the battery.
Mr I requested the removal of the system, the return of the monthly payments and 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused including taking time off work and the 
increased cost of electricity bills. 
In response to the complaint and the section 75 claim, Allium said the repairs had been 
carried out by H so he should return to them or W. They also commented the issue may be 
related to the monitoring system application which wasnt a part of the original agreement. 
Unhappy with their response, he referred the complaint to our service. 
Mr I arranged for an independent inspection in December 2022. The report concluded there 
was a fault with the inverter which needed to be replaced. A further inspection was arranged 
in February 2023. That report concluded the voltage and resistance levels were fine but the 
system was working intermittently and it was likely there was a fault with the inverter. It also 
recommended the inverted needed to be replaced. Mr I reiterated he didnt want any further 
repairs and wanted the system removed. 
The investigator recommended the complaint was upheld. She concluded the system wasnt 
of satisfactory quality and given the number of repair attempts, Mr I should now be able to 
reject the goods. She said Allium must do a number of things to put things right such as 
refund the cost of the monthly instalments, refund the cost of the inspection report as 
arranged by Mr I, pay for the removal of the system, etc. 
Mr I agreed with the investigators overall findings but he believed he should receive more 
compensation given what had happened and for the overall level of service he received from 
Allium and W. He also commented due to the faulty system his electricity bills had increased 
which he believed he should be compensated for. 
Allium disagreed. They maintained their stance and said had Mr I agreed to engage with W, 
a resolution wouldve been reached. They said the inverter could be replaced under warranty 
which W were willing to arrange. They considered the investigators opinion to be 
disproportionate and unjustified. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why. 
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods (W) or the provider of credit (Allium) if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. In this case, Im satisfied the requirement for a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement is present so I find Mr I was able to make a section 75 claim. Allium may argue 
the involvement of H breaks this three way agreement but I disagree. Im satisfied H acted 
solely in the attempt to mediate and resolve matters informally and their involvement doesnt 
negate Alliums duty to fairly consider a section 75 claim as a regulated financial business. 
I must stress in order to uphold Mr Is complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres 
been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that Alliums response to the section 
75 claim wasnt fair nor reasonable.
In this case, the relevant law that applies is The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). It implies 
a term that the goods supplied should be of satisfactory quality. This is taken to mean the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking account of the 
description, the price paid, the state, condition, fitness for purpose and durability. There is 
also an implied term that the service delivered must be carried out with reasonable care and 
skill. That is, the standard one would expect of a reasonably competent person in that trade 
or profession. The CRA also sets out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory 
rights under a contract to supply goods or services arent met.
From my understanding, shortly after installation Mr I reported issues with the system and W 
sent engineers on more than one occasion to rectify it. Exactly what was found or the repairs 
carried out is unclear but it appears W accepted there were issues with the system which 
needed fixing, hence the multiple engineer visits. I dont believe a reasonable person would 
expect to experience such issues so soon after the system was installed. On balance, Im not persuaded the system was of satisfactory quality meaning there was a breach of 
contract. 
Where this happens, the CRA allows Mr I to ask for a repeat performance to put the 
problems right which is what happened here.  A number of repairs were carried out by W 
and a further repair in August 2021 as arranged by H. Despite this, Mr I reported faults 
remained. 
In this case, there have been three separate independent inspections, that is August 2021, 
December 2022 and February 2023. Ive carefully considered them and they all report faults 
whether it be the CT clamp, connections or the inverter. I find this supports my belief the 
system wasnt of satisfactory quality and despite the repairs, faults remain. 
 
Mr I says he has lost confidence in the entire system and he doesnt want a further repair. 
Given what has happened thus far, I can understand why he feels that way especially as its 
not clear another repair would work. Given the overall circumstances, I find its fair and 
reasonable that Mr I should be able to reject the system and receive a full refund.
That means Allium should end the agreement and arrange or cover the cost of the systems 
removal and disposable. They should also cover the costs for any reasonable remedial work 
required as a result of the installation (this should be supported by sufficient evidence by Mr 
I). Should the cost of any remedial work be over £500, Mr I must contact Allium to discuss 
the same, this may mean hes required to obtain quotes for this work to be carried out. 
Allium must also reimburse the cost of the inspection report arranged by Mr I in December 
2022. 
Allium should refund all the monthly instalments paid by Mr I including the deposit amount as 
Im not persuaded he had sufficient use of the system. Ive taken into account Mr Is 
comments about his increased energy consumption costs but as Im awarding the full refund 
of the monthly instalments, I dont consider a further award is warranted. Im satisfied this 
puts him back close to the position he wouldve been in had he not purchased the system. 
I wish to stress Allium is jointly liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier (W). However when Mr I contacted them, as he couldnt reach a resolution with W, 
Allium insisted he return to W or H. I believe they shouldve taken ownership of the section 
75 claim and made sure the matter was investigated properly. As they didnt, I believe their 
actions delayed matters and caused inconvenience to Mr I as he was left with a faulty 
system for quite some time. This includes the extent of his correspondence with them to 
resolve the issue, having to arrange further inspections and taking time off work to do so. For 
this, I believe Allium should also pay £200 compensation to Mr I for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Overall, Im not satisfied Allium fairly considered the section 75 claim. Instead they 
redirected him to W and H. For me, the evidence was clear the system had a number of 
faults despite the numerous repair attempts. Had Allium fairly considered the section 75 
claim, its likely they wouldve agreed to Mr I rejecting the goods sooner. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Is complaint. 
To put things right, Allium Money Limited must:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Mr I to pay;
- To arrange/cover the cost to remove and dispose of the solar panel system and 
cover the cost of any reasonable remedial work that is required to fix Mr Is property 
as a result of the installation (see above for more detail);
- Refund all the payments Mr I has made towards the agreement including the 
deposit*,
- Refund the cost of the inspection report as arranged by Mr I*
- Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Is credit file;
- Pay £200 to Mr I for the trouble and upset caused.
* Allium Money Limited should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above refunds 
calculated from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
If Allium Money Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of my award 
it should provide Mr I with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so he can reclaim 
that amount if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman