DRN-4256057
The complaint
Mr A complains Wakam unfairly declined his claim on his motor insurance policy after his car 
was stolen.
Wakam are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the representative of Wakam. As Wakam have accepted it is accountable for the 
actions of the representative, in my view, any reference to Wakam includes the actions of 
the representative.
There are several parties and representatives of Wakam involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Wakam.
What happened
On 2 August 2022 Mr As car was stolen from the driveway of his home address.
Mr A reported the theft to the police on the same day and made a claim on his motor 
insurance policy the next day. He provided video footage of the thief approaching his house 
that was captured on his neighbours doorbell camera. Additional CCTV from a local 
business was also provided.
The CCTV footage showed a person walking along the road towards Mr As house, where 
the car was parked on the drive. The footage then showed Mr As car being driven down the 
road and out on to a main road a few seconds later.
At the start of December 2022 Wakam declined Mr As claim. It said based on the footage of 
the theft it had reviewed, that Mr A had not taken reasonable steps to safeguard his car as 
per the terms of his policy. It said the theft of his car would not be covered due to its 
concerns regarding the circumstances and ease of the theft. It said the speed of the theft 
and that the thief was alone meant a relay method of theft was not possible and its belief 
was that Mr A hadnt locked his car.
As Mr A was not happy with Wakam, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said although 
Mr A said his key fob was in his house at the time of the theft, the evidence provided 
suggested a pre-coded fob was used to steal the car. And it was not an opportunist theft. 
They said Wakam fairly declined the claim based on the evidence it had.
As Mr A is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What I provisionally decided and why
I reviewed the CCTV footage of the theft and the date and times recorded. It showed a 
single male walking along Mr As Road, which is a cul-de-sac. As he approached Mr As car 
he then disappears from view of the camera. The footage shows Mr As car being driven 
down the road and out on to the main road -  a matter of eleven seconds later.
The male does not approach any other homes or cars, so I do not think this was an 
opportunistic theft. It is likely it was a targeted theft of the car.
I saw Wakam said it was its belief that Mr A hadnt locked his car and it was therefore not 
safeguarded. Mr A said the car was locked and the key fob was in his bedroom. 
Wakam said the speed at which the vehicle was taken supports this conclusion. It said had 
the vehicle been locked, it didnt believe an individual would be able to unlock the car, start 
the engine, and adjust the seat. And it would be highly implausible for an individual to 
complete all these actions in just eleven seconds using an automatic transmission, had the 
vehicle been properly locked.
I looked at the report completed by an independent vehicle security expert. The report says; 
The speed at which the vehicle is acquired eliminates the possibility that a new fob was 
coded, as the coding of a fob takes a number of minutes.
The fact the individual is alone, and doesnt appear to be carrying relay equipment, rules out 
the relay method.
Also included within the security experts report it says;
 Even if the vehicle was left unlocked, a device would have to be plugged in and allowed to 
work, a process which would take longer than the eleven second time period from point of 
entry to driving the vehicle away. This does not support Wakams belief that Mr A had not 
locked his car, and this enabled the theft to take place in eleven seconds.
The evidence provided by the security expert concludes the speed in which the theft occurs 
suggests a pre-coded(original) fob was used in order to steal the car.
The report says two key fobs are supplied with this car when new. Mr A provided evidence 
he bought the car with only one key fob. I saw Mr A returned his key fob and it was received 
by Wakams representative. Wakams representative said it was lost in transit between 
Wakam and its car security expert. The whereabouts of the second key fob is unknown.
I have not seen any conclusive evidence that confirms the car was not locked. And I do not 
think Wakam has provided enough evidence to support its reliance, upon the exclusion in 
the policy, that says; 
You shall at all times take all reasonable steps to prevent Injury and safeguard your vehicle 
from loss or damage. 
I dont think Wakam can fairly rely on this exclusion to decline Mr As claim. 
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint and require Wakam to re-consider his claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms & exclusions. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A did not respond.
Wakam responded and said it would accept the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Wakam accepted my provisional decison and Mr A did not respond,  I maintain my 
provisional decision. I uphold Mr As complaint and require Wakam to re-consider his claim 
in line with the remaining policy terms & exclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Wakam to re-consider Mr As claim in line with the remaining policy terms & 
exclusions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman