DRN-3683446
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly closed 
his credit card account due to inactivity.
Background
In April 2022, AESEL wrote to Mr G and advised him that it was closing his account due to 
his credit card not having been used for over 12 months. 
Mr G was unhappy with this and made a complaint. AESEL didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
As Mr G remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. She didnt think that AESEL had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that AESEL acted unfairly towards Mr G 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr G, a financial institution is under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr G is unhappy 
that AESEL closed his account. However, each financial institution has its own criteria for 
deciding whether it wishes to continue offering its services and AESEL has taken the 
decision that it typically wont continue to offer a credit card in circumstances where the card 
hasnt been used for 12 months. 
In this case, Mr Gs February 2022 and March 2022 statements both clearly stated that 
AESEL had noted Mr G hadnt used his card in the last 12 months and that his agreement 
would be terminated and account closed in April 2022 if his card wasnt used. The notices 
went on to explain that if Mr G wished to retain his credit card he should use it to make a 
transaction within 50 days of his February 2022 statement and 20 days of his March 2022 
one. But if the card wasnt used during this period the account would be closed. As Mr G 
didnt use his card during this time his account was closed. 
I appreciate that Mr G says he didnt read these credit card statements because he had a nil 
balance. I also appreciate that Mr G says it was unreasonable to send such notifications in 
his statements and he would have preferred a specific communication telling him to use his 
card. However, Im nonetheless satisfied that Mr G was provided with reasonable notice of 
the potential closure of his account. I cant hold AESEL responsible for the fact that Mr G 
chose not to read his statements, or reasonably find that this means that AESEL failed to act 
fairly and reasonably towards him.
I realise that AESELs decision will have been very disappointing to Mr G and I can 
appreciate why the closure of his account might have caused him inconvenience. But 
despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell AESEL that it has to reinstate        
Mr Gs account in circumstances where it legitimately closed it. Furthermore, AESEL has 
informed Mr G that hes entitled to reapply for the credit card he had and that any application 
will be considered on its merits and against the criteria in place. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that AESEL acted unfairly towards   
Mr G and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I 
think AESEL hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman