DRN-2279601
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is that Lloyd O'Sullivan Financial Services unsuitably advised him to 
transfer his preserved occupational pension scheme benefits to a SIPP (Self-Invested 
Personal Pension).
What happened
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of it 
to both parties where he set out the background and circumstances of the complaint. 
In brief, Mr W had been a client of Lloyd OSullivan for some years. In late 2017
and early 2018 when the advice was provided, he was in his late 50s, married and was a 
director of a well-known company earning around £370,000 a year. He and his wife owned 
their main home (mortgaged), had a second home overseas (mortgaged), and a buy-to-let 
flat (value about £300,000 with a £20,000 mortgage).
Mr W had money purchase pension plans with a total value of approximately £770,000. He 
also had preserved defined benefits in an OPS with a transfer value of approximately 
£260,000. He and his wife held investment ISAs with a value of around £86,000.
 
Mr and Mrs W were proposing to buy another buy-to-let flat.  They had some cash savings 
for part of the deposit, but wanted to raise around another £65,000 towards it. The 
completion date was expected to be in October 2018.
Mr W had discussions with the adviser in October 2017 about potentially raising this sum by 
transferring his OPS benefits. The adviser completed a Pension Benefits Supplementary
fact find, recording various information relating to Mr and Mrs Ws pension provision.
They intended to retire at 65; Mr Ws attitude to risk was recorded as aggressive,
however the document also said that after taking tax-free cash he wanted to invest the 
residual fund in a moderate or balanced portfolio.
A Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) report was produced in October 2017. This
projected Mr Ws retirement benefits at 65 to be £13,353 full pension, or £9,244 reduced
pension, and £61,631 tax-free cash. The critical yield was 11.55% for the full pension, or 
9.14% for the reduced pension and tax-free cash.
The pension transfer report dated 19 December 2017 said, amongst other things:
The Critical Yield figures provided by the Transfer Analysis Report are at the upper limits of
the clients attitude to investment risk and also at a level that I believe may not be 
sustainable in the long term. However, the key desire to review a transfer does not appear to 
be for income provision, but for control of the tax tree cash fund now and accessing funds at 
a later date, predicted to be 66.
In early January 2018 Mr W e-mailed the adviser mentioning that he intended to make
maximum subscriptions to his and his wifes ISA, and a contribution to his wifes pension in 
the 2017/18 tax year. He said that the tax-free cash wouldnt be required until November 
2018.
Lloyd OSullivan produced a suitability report on 17 January 2018. Amongst other things, it
noted that taking early retirement scheme benefits had been discounted, as the scheme
pension would be taxed at the additional rate. It also noted that Mr W could take tax-free
cash from his SIPP, but discounted that option stating that the cash equivalent transfer value 
was generous and that Mr W wanted to take advantage of it, as long as it made sense to do 
so. The report quoted the critical yield and said it might not be sustainable in the long term, 
but pointed out that Mr W had other sources of retirement income and that transferring would 
fulfil his objective to access tax-free cash. The adviser recommended investment in a 
balanced risk portfolio managed by a third-party firm.
In February 2018 Mr W again alerted the adviser that he wanted to make maximum ISA 
subscriptions and a pension contribution for his wife. Following an exchange of e-mails 
about it the adviser said:
Why are you planning to take £65k out of the [OPS] for your property purchase but investing 
£43k from savings?
I just need to understand for our compliance and advice process as we will need to prepare
a new report.
Mr W responded, saying:
We need the £65k towards the deposit on a buy-to-let flat but at the same time want to max 
our ISA and pension investments.
In March 2018, the adviser said:
As your financial situation is quite fluid with bonuses etc, I think it will make sense to
review how you raise your required property funds later in the year to ensure drawdown is
indeed the best option. He gave Mr W instructions on how to make the payments to the ISA 
and pension totalling £42,880.
The transfer value of £261,719 was paid from the OPS to the SIPP in April 2018.
In August 2018 Mr W confirmed that the property purchase was expected to complete in
quarter four, and that he would probably make the instruction to draw tax-free cash around
the end of September 2018. The adviser responded, saying, The only other consideration
will be to just confirm that taking a tax free drawdown from your pension is the most suitable
way to raise the funds. Perhaps we could have a conversation at some point in the next
month to just look at your options before we proceed.
In September 2018 Lloyd OSullivan confirmed that the adviser had retired. Following a
meeting, another adviser recommended that Mr W should raise the required funds by re-
mortgaging his and his wifes existing buy-to-let property. Mr W subsequently raised the 
funds by this method, albeit I understand through a different firm.
Mr W subsequently complained to Lloyd OSullivan saying that alternative options should
have been considered before he transferred, rather than after. He said that the adviser had
recommended the transfer for the purpose of funding the deposit for the flat, and that 
alternative options hadnt been discussed. Lloyd OSullivan didnt uphold his complaint and it was subsequently referred to us. 
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He said the starting position 
was set out in COBS 19.1.6:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
He said this reflected the fact that defined benefit schemes provided valuable benefits; 
offering guaranteed, inflation-proofed income for life. He said it followed that in order for
a transfer, involving irreversible loss of the benefits, to be suitable, there must be significant
advantages in favour of a transfer, sufficient to outweigh the significant disadvantage of loss 
of guaranteed benefits. The investigator didnt think any advantages outweighed the 
disadvantages in Mr Ws case. 
The investigator said Lloyd OSullivan had a responsibility under COBS 9.2.1 to give suitable 
advice, taking account of, amongst other things, Mr Ws financial situation and objectives. It 
had completed a fact find, and was aware of Mr Ws financial situation, including his income, 
savings, investments and other properties. He said the sole objective of the transfer was to 
raise money towards the deposit for the property purchase. The investigator thought that Mr 
W clearly had other options to raise those funds, including the option Lloyd OSullivan 
ultimately recommended - to re-mortgage the other property.
The investigator also said he thought Mr W could have accumulated sufficient cash by late
2018 to fund the deposit. He expected to receive share options and a bonus with a total 
value of £81,000 by May 2018, which he understood was already earmarked for the 
purchase. But he was separately able to fund ISA subscriptions and a pension contribution 
totalling over £42,000. He said he thought he would likely have been able to make up any 
shortfall given his level of earnings.
The investigator said even if this hadnt been possible, Mr and Mrs W held ISAs with a total 
value of around £86,000. Mr W could also have re-mortgaged his main residence, or taken 
tax-free cash from his SIPP. He said there was clearly no need for him to transfer in order to 
buy the property.
The investigator noted that the critical yield was high. The report on 19 December 2017 said   
Mr W intended to take a balanced risk with the residual fund. The investigator thought the 
chance of Mr W improving on the OPS benefits was very limited. The suitability report 
acknowledged that the critical yield was high, but said, However, we have already 
ascertained that you do not necessarily need to match the main scheme benefits as you
have other assets which will provide you with an income in retirement. However the 
investigator said Mr W had other assets that could have provided the deposit, so he 
questioned why Mr W should reduce his retirement benefits.
The investigator said the adviser had referred to raising the funds by alternative methods in 
March 2018, before the transfer had been completed. The investigator said he thought the 
transfer process should have been stopped at that point. Instead the adviser suggested a 
review later in the year, necessarily after the transfer had been made, to ensure 
drawdown is indeed the best option, despite the fact that drawing tax-free cash was the 
entire rationale for transferring.The investigator noted that Lloyd OSullivan had referred to other advantages of transferring. 
However he said although there were some advantages they were the usual benefits 
associated with a transfer rather than something specific to Mr Ws objectives.
The investigator acknowledged some warnings were given about the loss of guaranteed 
benefits. But he said Mr W was a retail client and he was reliant on the adviser. Warnings in 
the suitability report or elsewhere didnt make an unsuitable recommendation suitable. 
The investigator said Mr W clearly didnt need to transfer in order to achieve his objectives 
and the transfer disadvantaged him, therefore he should have been advised against 
transferring. 
Lloyd O'Sullivan didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary:
Mr W held a very senior position with his employer, and he was considered as a very 
sophisticated client with a clear understanding of investments and the mortgage 
market. He was involved in every step of the advice process, and had considerable 
personal input. He was made aware of alternative options to raise funds and was 
given warnings about the loss of guarantees. 
Its starting point was to assume that a transfer wasnt suitable. The circumstances 
were reviewed as a whole, and not just from the perspective of raising funds. It 
considered the advice was suitable in accordance with COBS 9.2.1.
Mr W first raised the possibility of raising funds from his transfer in October 2017.   
Mr W had requested information from the OPS prior to this meeting. This showed his  
intent, and was consistent with his statement I would like to take 25% of the [OPS] 
CETV in cash (which I understand that I can do without incurring any tax) and keep 
the rest invested in a pension pot.
Mr W had been given several warnings including; In summary, if your main objective 
is a guaranteed income in retirement then you should leave your pension with [the 
OPS].By taking the transfer value, you will be giving up ALL of the guarantees 
offered by the defined benefit scheme and replacing them with an unknown benefit. I 
confirm that we have discussed alternative ways of raising this capital and the 
implications of accessing your pension fund now as opposed to delaying in favour of 
the potential to receive greater benefits later in retirement.
Mr W had over three months to review the advice and discuss any concerns he had 
with the adviser. He was made aware there were alternative options available to fund 
the purchase of the flat.
The investigator had said that the entire rational for the transfer was to take the tax-
free cash to raise money for the deposit, but that was clearly not the case. The 
documentation clearly showed Mr Ws whole financial position was taken into 
account. The benefits from the OPS represented a minimal proportion of Mr Ws 
assets and realistically would have made up less than 10% of his proposed 
retirement income. 
The transfer offered potentially larger tax-free cash; a considerably better death 
benefit; the potential to pass on the proceeds free of inheritance tax to Mr Ws 
daughter; and flexibility in timing and control of future benefits. It also said the OPS 
was in deficit when the transfer was made, and it had subsequently gone into further 
decline.The investigator considered the points raised by the firm, but he wasnt persuaded to change 
his view that the advice to transfer was unsuitable. In brief, he said:
Although he accepted Mr W may have had a reasonable level of knowledge and 
experience of investments, he thought he had relied on the firms advice. He didnt 
think Mr W would have insisted on transferring if the firm had advised him against it.
The only actual identified need for Mr W was to raise cash to fund the deposit. He 
had other, better means of raising that money. The investigator didnt think the other 
reasons to justify the transfer were convincing; they were generic features and he 
didnt think the firm had clearly demonstrated that the transfer was in Mr Ws best 
interests.
Even if Mr W had requested information from the OPS prior to his first meeting with 
the firm, he thought Mr W would likely have followed advice not to transfer if that had 
been the advice given. 
Although Mr W may have been given warnings about the transfer and the idea of 
funding the property through alternative means, ultimately the firm had recommended 
the transfer. The investigator thought that Mr W was entitled to rely on the firms 
professional judgement and he acted on the firms advice.
He thought raising tax-free cash to fund the property was the entire rationale for the 
transfer. He said the suitability report went into detail on the subject under Executive 
Summary. Mr W hadnt got an identified need for the other features associated with 
a pension transfer.
Although the OPS did have a scheme deficit in March 2018 it was modest in relation 
to the size of the overall scheme assets. He said the OPS had committed to funding 
any deficit, and given the size of the company and its profits, he didnt think it was 
likely to be cause for concern. 
Mr W responded to Lloyd O'Sullivans submission by saying, in brief, that:
It was inaccurate to say he was a sophisticated client with a clear understanding 
of investments and the mortgage market. He used a financial adviser (and mortgage 
broker) specifically because he wasnt a sophisticated investor. 
The firms assertion was also inconsistent with its own assessment. The fact find 
recorded that he had Some investment knowledge and understanding rather than 
the alternative option of Experienced private investor with good investment 
knowledge. A report dated 4 April 2017 also said We discussed your knowledge 
and experience of financial products and investments. You confirmed to me you have 
some knowledge and some previous experience of investing. Mr W said it was clear 
that Lloyd OSullivan didnt consider him to be an experienced investor with good 
investment knowledge, and neither did he - hed relied on the advice it had given.
He was in good health as recorded in the fact find. His employer provided generous 
death in service benefits  4.5 times salary. He had enough protection in place.
The reason for the transfer was to raise funds to help buy the property. This was 
consistent with the evidence on file. He referred to the advisers e-mail to him on 30 November asking: Reason for 
capital raising; Amount of capital required, including purchase price of property; and 
the advisers e-mail confirming The gist of the case is that [Mr W] wants to raise 
funds to help pay for a new build property for investment, costing 470k plus costs, 
due in Oct 2018. He noted this was sent before he had responded to the advisers 
earlier e-mail on 30 November  showing the adviser was aware of the reason for 
considering the transfer prior to that e-mail. He had responded to the e-mail on 3 
December 2017  To raise c50% of the deposit for the purchase of a new build flat.
He noted the Executive Summary in the suitability report dated 17 January 2018 
said, You have committed to purchasing a second investment property and were 
looking for ways to raise the required funds. Mr W said Lloyd OSullivan knew from 
the outset this was the reason why he was considering making the transfer, and he 
had no other reason to make it.
He disagreed that he was alerted that there were alternative options prior to Lloyd 
OSullivan recommending the transfer. He said the adviser e-mailed him in March 
2018 about reviewing how to raise the funds to ensure drawdown was the best option 
 this was after it had recommended the transfer in January 2018. He said the option 
to re-mortgage the other flat wasnt discussed until the first adviser retired and he 
saw the second adviser  who said it was the best option. Ultimately this is what he 
did, and he arranged a second mortgage rather than use the funds from the transfer.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, Im satisfied the main driver behind the transfer was to enable Mr W to 
access the tax-free cash. The investigator and Mr W have both referred to correspondence 
with the firm that shows this was the case as I have set out above. 
This is also consistent with:
The Taking Pension Benefits Supplementary fact find which asked the question 
Why are you looking to take pension benefits now? And the response was Raise 
capital towards purchase of a new build property. 
Under Notes it recorded: [Mr W] needs to raise funds to finance the purchase of a 
new build flat that he and his wife have committed to - they have already paid 10% 
deposit, and intend to raise a 70% mortgage, but need to find the other 20% 
(122K). Would like to consider using the TFC element of his [OPS] (approx 65K 
based on CETV of 260,510) but is carefully considering the other implications of 
transferring away from a DB scheme before deciding to go ahead. He is expecting 
c45K from maturity of share options in March 2018 and a bonus of approx 36K in 
May 2018 which he will use towards his target. He also has existing cash and ISA 
savings.
And
When the original advice was given, it was based on [Mr Ws] request to raise 65k 
from his [OPS] towards the deposit straight away. It was only subsequently, in [Mr Ws] email of 2nd January 2018, that [Mr W] confirmed that the monies probably 
wouldn't be required until November 2018. At this stage the transfer had been agreed 
but it was agreed to delay going into drawdown and a subsequent further review of 
their funding requirements would be undertaken.
The Confidential Financial Review Form which included: [Mr W] needs to raise funds 
to finance the purchase of a new build flat that he and his wife has committed to
The Financial Planning Report dated 17 January 2018 included: You have 
committed to purchase a second investment property and were looking to raise the 
required fundswhilst you do have other existing cash savings you could use, you 
are keen to investigate the pros and cons of accessing your [OPS] tax free cash as 
an alternative. 
Under Your Needs and Objectives it said
Income Requirements
You need only a lump sum and have no requirement for any regular income
I understand you require the lump sum because:
You wish to use the funds for a property deposit.
So I think the firm was clearly aware that Mr Ws primary motivation in considering the 
transfer was to release the tax-free cash to help fund the property purchase.
Against this background, I think the firm did then consider the transfer in the context of Mr 
Ws wider circumstances. In particular that he had the capacity to bear the significant risks 
presented by the transfer, he had other financial provision that he could rely on in retirement, 
and had indicated that he was an aggressive investor overall (albeit he wanted to take a 
medium/balanced risk with this money). So I accept that Mr W was the type of investor for 
whom a transfer might be considered suitable. 
But I think there are two key issues here; that the critical yield was high, as acknowledged by 
the adviser. So there was a significant risk that the overall benefits following the transfer 
would likely be lower than if he had stayed in the OPS  and could be significantly lower. 
And Mr W had other options to fund the deposit. 
The suitability report said the maturing share options and bonus would deliver some of the 
deposit, and that Mr W had other existing cash savings he could use but was keen to 
investigate the pros and cons of accessing his OPS tax free cash as an alternative. The 
report also went onto consider taking the benefits directly from the OPS or from Mr Ws 
SIPP, but discounted both options. It went onto say that Mr W was aware the current transfer 
value was generous and he was keen to transfer to take advantage as long as it makes 
sense to do so.
In my view it didnt make financial sense to do so, given the other options available. Mr W 
didnt necessarily need to transfer. So there needed to be a good reason why Mr W should 
transfer and give up the largely guaranteed benefits that the OPS would otherwise have 
provided. 
I accept that Mr W was given warnings about the loss of guaranteed benefits on leaving the 
OPS. And that he was in a position to consider the transaction in light of the information that the firm had provided about it. However, as the investigator said, ultimately the COBS rules 
obliged Lloyd OSullivan to give suitable advice. I think Mr W would have put a lot of weight 
on that advice  the firm was the expert in the matter. And the starting point was to assume 
that a transfer wouldnt be suitable. 
The evidence suggests Mr W was at the least alerted to some of the other options available. 
However Mr W has said the re-mortgaging option wasnt discussed until after the transfer, 
which is consistent with the documentary evidence. And in particular, I havent seen that any 
detailed analysis was carried out of the returns Mr W was getting on his other 
savings/investments and pensions or the costs of re-mortgaging to enable Mr W to compare 
the relative merits of each.
The critical yield required on the transfer was high, and as acknowledged by the adviser 
may not be sustainable. I think it was likely that by transferring Mr W was effectively 
exchanging the immediate access to the tax-free cash for likely lower benefits in retirement 
than would otherwise have been provided by the OPS; and potentially significantly lower 
given the critical yield required. 
The firm has referred to the lower hurdle rate. However I think the critical yield is relevant 
here given Mr Ws circumstances; the OPS benefits were relevant to him. He could have 
stayed in the scheme and taken a transfer value closer to retirement date if that was suitable 
at the time; a transfer value reflecting the full value of the OPS benefits.
I note the suitability report said However, we have already ascertained that you do not 
necessarily need to match the main scheme benefits as you have other assets which will 
provide you with an income in retirement.
I accept this may have been the case. But I think the point is there was no need for Mr W to 
take the level of risk with the OPS benefits that he did. It was unlikely he was going to 
improve on them by transferring. So given he had alternative options, why take that risk? In 
effect, he was getting a return similar to the critical yield on the transfer value by leaving it in 
the scheme. It therefore made financial sense to use other assets that were either not 
getting or unlikely to obtain that return, or were at lower cost, and leave the OPS benefits 
where they were. 
In my view, the costs of the transfer, in terms of the largely guaranteed benefits given up 
(and reflected in the high critical yield), far outweighed the benefits when Mr W had other 
options to fund the deposit for the flat at significantly lower costs  either through re-
mortgaging or use of his other savings/pensions.
Lloyd O'Sullivan has referred to the other benefits that were gained on transfer such as a 
better death benefit; the potential to pass on the proceeds free of inheritance tax to Mr Ws 
daughter; and flexibility in timing and control of future benefits. Whilst the suitability report 
went into detail comparing the different benefits provided by both schemes and I accept 
these are advantages of the transfer, they dont appear to have been particularly important 
features of it to Mr W. Under Recommendations the adviser provided the reasons why he 
had recommended Flexi-Access Drawdown. However there was no mention about the 
change in death benefits or the potential to pass on the proceeds free of Inheritance tax to 
Mr Ws daughter. 
It appears that the firm itself started to question whether funding the property purchase 
through the tax-free cash was the best option prior to the completion of the transfer. And it 
ultimately suggested an alternative way of funding it, albeit after the transfer had been 
completed. Mr W opted to raise the money needed through this other option re-mortgaging.  I think its more likely than not that he would have agreed to that same course of action had 
that been recommended prior to the completion of the transfer. 
Taking all the above into account, Im not satisfied the overall benefits provided by the 
transfer for Mr W outweighed its risks and downsides, in the context that Mr W had other 
better options available to fund the property purchase. Accordingly, I dont think the advice to 
transfer was suitable, and it wasnt in Mr Ws best interests.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In deciding on fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr W, as far as its possible, into the 
position that he would likely have been in if but for the unsuitable advice. I think Mr W would
have remained in his OPS if suitable advice had been given. I therefore order Lloyd 
O'Sullivan Financial Services to calculate and pay compensation to Mr W on the
following basis.  
Lloyd O'Sullivan Financial Services should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision. 
Lloyd O'Sullivan Financial Services may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
marginal income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a notional 
deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Lloyd O'Sullivan Financial Services receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Lloyd O'Sullivan Financial Services to pay Mr W. Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, Lloyd O'Sullivan Financial Services should pay Mr W £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience I think the loss of his pension benefits has caused. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
I dont know the amount of compensation payable through the calculation as described
above. However, if the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more
than £160,000, I recommend that Lloyd O'Sullivan Financial Services pays Mr W the
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Lloyd O'Sullivan Financial 
Services doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr W can accept
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to get independent legal
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I order Lloyd O'Sullivan Financial Services to calculate and pay compensation to Mr W as I 
have set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman