DRN-2632656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited declined their claim against a  
travel insurance policy. Reference to Arch includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 9 March 2020, the government of Mr and Mrs Bs intended 
destination put that country into national quarantine. I understand that on the same date,  
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their seven day trip planned to start on 10 May 2020.
Mr and Mrs B made a claim against their travel insurance policy in relation to the 
cancellation costs they incurred. Arch declined their claim. It said that Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy doesnt cover what happened here. Mr and Mrs B werent happy about that and 
pursued their complaint. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr B in particular has very strong feelings about this 
matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all 
this carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I have 
considerable sympathy with Mr and Mrs B. For reasons I quite understand, they decided to 
cancel their trip. I trust that Mr and Mrs B will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus 
on what I consider the central issue, that is, whether Arch acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably in declining their claim. 
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs Bs policy doesnt cover every event which might lead them to cancel 
their trip. Arch decides what risks its willing to cover and sets these out in the 
terms and conditions of the policy. The onus is on Mr and Mrs B to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. I dont agree 
that its for Arch to demonstrate that the claim isnt covered. The onus only 
changes to Arch if it seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy, which it doesnt 
here. 
As Ive set out above, the government of Mr and Mrs Bs intended destination put 
that country into national quarantine on 9 March 2020. Mr and Mrs B say that their 
claim falls within the following part of the policy: 
Section B Cancellation and Curtailment
We will reimburse you up to the sum insured stated in the table of benefits for all 
irrecoverable deposits, advance payments and other charges paid or due to be 
paid for travel and/or accommodation, in the event of your Covered Trip being 
necessarily cancelled or curtailed due to:
[]
iii) you or any person with whom you had arranged to travel, reside or conduct 
business being:
a) quarantined [].
Mr and Mrs B say that the overriding reason for cancellation was the quarantine 
requirement in their destination country, which would have exceeded the duration 
of the trip. They say that Mrs Bs underlying health condition was a further 
contextual reason but wasnt the principal driver of their decision to cancel their trip. 
Mrs B wasnt advised to shield and wasnt advised against travel.  
I think that the policy term Ive set out above provides cover where Mr and Mrs B 
cancelled or curtailed their trip due to being quarantined. Mr and Mrs were not 
quarantined: they cancelled their trip in order to avoid being quarantined. Thats not 
an insured event under the policy.
Mr and Mrs B say that the policy doesnt say in quarantine but I dont think that 
alters the outcome here. I dont agree that the policy includes cover for future 
quarantine. The policy says, being quarantined, which refers to the present, not the 
future. Mr and Mrs B would have been subject to quarantine in their destination 
country if they had proceeded with the trip. I can quite understand why they wished to 
cancel the trip in order to avoid that. But what happened here isnt an insured event. I 
dont agree that the relevant part of the policy is ambiguous. 
I dont think that Arch was wrong to decline Mr and Mrs Bs claim under the terms of 
the policy. Mr and Mrs B have asked for a substantial compromise settlement. Ive 
considered this matter, but in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think 
there are grounds on which I could fairly direct Arch to settle Mr and Mrs Bs claim in 
full or in part outside the terms and conditions of the policy.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman