DRN-3216858
The complaint
Ms Gs complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim made under her 
home insurance policy.
I understand from reading the casefile that Ms Gs late husband was predominantly involved 
in the claim and subsequent complaint, but for ease of reference I will refer only to Ms G in 
my decision.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Im aware that my summary of events will be in far less detail than provided by the parties 
concerned. And our investigator has already set out the events in some detail to both 
parties. So, I wont repeat everything here. But Ive carefully considered everything thats 
been provided. And Ill refer to any relevant events later in my decision.
Ms G made a claim on her home insurance policy with AXA for damage to her property 
around 2014. AXA appointed a loss adjuster to assess the cause of the damage, which it 
linked to subsidence. Significant investigations and repairs to the property followed. Around 
2019, Ms G raised complaints about the way her claim had been handled and the delays she 
said AXA had caused.
AXA responded to Ms Gs concerns over three final response letters. It accepted the claim 
hadnt been handled well, and that this had caused Ms G a significant amount of distress 
and inconvenience. So, it awarded her a total of £3,550 compensation. AXA also appointed 
a new loss adjuster to oversee the claim.
Ms G didnt agree with AXAs response and referred the matter to our service. Our service 
investigated the complaint in December 2020 and considered matters up to the date of 
AXAs final response letter of 7 October 2019. The complaint wasnt upheld, as our 
investigator concluded that AXAs offer of compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Following our services investigation, the new loss adjuster carried out further investigations 
at Ms Gs property and ultimately determined that the damage wasnt due to subsidence. So, 
AXA turned down the claim. 
Ms G raised further complaints about AXAs handling of the claim. This included the 
misdiagnosis of the damage since the claim had been raised in 2014. 
Around November 2020, AXA instructed an independent surveyor to review the claim and 
agreed to be bound by their findings. The surveyor concluded:
The property has not suffered from subsidence
The principal cause of the cracking and movement evidence is moisture and thermal 
movements in the structure over time. This has been exacerbated by slight flexing due to a 
lack of lateral restraint
The property is currently structurally stable subject to improvements to the lateral restraint 
strapping in the roof space.
Following the report, AXA maintained its position to turn down the claim.
Unhappy with AXAs decision to turn down her claim, Ms G referred the matter to our 
service. In summary, she said:
That AXA hadnt fully compensated her for the impact the claim had had over the last 
five to six years.
This included the overall length of time the cause of the damage had been 
misdiagnosed, and eventually declined.
That she was unhappy with the claim being reported as subsidence and wanted all 
references to subsidence removed from insurance databases in order to avoid future 
detriment to her insurance premiums.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that it was reasonable for AXA to record the claim under the subsidence peril. But 
they agreed that AXA had prolonged the claim by misdiagnosing the damage, and this had 
caused additional distress and inconvenience to Ms G. So, they recommended AXA 
compensate Ms G a further £1,200.
AXA accepted our investigators findings and paid the £1,200. Ms G disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA accepts it shouldve handled the claim better. So thats not in dispute. And this is 
reflected in the total compensation it has paid to date. This amount is in line with the higher 
awards that our service considers for sustained and severe distress and inconvenience. So, 
my role is to consider all the relevant evidence and decide if this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.What I can consider
Our service previously considered that AXAs compensation offer of £3,550 was fair and 
reasonable for the period we investigated, and I dont intend to revisit our findings on that 
complaint here. So, the points I will consider are:
AXAs handling of the claim from the date of Ms Gs last complaint which was 
considered by this service (October 2019) until the date of this one (May 2021).
AXAs recording of the claim and its costs.
If any additional compensation is due for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Ms G.
Claim developments since our services investigation in December 2020
Ive read a copy of the previous investigation, and I can see that the recommendations were 
made in line with AXAs handling of the claim when it was still assumed the damage was 
linked to subsidence. But the evidence from the investigations that have happened since 
now conclude that the property hasnt suffered from subsidence, rather the thermal and 
moisture movements exacerbated by a lack of lateral restraint I referenced earlier. And so, 
the claim hasnt succeeded because it doesnt fall under a valid event covered by the policy.
Having reviewed the reports provided, Im persuaded by the conclusions reached by the loss 
adjuster and independent surveyor. I say this because I can see that the independent 
surveyor has taken into account the discrepancies in the monitoring data when reaching 
their opinion, and linked the cracks to natural points of weakness in the property wall which 
became stressed due to an inappropriate level of lateral restraint. So, I think AXA has done 
enough to show that the damage isnt subsidence related.
And although its clear errors were made on the claim, I therefore find AXAs decision to turn 
it down when it did was reasonable based on the evidence.
AXA has confirmed that the amount it has spent investigating and repairing the property up 
to the point it turned down the claim wont be recouped. Taking everything into account,        
I find its position reasonable in the circumstances.
Recording claim as subsidence 
I understand the concerns Ms G has about the claim being recorded as subsidence when its 
now been shown the property hasnt suffered from it. And the concerns that this would 
impact future insurance policies on both the premium cost and obtaining subsidence cover.
Ive considered what shouldve happened had the claim proceeded correctly. Its apparent 
from the initial claim evidence that investigations wouldve still been required to determine 
the cause of the cracking. And if AXAs loss adjuster had reached the conclusion that it 
wasnt subsidence earlier, then AXA wouldve still been required to record the costs 
associated with the declined claim. 
So, I cant see how AXA couldve reasonably acted any differently here in how it recorded 
the claim. It recorded the costs under the insured event it investigated, and it has confirmed 
that it will correspond with any potential future insurers to confirm there is no subsidence 
damage to the property. So based on the evidence, I dont think AXA needs to do anything 
differently in how it has recorded the claim.Compensation
To decide a fair level of compensation, Ive first considered if there were any further 
avoidable delays in the claim since October 2019.
Ive not seen any evidence of avoidable delays from the point that the second loss adjuster 
was appointed around September 2019; they monitored the property from November 2019 
to May 2020 in order to determine if there was any foundation movement which would 
dispute their initial findings. And following the results of the monitoring, they told Ms G the 
claim was being turned down around July 2020. 
As the position between the parties became deadlocked, AXA offered to instruct an 
independent surveyor around November 2020 with the agreement that it would be bound by 
its findings. And I think this was a reasonable and pragmatic offer in the circumstances 
which prevented further avoidable delays to the claim.
The independent surveyors report was provided in January 2021, and it appears that after 
further correspondence Ms G was provided with a copy in March 2021. I do think it wouldve 
helped if AXA had provided this report upon completion in January 2021  as the surveyor 
had been instructed independently. But Ms G had already been informed that the claim was 
to be turned down, and the report didnt change AXAs position. So, whilst this may have 
prevented Ms G from referring the complaint to our service for around two months, I dont 
think it had an impact when AXAs told Ms G of its decision to turn down the claim.
So, whilst I dont find any avoidable delays that I need to consider, there is an additional 
impact to Ms G that I need to take into account. And this can be attributed to the failure of 
the original loss adjuster to link the damage to the lateral restraint issues. I say this because 
had the lateral restraint issues been identified earlier, then its more likely than not Ms G 
wouldve been aware the claim wasnt valid and couldve planned accordingly from the start.
I am aware of Ms Gs comments about the time and effort her late husband put into the claim 
and complaint. But our service doesnt generally award compensation for the time in dealing 
with or preparing a complaint.
However, it is now clear that the prolonged misdiagnosis of the claim meant that it went on 
for much longer than it shouldve done. And I dont think that the full impact of this was 
reflected in the previous award made. Therefore, having considered everything, I find that a 
further award of £1,200 is appropriate in the circumstances.
This reflects the additional distress and inconvenience caused by AXAs actions in 
misdiagnosing the cause of damage, and the disruption caused by the subsequent 
investigations required to fairly turn down the claim.
Conclusion 
My findings dont in any way wish to make light of Ms Gs situation. Its clear from the 
evidence that the claim has had a severe impact to her family over the years.
I appreciate that Ms G will most likely be disappointed with my decision. But having carefully 
considered everything, I find that the total amount of compensation awarded is fair and 
reasonable. And Im satisfied that it is in line with our services approach and reflects the 
severe distress and inconvenience AXA caused. 
So, I uphold this complaint, but as AXA has already paid the compensation recommended,   
I wont require it to do anything further here. My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld. As AXA Insurance UK Plc has already paid 
the compensation Ive awarded, it doesnt need to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman