DRN-2864817
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Lending Works Limited registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2018, someone applied to Lending Works for a £7,500 loan in Mr As name to pay for a 
wedding. The application used his correct personal details, contact details, banking details, 
address history, and a picture of his genuine passport. The money was asked to be paid into 
Mr As genuine bank account.
The application also used bank statements which mimicked Mr As. The transactions and 
balances had been altered to make it look like he had a credit balance and was not using his 
overdraft, and to make it look like he had a higher income from his work.
Lending Works talked to Mr As bank and found out that the statements were doctored. They 
declined the application. A man called Lending Works to query the decline, who was able to 
pass security and be identified as Mr A. Lending Works registered an application fraud 
marker against Mr A at CIFAS.
In 2020, Mr A says he discovered the marker following a credit check. He complained, 
saying he had never applied for the loan. Mr A explained that at the time, it was the run-up to 
his wedding, so there were lots of friends staying at his home who could have impersonated 
him. He initially said he suspected one friend in particular who he had since lost contact with, 
but later clarified that he only mentioned them as he felt under pressure to give a name.
In response to questions, Mr A explained that he kept his bank card in a wallet with other 
cards, which was either with him or in a bedside drawer. He didnt notice it go missing. He 
didnt keep a record of the PIN or share it with anyone. He also kept his passport in a 
bedside drawer and didnt notice it go missing. No one had a spare key to his home, but 
many people were visiting at the time, including the previously-mentioned friend who stayed 
over. There was no one in particular who he suspected could or would have done this 
without his permission.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
didnt agree. He added that someone might have hacked his online banking. He also felt that 
Lending Works were wrong to talk to his bank, and was also unhappy with his bank. The 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr A and Lending Works a provisional decision on 11 May 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Lending Works were not required to prove beyond all 
reasonable doubt that Mr A had done something wrong. Instead, they had to have 
reasonable grounds to believe hed deliberately submitted doctored statements to apply for 
the loan, going beyond a suspicion or concern, with appropriate evidence to support this. 
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I currently 
think that Lending Works did have sufficient grounds to register the marker. Ill explain why.
The application in question used quite a bit of Mr As genuine data. It not only had his correct 
personal details such as his full name and date of birth, but his historic addresses, his 
genuine contact details, his genuine banking details, and so on. The applicant even 
submitted a photo of Mr As genuine passport, which was kept securely in Mr As home and 
which he didnt notice go missing. And when they called Lending Works, they were able to 
pass security and identify themselves as Mr A  though because of the time thats passed, 
call recordings are not still available.
It is very difficult indeed to see why someone trying to defraud Mr A would put his genuine 
contact details on this loan application. That would mean that whenever Lending Works 
needed to talk about the application, they would call or email Mr A, which would alert him to 
the fraud very quickly. Indeed, Lending Works did correspond via email with one of Mr As 
genuine email accounts. He says he didnt notice these as he didnt used that email address 
as often anymore  but even if that was the case, there was no reason for a fraudster to take 
such a large and unnecessary risk. And it seems more likely that Mr A wouldve noticed at 
least one of the emails going back and forth from his own account.
The loan was set up to be paid into Mr As genuine bank account. Again, its difficult to see 
why a fraudster would do this if they already had access to so much of Mr As sensitive data 
as well as his passport and email account  at that point they couldve potentially just set up 
a new recipient account elsewhere. And again, by paying the loan into Mr As account, it 
unnecessarily risked Mr A noticing what was going on and reporting the fraud. The main 
person who stood to benefit from the loan being paid into Mr As account was Mr A. 
Importantly, this also raises the question of how a fraudster could have accessed Mr As 
account to spend the loan money.
Mr As card was kept safe and he didnt notice it go missing. Ive looked at his current 
account statements from the time and can see that Mr A continued to use his card quite 
often, so he wouldve realised if it had disappeared. Mr A said he didnt share or record his 
PIN anywhere, and according to his banks records it was a random number generated by 
the bank, and so not a number that could easily be guessed. So if Mr As card remained in 
his possession and no one else knew his PIN, there wasnt a plausible way that an unknown 
fraudster couldve used them to spend the loan money.
Ive also looked into Mr As online banking  he suggested someone could have hacked it. 
But first, his online banking was secure, needing two-factor authentication such as Mr As 
physical card  which he still had with him, as well as a card reader and his security details. 
And in any case, no one logged into Mr As online banking  or even tried to log into it  in 
the time leading up to the loan application or the weeks that followed. So there was no one 
trying to use his online banking to receive or spend the loan funds. As far as I can see, the 
only logins in all of 2018 were from Mr As normal device, using his correct authentication. It 
appears that the only person who couldve reasonably expected to spend the loan funds 
using Mr As online banking was Mr A himself.The loan being set up to pay into Mr As bank account raises further issues, too. If  as the 
evidence indicates  no one other than Mr A couldve reasonably accessed his account, then 
no one other than Mr A wouldve had any good reason to apply for a loan to be paid to him. 
But even if I accept that someone else had access to Mr As card and PIN or online banking, 
and if I accept they were trying to defraud him, then it doesnt seem to make sense that they 
never used this to try any other fraud again. Once they saw the loan had been declined, they 
could have tried to take smaller credit elsewhere, or could have easily spent Mr As money, 
or maxed out his overdraft, and so on. It seems most implausible that someone would go to 
all the effort of stealing Mr As identity in so much detail, taking large risks to do so, gaining 
access to his passport, email account, and bank account  only to never then use this for 
their own benefit.
Further, if someone had access to Mr As bank account, there was little need for them to 
have forged bank statements. They couldve used his card and PIN or online banking to 
produce genuine ones. The main purpose of the forgery appears to have been to make 
Mr As financial situation look better. Its not completely implausible that a fraudster would do 
this, but it wouldve added unnecessary risk for them. Whereas it would have potentially 
benefitted Mr A if it was him applying for the loan and he was worried about not getting it. 
Ive also noted that the doctored statements do have some of Mr As genuine details on 
them and appear to have been put together quite accurately  matching formatting and 
technical details from Mr As bank. It looks like in order to put these together, the person 
would have needed to copy from genuine statements.
Given all that Ive said above, I think we can safely rule out that an unknown fraudster 
applied for this loan in Mr As name. Theres no plausible way they had access to Mr As 
passport  they would need to have broken into Mr As home, found his passport, and taken 
it without him noticing and without them stealing anything else. And since Mr A still has his 
passport, they would also need to have broken into his home again just to return it to him  
when thered be no reason for a third-party thief to do so. It also doesnt seem likely that an 
unknown thief could have known all of the genuine details on the loan application. And there 
was no plausible way they could have both taken Mr As card  which he still had afterwards 
 and learned his PIN, which wasnt recorded or shared. And no one was accessing his 
online banking. So an unknown thief wouldve had no way to spend the loan money.
It is possible that someone known to Mr A could have applied for this loan without his 
permission. Technically, someone Mr A knew could have gradually gathered his details and 
passport while visiting his home, and they could have spied on him entering his PIN at some 
point and planned to steal his card. But I dont think thats likely. It would have been very 
difficult indeed for them to have gained access to the amount of data and security details 
involved here, and to have stolen Mr As card and passport and returned them to him without 
Mr A ever noticing anything was wrong. It still doesnt make sense for them to have put down 
Mr As genuine contact details and risked him learning about the fraud. And it still seems 
implausible for them to have gone to all that length of stealing his identity, only to ask for the 
money to be paid to Mr A and then to never go through with defrauding him. Further, its not 
clear how a friend couldve gained control of Mr As email account  Mr A suggested his 
password couldve been compromised by an unknown hacker, but weve already ruled out 
an unknown party being involved. And Mr A has clarified that he doesnt actually suspect 
anyone he knows of doing this  he only mentioned a particular friend before as he felt under 
pressure to name someone. So Mr A himself does not seem to think this was a likely 
possibility, either.I do also need to bear in mind that this loan was applied for to pay for a wedding  and Mr A 
was indeed preparing to get married at the time. Mr A could have really benefitted from the 
loan, so it seems both likely and plausible that he couldve applied for it himself. Certainly 
Ive not seen anything which makes me think its implausible that he applied for it.
I have also looked carefully at the emails between the applicant and Lending Works. The 
person applying for the loan wrote in the same distinctive style as Mr A, using similar or 
identical phrases and making the same grammar mistakes.
In summary, Mr As genuine details, passport, phone and email, and bank account were 
used to apply for this loan. Lending Works corresponded with someone who wrote in the 
same distinctive way as Mr A via his genuine email address, and spoke to someone on the 
phone who was able to pass security as Mr A. The loan was set up to be paid to Mr A to 
cover a genuine life event of his. And it would have been very difficult for anyone other than 
Mr A to have benefitted from the loan or the way it was applied for. Based on the evidence, 
there isnt a plausible way an unknown person couldve been defrauding Mr A. And there 
isnt a likely way that someone known to Mr A did all this without his permission, either  
indeed, Mr A himself seems to have now put aside that possibility. That leaves only one 
likely possibility  that Mr A applied for the loan in question and gave Lending Works altered 
statements. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Mr A to receive. But given the evidence and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen so far, I think Lending Works acted fairly in registering the 
CIFAS marker against Mr A.
Lastly, I understand that Mr A was unhappy that Lending Works spoke to his bank to check 
his application. But Lending Works were entitled to do so, and they did nothing wrong there. 
I also understand that Mr A is unhappy with his own bank  but this complaint is against 
Lending Works. He can complain to his own bank separately if he so wishes.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
8 June 2021. Both sides confirmed they had nothing further to add, though Mr A reiterated 
that he had told the truth.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case carefully, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that is: given the weight of the 
substantial evidence involved, I think it was fair for Lending Works to register the CIFAS 
marker here.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman