DRN-3389282
The complaint
Mr B complains that he couldnt sell his shares through Equiniti Financial Services Limited 
(EQi), either online or by phone. And he says he couldnt contact EQi  it didnt reply to his 
emails, or answer the phone, and it didnt phone him as hed requested 
What happened
Mr B has an execution only share dealing account with EQi. On 24 February 2021 he 
wanted to sell some shares in a US exchange traded fund which Ill refer to as A. He tried 
using the mobile dealing app a number of times, and for various volumes, but he couldnt get 
a quote. He managed to sell his holding over the following days but says hes lost around 
US$30,000 because of price movements.
He says he didnt receive a reply to his request for an online chat; he gave up trying to call 
after 30 minutes; and that he didnt receive a reply to his emails.
EQi said valid quotes werent found due to the requested volume or price not being 
available. It apologised for the difficulty Mr B experienced in trying to contact its helpline. It 
paid him £75 compensation for the time it took to clarify the matter. Mr B wasnt happy with 
EQis response, so it investigated further. It said it wasnt liable for Mr B not being able to sell 
A shares on 24 February. But it accepted the level of information on its app could have been 
better  if Mr B had tried to trade online he would have received a route to dealer option 
which is not available on its app. It apologised and offered compensation of £750, in addition 
to the £75 already paid.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
EQi relied on the market maker, or makers, to provide quotes and that EQi wasnt liable for 
Mr B not receiving a quote when he requested one. He sympathised with the difficulty Mr B 
had in contacting EQi, but thought the compensation offer was fair and reasonable, and 
above that which would have been suggested by this service.
Mr B didnt agree. He said, in summary that:
The service EQi received from the market makers was poor. It wasnt acceptable that he 
couldnt get a quote for even one share in a large fund.
He sent eight emails to EQi and called twice but got no reply. There should be some 
responsibility on EQi to man its phones during US trading hours.
EQi should put him back in the position he would have been in if hed been able to sell 
shares on 24 February 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for the following reasons:
In common with most trading platforms, EQi is reliant on price feeds from one or more 
market makers. Im satisfied that Mr Bs inability to get a price for his proposed sale was 
caused by the lack of a price from its market makers. I dont find EQi was responsible for 
Mr B not being able to trade.
EQi told Mr B the lack of a price was due to requested volume/and or requested price not 
being available. And it told us this was due to market volatility. I can see it didnt receive a 
particularly helpful email from its third-party pricing provider and it might have helped Mr B if 
he could have been given some more detail about why a price wasnt available. I can see 
that, on the day he was trying to sell, there was a record redemption from the fund. It seems 
most likely to me that this unprecedented situation was the reason for the market makers 
being unable to provide a quote for the sales Mr B wanted to place.
In the circumstances, I dont find EQi is responsible for the price unavailability that Mr B 
experienced. It follows that I cant order it to put Mr B in the position hed be in if he had been 
able to obtain a quote.
Mr B tried to contact EQi by several methods. It apologised that Mr B experienced difficulties 
in contacting it. Although it noted that Mr B had phoned outside of its call opening times and 
that when Mr B did call during office hours, he only held on the line for just over six minutes. 
I appreciate Mr B feels that help should be available from EQi during US market opening 
hours. But this isnt a service that it offers, and Im satisfied that its published its phone line 
opening hours and that Mr B would reasonably have been aware of these before he agreed 
to open an account.  
EQi recognised that its app didnt give Mr B the option for his deal to be routed to a dealer to 
execute. And it offered to pay him compensation of £750 because the level of information on 
its app wasnt the same as that on its online service. Mr B said it was aware the route to 
dealer facility was available on EQis website but that he didnt want to leave an at best 
order. So it seems he wouldnt have used that service even if it had been available. 
I appreciate how frustrating this experience was for Mr B. He had a large holding of A shares 
and he obviously wanted to take advantage of market movements to make a profit. But 
I cant hold EQi responsible for him not being able to sell when he wanted to. EQi paid Mr B 
£75 compensation and has offered to pay him a further £750. I find this to be fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Equiniti Financial Services Limited should pay Mr B £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman