DRN-3073058
The complaint
Ms S complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
Services (Argos) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms S took out a credit card online with Argos in June 2012. Over the next few years, Argos 
applied multiple increases to Ms Ss credit limit. 
Ms S is unhappy and feels Argos increased her credit limit irresponsibly. She has said she 
struggled to even meet the minimum payments and was also receiving benefits at the times 
the increases were given. 
Argos explained that all customers opt in for future automatic credit limit increases when 
they apply for credit. And that under the terms of the account, they can change the credit 
limit at any time and the customer can tell them if they dont agree to the increase. Argos 
also said that if a customer doesnt opt out, they will increase the credit limit providing they 
meet internal and external checks. 
Argos have said they use credit scoring to predict the future conduct of an account based on 
past performance of similar accounts, and that they review information held by credit 
reference agencies to come up with a level of risk before deciding how much to lend. They 
said they always make sure the limit is deemed affordable, based on the information 
available to them. 
Argos explained that when Ms S applied for the card in June 2012, affordability checks were 
carried out which suggested Ms S was capable of making the repayments. They said that 
Ms S was up to date with her payments until December 2015, when she started to miss 
them. 
At the time of each increase, Argos explained that they used internal and external 
information to decide on whether or not to offer further credit. They explained they would 
only provide an increase where a customer is up to date with payments, not falling behind, 
and not at a high risk of financial difficulty. They said that at each increase Ms S satisfied all 
relevant criteria. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the first increase given in February 2014 was done 
irresponsibly, as Ms S had missed payments and her account had gone into arrears three 
months prior to the increase. He explained that the necessary checks could not have been 
carried out, as if they had been, Argos would have noticed that Ms S was possibly in some 
difficulty. Because of this, he asked Argos to refund any fees and charges that occurred as a 
result of the February 2014 increase, and remove any adverse data that may have been 
recorded as a result. However, he felt all subsequent increases had been applied fairly, with 
Argos carrying out the necessary checks.  
Ms S disagreed and explained that she had told Argos many times on the phone that she 
was struggling financially, meaning they were aware of her financial difficulties and shouldnt 
have lent to her further. 
Because of this the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Ms Ss complaint to our service covers points regarding items ordered from Argos 
and refunds given. However in my decision I am only looking into the irresponsible lending 
aspect of her complaint.  
Having considered everything, I believe all credit increases were applied irresponsibly and 
that the correct/necessary checks werent done. 
Ms S took out her card in June 2012 with a credit limit of £450. The increases were then 
applied as follows: 
February 2014 - £650
January 2015 - £780 
June 2015 - £940
January 2018 - £1,410
August 2018 - £2,120
July 2019 - £2,134
I sent several emails to Argos setting out my provisional thoughts on this complaint. I 
explained that having looked through everything, I didnt have enough evidence to show that 
proportionate checks were carried out in relation to any of the credit limit increases. 
Ms S's limit was increased multiple times, and I can't see anything to show that proportionate 
checks were done before each increase was made. For example, I can't see that an income 
and expenditure was ever carried out prior to any of them. I think it would have been 
reasonable to do this, along with more in-depth checks, especially given the issues that were 
found on the conduct of the account before the first increase was made  the missed 
payments and arrears as highlighted in the investigator's view.
 
I have also seen a screenshot of a bank statement from the end of 2019/start of 2020, which 
shows Ms S was running very close to her overdraft (£545 against a limit of £600). It also 
shows a DWP payment, which looks as though it may be a monthly one, and other spending 
looks to be minimal. This statement supports what Ms S has said, in that she was on 
benefits, on a tight budget and had to rely on family members to meet payments. And while I 
appreciate that someone being in receipt of benefits doesn't mean a bank shouldn't lend, 
from what I have seen Im persuaded she was in difficulty. 
I can see that Argos has said it carried out external credit checks, but even though an outline 
of the checks carried out has been provided, Argos havent provided any evidence to support what they have said. I havent got anything showing the specific results of the 
checks for each increase over the years, only a CII score. Because of this I cant safely say 
that the correct level of checks were done. 
I appreciate that the bank statement provided by Ms S doesnt cover the full period of the 
increases. We have asked Ms S if she would be able to give us some more information 
about her income and expenditure for the dates covering the increases, however shes not 
provided this. But I am mindful that we would be asking her to give us information going back 
so many years when we wouldnt expect the bank to hold information for this long. And with 
cases like this, it is for the bank to show they did the correct checks, not for the customer to 
prove they didnt. 
Argos have said Ms S requested two of the increases. While I understand this and agree, it 
doesnt mean that they should have been given. The necessary checks still should have 
been carried out to see whether the increases would have been affordable. 
Argos have also said that they use bureau data from Experian to gain a CII score. They also 
mention Ms Ss Delphi score and internal risk score. But I dont know what dates these 
scores refer to. I also cant say whether these scoring measures are correct. I think its most 
likely that the scores provided relate to when Ms S applied for the card, and not at each 
increase. From the information I have, we only have the CII score for each increase, which, 
to me, wouldnt constitute as enough. 
When the opinion was given on this case by our investigator, we established that the first 
increase was applied irresponsibly. There were a number of missed payments and the 
account was in arrears. So if the checks carried out didnt pick up this information, and if    
Ms Ss financial position didnt change in the years ahead (as supported by the Santander 
statement), I cant say with any certainty that the checks Argos carried out were 
proportionate. 
Ms S has let us know that she was making the minimum payments, she was receiving 
financial help from her family to help pay bills, and she was receiving benefit payments. She 
has also mentioned that she explained her financial situation to Argos on the phone a 
number of times. Although I havent received any call recordings, given what Ms S has said, 
this sounds credible.  
Given what I have at the moment, I can't say that the increases were applied fairly or that 
proportionate checks were done before each increase was given. It looks as though Ms S 
was only making minimum payments, and there is some evidence of persistent debt, which 
was followed by a credit increase. Her statements show that she was regularly at the top end 
of her credit limit and we have already seen that the first increase was given after she had 
missed payments and defaulted on her account.
 
Because of this, I think more in-depth checks should have been carried out before the 
increases were authorised, and I havent seen any evidence to show that this was done. 
Sometimes when we look into unaffordable lending cases it's clear that a customer is given 
the option to refuse an increase, or even ask for their limit to be lowered. However we 
wouldn't say that this means the lending was applied fairly. When someone is struggling 
financially, they usually take what they are given as they feel they need it. 
From everything I have, it looks like Ms S has paid back what she owes and it's just the 
interest/charges outstanding. I believe that all interest and charges should be refunded, as I 
can't see anything to suggest that reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out 
before each increase was applied and, had they been, I think its unlikely that Argos would have increased Ms Ss credit limit on any of the occasions mentioned above. 8% interest 
should also be awarded on any amount of interest and charges Ms S has actually paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card Services should do the 
following to put things right for Ms S:
Rework Ms Ss account to ensure that from February 2014 onwards interest is only 
charged on the first £450, to reflect the fact that no credit limit increases should have 
been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed;
And
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have been 
made, Argos should contact Ms S to arrange a suitable repayment plan. If Argos
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Ss credit file, it should
backdate this to February 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms S, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after 
all adjustments have been made, then Argos should remove any adverse information 
from Ms Ss credit file.
Argos should show Ms S what theyve done to work out the above.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Argos to take off tax from this interest. Argos must give 
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022. 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman