DRN-3665802
The complaint
A representative complains on behalf of Mr B that Clear Capital Markets Limited (CCM) 
inappropriately invested a £5,856 dealing account within his SIPP in a small number of 
Alternative Investment Market (AIM) shares which were too volatile and lacked 
diversification. It says CCM should have recommended a low-risk, well diversified portfolio 
within his SIPP, and that the value of the shares has since fallen significantly.
What happened
Mr Bs representative says that in 2018 he was a Warehouse Manager aged 48 and earning 
around £18,000. He had no significant savings - I note CCM recorded £13,000 in cash 
savings on its fact find, however that appears to include the value of his SIPP. The 
representative also says he had no investment experience, whereas CCM recorded that he 
had experience of trading in mainstream and small capitalisation / AIM shares of up to 
£5,000, up to 3 times a month. However, CCM also recorded that Mr B had limited 
understanding of general financial and economic affairs. CCM says its information was 
consistently recorded in fact finds that Mr B signed both in December 2018 and June 2020. 
It appears that earlier in 2016, Mr B had originally been recommended to transfer his existing 
personal pensions worth £45,000 into a SIPP by an independent financial adviser (IFA). The 
SIPP was used to trade in what appear to be high risk AIM shares. Mr B was then 
encouraged to move to what became known as Hartley SIPP in 2017 and for a while made 
trades in Contracts for Difference using a different firm known at that time as Central 
Markets (London), now Sequant Capital  in liquidation. As a result of this high risk activity 
by 2018, Mr B seems to have only had £6,000 in his trading account.
CCM provided a large number of phone calls with Mr B, which were not timestamped 
(according to how they appear on our case-handling system). However Ive begun by 
reviewing what it calls the onboarding calls and in particular one call that seems to be the 
first made to Mr B from one of CCMs directors in 2018.
The director was aware that Sequant had written to Mr B a day earlier to say it was no longer 
able to offer dealing services in his SIPP. He reiterated what the letter seems to have 
already said, that CCM had entered into an arrangement to take over the management of 
clients accounts should they so desire. Sequants letter had enclosed a power of attorney 
for Mr B to complete for CCM to manage his account instead. The call referred to putting 
more beneficial arrangements in place for Mr B, suggesting (which is a point Ill come back 
to) that CCM was aware Mr B had lost money when dealing with Sequant.
From the other onboarding calls Ive listened to, it appears CCM ultimately abandoned the 
possibility of trading through the Saxo account in the Hartley SIPP due to poor engagement 
it was getting with Hartley. During several calls it explained to Mr B that things would likely 
go more smoothly by making a transfer to an Intelligent Money SIPP and using the SVS 
Securities platform. Mr B indicated in the calls he was happy to make these changes.
In October 2018 Mr B completed a Power of Attorney over an investment account with SVS 
Capital, and transferred £5,857 over to that platform in late November/early December. CCM 
disagrees that the power of attorney was necessary because this was an advisory account 
(meaning it would make recommendations to Mr B which he then accepted), and it disputes 
that it was ever provided with this document.
CCMs own application form had crosses against all three of the services it might provide 
(execution only, advisory and discretionary). It noted that Mr B owned his own home worth 
£350,000 with no outstanding mortgage. Following a risk mapping exercise, it concluded he 
could afford to risk 5% of the total value of his home and cash savings, coming to £18,150. 
Medium was selected for his attitude to risk, meaning that (in CCMs view) up to 50% of that 
£18,150 risk capital could be invested in high risk products. The form also specified that 
Mr B was willing to invest over anything from one day to the long-term, and in many types of 
alternative markets (other than Contracts for Difference, Indices or Options). The form went 
through a range of risk warnings which were acknowledged before the form was signed by 
Mr B on 7 December 2018. The following trades were then made on the account:
Jubilee Metals - £5,500 of shares bought on 24 December 2018, 90% of which were then 
progressively sold up to 11 January 2019 - realising £243 profit (after commission) on the sold 
portion.
Altitude Group  Up to £961 worth of shares bought and resold in two trades in January and 
February 2019. Total profit realised after commission of £196.
Prospex Oil & Gas - £5,400 of shares bought on 18 March 2019, of which 13% was sold on 30 
April 2019, realising £33 profit (after commission) on the sold portion.
SVS Securities subsequently went into FSCS default, and the remaining £817 cash balance 
was transferred to a newly appointed platform (ITI Capital) in June 2020.
CCMs risk mapping exercise was repeated in June 2020, resulting in Mr B being willing to 
risk 10% of his (now-reduced) house value of £325,000 and cash assets said to be worth 
£45,000. But he now had a low attitude to risk  meaning that (in CCMs view) he could only 
invest 25% of that £36,800 risk capital in high-risk products. Somewhat illogically, he was 
now prepared to invest in Contracts For Difference, Indices and Options too. On this 
occasion the documentation confirmed Mr B would only be receiving an advisory service. 
The following further trades were then made (these may not take into account commission 
which is less clear on the ITI platform):
Jubilee Metals  the remaining 10% of shares were sold for £3,216 in January 2021, realising a 
further profit on that portion of £2,638. 
Prospex Oil & Gas - all remaining shares were then sold for £2,033 in January 2021, realising a 
loss on that portion of £2,901.
Xtrt Reso  £180 profit was made buying and selling the same number of shares on 4 February 
2021. 
Mast Energy  £5,916 of shares were purchased on 19 April 2021, leaving £304 of cash in the 
account. 20% of these were sold for £288 on 17 October 2022 in order to meet SIPP fees. At their 
April 2023 prices, the remaining shares are worth about £430 and there is about £30 in cash. Mast 
Energy is still trading.
The representative complained to CCM in November 2021. CCM responded that it had 
never acted for Mr B on a discretionary basis, and these shares were traded precisely 
because it advised Mr B to, and he agreed to, make them. It has provided a copy of its email 
to Mr B on 4 December 2018 confirming that it had opened his account on an advisory basis.Our investigator spoke to Mr B and his representative in July 2022. They confirmed that Mr B 
had already claimed to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the IFA 
who had originally transferred Mr Bs personal pensions into the first the SIPP (Quantum 
International). Mr B has received compensation that is capped at the point he switched 
SIPPs in 2017. So, it doesnt relate to the period CCM was involved. Mr B said he was 
unhappy that he wasnt given an option to stop this form of trading when CCM took over 
from Sequant, and he doesnt understand what has happened to his account.
Our investigator thought that CCM should never have opened an account for Mr B. In 
summary, they said:
CCM went through risk warnings and used a lot of jargon around AIM, IPOs, and other 
types of investment in its fact-finding calls, but nowhere on the calls was Mr Bs 
understanding of what he was signing up for assessed.
When it initially asked Mr B how much of his net wealth he could afford to lose, Mr B 
clarified if CCM meant how much of his SIPP - which was a more relevant question. 
But instead CCM focused on all his wealth, even though most of that was in his main 
residence and he only had £13,000 in savings.
When Mr B said he could only afford to lose 1% (£3,630), CCM said it may not be able 
to make recommendations on that basis. Mr B then asked what was the lowest figure, 
and CCM saying it cant put words in your mouth but the lowest is 5%. 
The questions in the fact-finding call were devised to ensure customers didnt take out 
products that werent suitable, yet CCM led Mr B into doing precisely that. Mr B was 
also led into responding to the question are you a medium risk investor without being 
given explanations of what the other available risk levels were.
The revised 5% figure would potentially wipe out all of Mr Bs pension and cash 
savings. It also potentially meant that an amount equivalent to Mr Bs entire pension 
could be invested in the high-risk 50% of the overall medium classification. This was 
not treating Mr B fairly or acting in his best interests.
The first three recommendations traded were all AIM shares in a way which exceeded 
Mr Bs true attitude to, and capacity for risk. Mr B never called CCM to make a trade 
and wouldnt have ever sought CCM out if it hadnt contacted him.
CCM didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
Mr B was already invested and trading in the stock market, giving him trading 
experience, and CCM provided him with a platform for him to continue if he so chose.
Mr B shows his understanding of what CCM told him at multiple points during the call 
recordings and confirmed that he would read the literature CCM would send him. 
It had no reason to believe Mr Bs answers were incorrect during the calls, and hadnt 
put words into his mouth.
The investigator had misunderstood its risk model for assessing suitability. This didnt 
mean Mr B would need to remortgage his house in order to proceed with the advice.
Mr B had agreed to continue with CCM after the first year, even though his positions 
were slightly down. His complaint seemed to have been prompted by the 
representative.
The amount Mr B had lost at the time of the complaint fell well within what he said he 
could afford to. CCM had only put 31% of his assessed risk capital into the markets.
The fact that the funds Mr B had lost were held within a pension plan was irrelevant.
If he wasnt able to trade with CCM, it believed Mr B would likely have opened an 
account with another broker and continued to trade.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Sequant does appear to have written to Mr B outlining CCMs services beforehand, 
its clear to me that the client relationship here was initiated by CCM then calling Mr B, rather 
than the other way around. Whether this was technically a cold call or not is somewhat 
moot. I still need to consider whether CCM should have assessed the trading account as 
being suitable for Mr B. And if not, what Mr B would likely have done instead.
Having listened to the first fact finding call which took place with Mr B in 2018 (after the 
onboarding calls), I agree he had a friendly rapport with CCMs representative. But at most 
points he showed little interest in talking around the subjects being discussed and the risk 
warnings given, other than to confirm his answers with yep. Mr B later took the opportunity 
to ask for the key information to be sent to him in writing rather than continuing to have it 
read out to him. And having listened to his discussions with our investigator I think this is 
because Mr Bs knowledge of what was being discussed was limited. He didnt have any 
involvement in the financial industry and was educated to GCSE level. 
CCM did note that was the case at the time  the experience it recorded of him investing, 
as such, was essentially of somebody else doing that for him. He told the representative in 
the call that someone from Sequant had rung him with suggestions 3-4 times a month. I note 
that the reason the execution-only and discretionary management options were ticked was 
to keep these potentially open for the future. The representative explained that some of the 
trades CCM would be making were settled on a T20 basis  meaning that Mr B could 
acquire the shares now but wouldnt have to pay for 20 days. Again, Im not sure Mr B would 
have appreciated the benefits (and risks) of doing this for himself.
I said I would return to the fact that CCM had some knowledge that Mr B had previously 
suffered losses with Sequant. He told the representative that his SIPP value (believed to be 
£8,000) was a lot more but someone lost a lot of money in it  to which the representative 
immediately responded was it with Sequant CapitalIve heard a few of those. When filling 
in the fact find in this call, CCM also seems to have amalgamated the SIPPs value with 
Mr Bs £5,000 savings to arrive at the £13,000 figure for what he held in cash.
In my view, the observations the investigator made about Mr B being led here into agreeing 
to accept losses of up to 5% of his net wealth, and to having a medium risk profile, are 
accurate. Whilst its natural that Mr B would ask what the lowest amount CCM would accept 
was, after it said that 1% was too low, I dont think CCM was treating Mr B fairly by then 
proceeding on the assumption that 5% was then acceptable. Mr Bs SIPP had been left in 
limbo by the departure of the previous broker, and Mr B wasnt being offered any 
alternatives.
The fact remains that Mr B had initially expressed more caution in only being willing to risk 
1% or £3,630. Thats consistent with the fact he had seen his SIPPs value fall from £45,000 
to around £8,000. And I think CCM persuaded Mr B agree to risk 5% with comments such as 
make sure youre comfortable with this before I say it, 5%, that goes to £18,150, you cant 
even lose that with us anyway because you havent got that on accountIf you lost £18,000 
could you still survive?. 
Whilst Mr B then said yep to this, an overall risk assessment isnt just about how much 
someone (on heavy encouragement it has to be said here) says they can afford to lose. I 
think CCMs assessment of his attitude to risk was equally flawed. I agree with the investigator that Mr B was prompted into accepting the medium risk category without being 
offered any alternatives. Nor was he given enough information to understand that CCMs 
definition of medium risk  bearing in mind that it would be recommending single shares on 
AIM markets  was somewhat different to the wider spread of investments that would 
generally be considered suitable for a medium risk profile. 
I dont think that conventionally, investing almost an entire portfolio (nearly £6,000) in 
directly-held shares, even blue-chip shares, would be considered a medium risk strategy. I 
say this as I also dont agree that the SIPP should have just been amalgamated with all of 
Mr Bs other wealth (most of which was tied up in his home). The pension is for a discrete 
purpose  providing benefits in retirement. Had CCM asked Mr B for more information about 
what he had recently lost in his pension  of which it had already learnt a little  it would 
know he was originally some way towards having meaningful benefits with £45,000. But this 
had been decimated by the actions of previous advisers and managers. So he could ill afford 
to lose any more by making similar high risk investments to those hed done previously.
I also cant say that Mr B would reasonably have appreciated that CCM then gained a 
mandate to make single investments of up to £5,000 in AIM shares by combining his 
willingness to put up to £18,000 at risk (even though he didnt have £18,000 to invest), with 
the fact that 50%  in its view  could be invested in high risk assets under a medium risk 
profile. There wasnt adequate explanation in the phone call where Mr B agreed to a medium 
risk that this was going to be the case, and the risk category was not defined at this time.
Having considered what transpired during these calls, I think CCM should have appreciated 
that whilst Mr B had been a customer of Sequant, that didnt automatically mean he was an 
appropriate fit for the services CCM was going to offer, for all the reasons Ive given above. 
And to add to this, his funds were now so low in size that the fixed SIPP annual account fee 
 which CCM has told us was £195  would make operating a portfolio of this size much less 
competitive. It amounted to a hurdle rate of 3.25% on a portfolio of, say, £6,000 to achieve 
any growth  and that was before the additional commissions CCM would take.
Im also satisfied that the only reason CCM was able to get him through its risk scoring 
process was by encouraging or leading him into answering questions differently to his 
natural inclination. That meant that it wasnt acting in Mr Bs best interests (COBS 2.1.1R). 
Nor was it conducting its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2), or paying 
due regard to its customers interests or information needs (Principles 6 and 7). 
Whilst my findings could therefore stop at that point  because in my view Mr B should not 
have been trading in AIM and similar stocks through CCM at all  Ive needed to further 
consider causation. That is, whether (as CCM has argued) Mr B would likely have gone on 
to trade in some other way. To do this Ive listened to other calls Mr B had with CCM 
including the advisory trading calls.
These calls are characterised by a lot of talking from CCM and only brief words of 
agreement from Mr B. He rarely made qualitative comments on the explanations he was 
getting about the prospects CCM saw in the proposed investments, only very occasionally 
adding that they sounded like good investments or were something he had heard of (e.g. the 
market in renewable energy for the Mast Energy trade). Mr Bs main vocal contributions 
were to the pleasantries exchanged at the beginning of most calls. He never questioned or 
challenged any of CCMs recommendations, because its clear to me that he didnt have the 
knowledge or expertise to do so. On the basis of this I find it highly unlikely that Mr B would 
have proceeded to trade, had it not been for CCMs inappropriate encouragement to do so. 
I do accept that if, strictly, CCM had refused to get involved with Mr B at all, a question might 
arise as to how he would have exited the holdings he was in under Sequant (which CCM helped him to close down), in order to invest more appropriately. However in my view thats 
the wrong starting point. It wouldnt have been consistent with CCMs regulatory obligations 
 noting those under COBS and PRIN Ive mentioned above  for CCM to abandon Mr B, 
having identified that he was invested in high-risk alternative stocks that didnt fit with his 
attitude to and capacity for risk. It had already undertaken (with his agreement) to look into 
what sort of investments would be suitable for him.
There was nothing preventing CCM from making more conventional investments (such as a 
mixture of bonds and larger capitalisation shares, or indeed managed funds that further 
spread the risk). But if that was not a line of business it was prepared to get involved in, then 
having established that Mr B was invested inappropriately I consider there would have been 
an obligation on CCM to refer him to another adviser or recommend he got advice or 
guidance himself, perhaps from a government body such as the Pensions Advisory Service. 
Had CCM done any of these things, I think that would have set Mr B on the path to investing 
more appropriately, in line with his attitude to risk.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr B back into the position he would most 
likely have been in, had CCM not encouraged him to make large trades in AIM and other 
similar shares within his pension. There isnt a single identifiable investment or investments 
Mr B would have made instead of CCMs portfolio. The investigator proposed that Mr B 
would most likely have achieved a return in line with the FTSE Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index. 
I think that is a reasonable proposal as it reflects the typical mixture of assets someone who 
was willing to take some risk (but not the high risks involved in CCMs proposals) would have 
made. Ive had regard for Mr Bs age (48) and length of time to retirement, meaning that he 
could afford to take more risk within his pension than (say) his low amount of other cash 
assets. It doesnt mean Mr B would have invested exactly in line with this index, which is a 
composite of about 60% in shares and 40% in bonds. But Im satisfied that its a reasonable 
benchmark to use as a proxy for the range of investments he might have made had it not 
been for CCMs advice.
What must Clear Capital Markets Limited do?
To compensate Mr B fairly Clear Capital Markets Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr Bs investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, it should pay into Mr Bs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. This payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. CCM shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If CCM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Bs expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
As Mr B would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start
date")To ("end
date")Additional
interest
SVS 
Securities 
subsequently 
ITI Capital Shares in 
Mast 
Energy & 
residual 
cashFTSE Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index28 November 
2018Date of 
my final 
decision8% per year simple 
from the date of my 
final decision if not 
settled within 28 
days of receipt of 
Mr Bs acceptance
I indicated above that since Mr B invested, the share price of Mast Energy has fallen 
significantly. But Im persuaded that Mr B only has these shares as a result of CCMs advice. 
Indeed, it has recently told us that CCMs objective was to hold this investment for the 
medium to long term. That has led to the position for Mr B to worsen, as it currently stands.
If the shares cannot readily be sold on the open market, I require CCM to purchase them 
from the portfolio as part of the compensation and include the amount it pays into the 
portfolio for the shares as part of its value. If CCM is unable to purchase the shares and they 
cannot readily be sold on the open market, CCM must treat the shares as having a nil value 
when valuing the portfolio.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If CCM considers that its required by
HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much it has taken off. 
It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax on this interest from HMRC if appropriate.
The investigator also proposed that CCM should pay Mr B £200 for the distress caused 
when he had feared he had lost his pension. In response, CCM has suggested that the 
complaint was prompted by the representative and not Mr B. Its sent us recordings of phone 
calls where it discussed the nature of Mr Bs complaint with him. Ive listened to those calls, 
which werent time-stamped - but the content of one of them appears to be between the 
representative complaining on 5 November 2021 and CCM responding to the complaint on 8 
December 2021.
In this call, CCM was reassuring Mr B that his shares in Mast Energy were still worth around 
the £5,000 he paid for them. From what I can see, over the month mentioned above, the 
share price fell from 11.625p to 9.1p. This isnt vastly lower than the 12.5p Mr B originally 
paid for the shares so I can partly see CCMs point. But it seems to have forgotten that 20% 
of the shares had already been sold to pay ongoing fees. And I think that was one of the 
main problems with this arrangement. 
Im not questioning CCMs expertise in identifying some shares that performed reasonably 
well, but after all the charges being taken Mr B wasnt actually seeing much if any growth on 
his portfolio. And he would likely have achieved more growth in lower-cost insured funds that 
were more suited to the low value he had in his arrangement. He didnt necessarily need the 
SIPP with relatively high annual charges at Intelligent Money to invest in those funds.Mr B did say in this call that his complaint originally was with the adviser who originally 
recommended this method of investing (in 2016). But that doesnt mean he didnt (on his 
representatives advice) have a complaint against CCM. CCM rather underlines the 
contradiction in its position where it comments in the call that Mr B had probably got a very 
strong chance of succeeding with a complaint against his previous adviser, due to the 
amount he had lost from high-risk trading. 
However, the trading CCM was carrying out for Mr B was also high-risk  it may not have 
lost as much money and may have involved different risks to (say) CFDs, but it was in my 
view still inappropriate for Mr B. And at a time when it could have steered Mr B towards more 
appropriate investments in 2018, CCM proceeded to make his position somewhat worse. So, 
I do think it has exacerbated the distress Mr B has suffered  even if other parties originally 
involved played a greater part in those concerns. And Im satisfied £200 is an appropriate 
payment to Mr B to recognise this.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Clear Capital Markets Limited to pay him 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman