DRN-1939609
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs C was sold PPI in connection with a credit card during a phone call in 2003.
The PPI cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 10% of 
the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs C was off work 
sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mrs C didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked if Mrs C was eligible for the policy and from what I understand of       
Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of the sale Im satisfied that she was eligible.
Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mrs C that the PPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to her account. Mrs C says that she had no knowledge that PPI 
had been applied to her account. She says that even if PPI had been discussed on the 
phone (she doesnt recall the phone call) she wouldnt have agreed to taking it out as it was 
unnecessary or she would have only agreed to taking it out if she was led to believe it was 
necessary for her credit application to be accepted.
Barclaycard no longer have a copy of the call recording  this is understandable given how 
long ago the sale took place. But what it does mean is that I cant know for sure what took 
place during the sale. So Ive thought carefully about what Mrs C has told us and looked to 
the evidence available from around the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely 
to have happened. 
Barclays have provided us with call scripts from around the time of the sale which show that 
the representative would have been required to ask if Mrs C wanted PPI and PPI would only 
have been applied to the account if Mrs C had agreed to take it out. Theres nothing in this 
script which would have prompted the representative to lead Mrs C to believe that she would 
have to take PPI out to get the credit.
Given what this transcript says, and the (understandable) lack of specific detail surrounding 
Mrs Cs recollection of the sale, I am unable to conclude that its more likely that PPI wasnt 
presented as optional or that it was applied to the account without Mrs Cs knowledge.
Barclaycard say they advised Mrs C to take PPI. This means Barclaycard should have 
checked that the PPI was suitable for Mrs C. I dont know if Barclaycard did all they should 
have done to check that the PPI was suitable for Mrs C but I think the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs C anyway. I say this because:
- The policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Cs existing sick pay and for a 
longer period of time. It would also have paid out if Mrs C lost her job.
- Mrs C didnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions and restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the 
policy.
- The PPI was relatively competitively priced and I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest it was unaffordable for Mrs C at the time of the sale.
- Mrs C could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she no 
longer wanted or needed it.
As well as checking the PPI was suitable for Mrs C, Barclaycard also had to give her clear 
information so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs C wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put her off taking it out.
I dont think better information would have put her off taking PPI. I say this for the same 
reasons that I think the PPI was suitable for Mrs C.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Barclaycard mis-sold Mrs C this 
PPI policy.
Mrs C has also questioned the account closure and referred to an account ending in 4005 as 
having an active balance. But from the evidence Ive seen, it appears that the credit card 
account which this PPI complaint relates to was closed in December 2006. The account 
ending 4005 is a different account. So I dont think that the unfair relationship provisions in 
the Consumer Credit Act 2006, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here. This is 
because they only apply to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or 
agreements taken out before then, which were still running on 6 April 2008. 
         
So Barclaycard dont need to refund any of the commission Mrs C paid for the PPI she had 
with her credit card.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Navneet SherOmbudsman