The complaint
Mr B says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr B between April 
2011 and April 2012. They were repayable in six monthly instalments, except loan 3 which 
had a five-month term. This is a summary of Mr Bs lending history from Lending Stream. 
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 05/04/2011 30/09/2011 300
2 10/05/2011 01/06/2011 180
3 19/09/2011 30/09/2011 150
4 18/10/2011 30/03/2012 220
5 18/12/2011 - 420
6 03/04/2012 - 430
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint in part and thought loan 6 shouldnt have been 
given. Lending Stream accepted this conclusion but Mr B didnt, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
DRN-1727783the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Lending Stream has told us about the affordability and creditworthiness checks it carried out. 
I think these were proportionate for loans 1 to 4. It has provided some of the information it 
gathered, and from that I cant see anything that suggests it should have made different 
lending decisions. So I dont think it was wrong to give Mr B loans 1 to 4.
But I think by loan 5 Lending Stream should have increased the level of checks it was 
carrying out, and done more to independently check Mr Bs financial position. 
However, whilst I think it should have carried out more comprehensive checks from loan 5 
onwards, I havent any evidence to allow me to conclude that that better information would 
have made a difference to its lending decision. We asked Mr B for copies of his credit file 
and bank statements, so we could understand what proportionate checks would have shown 
Lending Stream. He has provided his credit file but, primarily because of the age of his 
loans, this hasnt shown anything that I think means Lending Stream shouldnt have lent to 
Mr B. He has been unable to provide the relevant bank statements. So I have limited 
information about his overall financial situation. This means I cant say that better checks 
would have meant that Lending Stream ought to have reached a different lending decision 
for loan 5. So I cant fairly conclude Lending Stream was wrong to give loan 5 to Mr B. 
Ive then looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr B, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I note Lending Stream accepted this finding from our adjudicator. I say this because:
At this point Lending Stream ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay 
his loans sustainably. Mr B had taken out six loans in 12 months. I think Lending 
Stream ought to have realised at this point that Mr B wasnt using its products as 
intended to help with a short-term cash flow problem, but rather he had a longer term 
financial issue and an ongoing need for credit. 
Loan 6 was given to Mr B within a few days of him repaying loan 4. So Lending 
Stream ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having problems 
managing his money and that Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Bs first loan was for £300 and loan 6 was for £430. At this point Lending Stream 
ought to have known that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Lending Stream. Loan 6 
was taken out 12 months after Mr Bs first. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service a debt to Lending Stream over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr B lost out when Lending Stream gave him loan 6 because this loan unfairly 
prolonged Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit intended for short-
term use over an extended period of time. The number of loans and length of time he 
borrowed over was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access 
mainstream credit, potentially keeping him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 6 and Lending Stream must put things right.
Putting things right 
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) It should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B) It should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) It should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr B having made 
overpayments then it should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated 
on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. It should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr B. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B. It shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.E) The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded about
that loan is adverse, so Lending Stream should remove this loan entirely from Mr Bs credit
file. Lending Stream does not have to remove the loan from Mr Bs credit file until it has been
repaid, but it should still remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one. If Lending Stream intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr B owes, it must 
do this after tax.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint in part - for loan 6. Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) must put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman