DRN-4081869
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about the time it took Barclays Bank UK PLC to process their 
application for additional borrowing, payments they had to make and the impact on them at a 
difficult time.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S took out a capital and interest repayment mortgage with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC in around 2007. As part of the mortgage, they had to take out a Mortgage Current 
Account (MCA), which allowed them to borrow further funds that were secured against the 
mortgaged property. Interest was charged on the further borrowing at Barclays standard 
variable rate.
In early August 2022, Mr S and Mrs S applied for a further advance on their mortgage of 
around £34,500 - with a fixed interest rate product - to pay off the balance on the MCA. As 
part of the application, Barclays required Mr S and Mrs Ss adult child to sign an occupancy 
form. Unfortunately, Mrs S filled in the form she sent back to Barclays in early September 
wrongly. Although Barclays noticed the mistake, they didnt tell Mr S and Mrs S straight 
away. They only found out when Mrs S chased the progress of the application by phone on 
around 22 September.
Barclays raised a complaint on Mrs Ss behalf since she was unhappy with the delay and the 
interest accruing to the MCA balance. Mrs S understood from speaking to Barclays that no 
further interest would be charged on the MCA and that theyd call later that day to discuss 
her complaint. Barclays sent Mrs S another form to complete. She returned it, correctly filled 
in, the same day.
Mrs S chased Barclays again in early October when shed heard nothing further. They told 
her she and Mr S would need to make a shortfall payment of £586.87 before the further 
advance was released. They made the payment straight away and Barclays released the 
funds on 7 October.
On 11 October Barclays charged interest of £174.26 on the balance of the MCA that had 
been outstanding during the previous month. Mr S and Mrs S complained. Barclays upheld 
the complaint. They said they hadnt been responsible for the mistakes in the occupancy 
form since Mrs S had completed that. But they acknowledged they hadnt told Mrs S about 
the mistake and that had led to delay. And they accepted Mrs S had chased them on several 
occasions. 
Barclays explained Mr S and Mrs S had had to clear a shortfall of £586.87 on the MCA 
before they would release the funds. But they accepted they shouldnt have charged interest 
on the MCA balance before the new mortgage was paid into the account on 7 October as 
theyd told her no further interest would be charged. They acknowledged theyd told Mrs S 
someone would contact her to discuss her complaint. And they apologised that the poor 
experience shed had had affected her wellbeing. 
To put things right Barclays offered Mr S and Mrs S £70.74 to apologise for the poor service 
and to refund the £174.26 interest theyd charged, a total of £245. Mr S and Mrs S didnt 
accept Barclays offer and brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
Mrs S said theyd paid Barclays almost £900 in shortfalls and interest because of their poor 
service and communication. 
Our investigator thought, broadly, the service Barclays provided could have been better. He 
thought they should pay £375 compensation inclusive of the £174.26 interest. Since Mr S 
and Mrs S didnt agree, their complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult time Mr S and Mrs S have been going through. I note they 
were worried about how the balance of the MCA was increasing. And I understand the delay 
in processing the further advance application to pay off the MCA will have added to their 
concerns.
The application for the further advance took around two months in total. Barclays fairly 
acknowledged theyd caused a delay by not letting Mr S and Mrs S know sooner about the 
mistake in the occupancy form. If theyd done that, it looks as though the process could have 
been shortened by around a week or so.
Barclays accepted that Mrs S had understood from what theyd told her that no further 
interest would be charged to the MCA. So, it was fair for Barclays to offer to refund the 
interest  but unfair to have charged it at all.
Barclays required Mr S and Mrs S to pay a shortfall of £586.87 before the further advance 
went ahead. They havent explained clearly how the shortfall was calculated or what it was 
for, although we asked them to. From what theyve said and the MCA statement theyve 
recently provided, it looks as if
on 17 September 2022, there was a balance owing on the MCA of £34,782.42;
Mr S and Mrs S made two payments of £20 each on 6 October 2022 reducing the 
balance to £34,742.42;
interest of £174.26 would be payable on 11 October 2022 for the period 17 
September 2022 to 19 October 2022;
further interest of £100.99 would be due on 10 November 2022 for the period 20 
September 2022 to 18 October 2022; and
the shortfall payment was to cover off the difference between the further advance of 
£34,470.80 they were getting and the MCA balance plus the total interest that would 
fall due of £275.25.
Ill consider any further explanation Barclays wish to provide. Subject to that, I think its right 
Mr S and Mrs S paid any shortfall between the further advance and the MCA balance so 
there was a nil balance, and the account could be closed. But Barclays agreed they wouldnt 
charge Mr S and Mrs S further interest. Whilst they offered to refund the £174.26, Im not 
aware they also offered to refund the £100.99 that would fall due on 10 November 2022. I 
think its fair for Barclays to refund that amount as well in the circumstances. And they 
should also pay interest on those sums from the date Mr S and Mrs S paid the shortfall  6 
October 2022  to the date they are refunded. Given the delays they caused and the poor service they provided, its fair and reasonable 
Barclays should also pay compensation to Mr S and Mrs S. Im mindful of their personal 
circumstances and the stress they were under due to concerns about the level of the MCA 
and interest that was building up. I think the poor service Barclays provided will have further 
impacted their wellbeing, as Barclays acknowledged. Barclays accepted theyd made 
mistakes and tried to put things right quickly. But I dont think they fully addressed the 
issues. Bearing everything in mind I think its fair Barclays should pay compensation of £300 
for distress and inconvenience. 
My provisional decision
To put things right Barclays Bank UK PLC should
1. refund the interest of £275.25 to Mr S and Mrs S;
2. pay simple interest of 8% a year on the £275.25 from 6 October 2022 until the 
refund is paid to Mr S and Mrs S; and
3. pay Mr S and Mrs S compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
If Barclays Bank UK PLC consider they are required to deduct income tax from any part of 
this award they should tell Mr S and Mrs S how much they have deducted. And they should 
provide Mr S and Mrs S with a tax deduction certificate, if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs, if appropriate.
Developments 
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree. They felt Barclays 
should pay higher compensation because of the impact on them and to stop them from 
treating other customers in a similar way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S and Mrs Ss strength of feeling about what happened. But I can only 
consider their circumstances, not their concerns about whether Barclays might act in the 
same way in relation to other customers. For the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision I think £300 is fair compensation for Mr S and Mrs S in the circumstances of their 
complaint. Im not persuaded to change my mind about that.
Putting things right
I see no reason to change what I said in my provisional decision about how Barclays should 
put things right for Mr S and Mrs S. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should1. refund the interest of £275.25 to Mr S and Mrs S;
2. pay simple interest of 8% a year on the £275.25 from 6 October 2022 until the refund 
is paid to Mr S and Mrs S; and
3. pay Mr S and Mrs S compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
If Barclays Bank UK PLC consider they are required to deduct income tax from any part of 
this award they should tell Mr S and Mrs S how much they have deducted. And they should 
provide Mr S and Mrs S with a tax deduction certificate, if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs, if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman