DRN-3719500
The complaint
Ms G says Lloyds Bank Plc, has treated her unfairly in relation to a transaction on her credit 
card which paid for accommodation.
What happened
In January 2020 Ms G used her Lloyds credit card to make payment to a website (the 
website) for seven nights of accommodation in March 2020. She paid £1688 for three 
adults and one child to stay in this accommodation which was supplied by a separate 
company (the supplier). Ms G says that all flights to her destination were grounded the day 
before she was due to go, due to the Pandemic. So she couldnt get to the accommodation, 
which was non-refundable. Ms G says she made an insurance claim and managed to get all 
but £422 back for this accommodation. She didnt get a full refund because one of the adults 
travelling wasnt covered by the insurance policy. So she complained to Lloyds to get this 
back under Chargeback or Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Lloyds considered what happened. It said it couldnt raise a chargeback because when Ms G 
raised this issue to it, she was outside the time limits for chargeback. It also considered 
Section 75 but concluded that there was no evidence of breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the website or supplier. It also argued that the required relationship 
(Debtor, Creditor, Supplier) set out in the CCA wasnt in place. So Lloyds concluded it didnt 
need to do more. Ms G wasnt happy with Lloyds position, so she brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our Investigator felt Lloyds didnt have to do anymore. And Ms G remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen clarification from the website that this wasnt a package holiday-it was 
accommodation only. As she used her credit card if certain criteria are met, Lloyds can have 
certain responsibilities to Ms G which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain circumstances, Section 75 
has the effect of allowing Ms G to hold Lloyds liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence Lloyds can be held 
responsible for a like claim as that which Ms G would have against the website.
Ms Gs Lloyds credit card is also part of a card scheme. And this scheme has rules which 
includes giving Lloyds a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as 
the website, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers, and it 
is possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful without Lloyds having done 
anything wrong.
could Lloyds challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Ms G has been clear that she used her card here and doesnt dispute the amount charged, 
when it was charged, or whether it was applied correctly to her account. So I dont think 
Lloyds couldve challenged the payment on the basis Ms G didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given what Ive just set out.
Lloyds is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is no longer a reasonable prospect of success.
Ive considered Lloyds internal records of what happened here. I can see when the 
transaction was made and when Ms G raised the matter with Lloyds. We also know when 
the accommodation was booked for. Having considered all these facts alongside the 
chargeback rules, specifically the time limit rules, Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt done 
anything wrong by not raising a chargeback when Ms G raised the issue with it. This is 
because it was well outside the required time limits when she raised the matter and thus any 
chargeback would have been unsuccessful. So Ms G didnt lose out because Lloyds didnt 
raise a chargeback as it wouldnt have been successful anyway.
Section 75
There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. Lloyds has said it didnt 
think that there was a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the accommodation 
supplier. It has also said its not persuaded that the required Debtor, Creditor, Supplier 
relationship was in place.
For Lloyds to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that 
there was a breach the contract or material misrepresentation which was untrue and that led 
to loss. But Lloyds can only be held responsible if there is a contract in place.
Ms G had booked accommodation only here, which under the contract she agreed with the 
website was defined as a single element agreement. And under the terms of this contract 
the website had no responsibility for whether or not the accommodation was supplied. So if 
the supplier failed in some way then the website wasnt responsible according to the terms 
Ms G agreed with it. And the flights Ms G had werent in this contract so theyre cancellation 
wasnt the websites fault.
Ms G paid the website for this accommodation. But the websites job was only as an 
introducer here-which the contract makes clear. The contract also makes clear that the 
contract for the supply of the accommodation is a separate contract and is directly between 
Ms G and the supplier. And Lloyds isnt party to that contract as its not a contractor and it 
didnt fund that contract. It funded the contract between Ms G and the website. So 
accordingly Lloyds cannot be held responsible for any failings by the supplier in supplying 
the accommodation. And in any event, the contract agreed meant the accommodation was 
non-refundable if Ms G didnt go and if she cancelled at short notice the terms meant shed 
get no refund either.
It maybe that the accommodation may not have been available due to the pandemic in the 
destination country. But this doesnt make a difference as Lloyds wasnt responsible for the 
contract for the supply of the accommodation. It was only responsible for the contract with 
the website which was acting only as an introducer. For completeness I shall now turn to some of Ms Gs arguments. She says lots of people 
have had refunds for bookings abroad which were impacted by the pandemic. And she is 
correct in this very broadly speaking. However many such bookings were package holidays 
which has significant protections which accommodation only bookings dont have. 
Furthermore many accommodation arrangements are booked directly with the 
accommodation supplier thus meaning that there is a direct link between the Debtor, 
Creditor and Supplier. But that isnt the case here. Also there will be circumstances where 
the suppliers couldnt provide accommodation or breached the contract or misrepresented it 
in other ways which do make card providers liable. But unfortunately those reasons for 
upholding such complaints dont apply here. So I think Lloyds treated her fairly.
Ms G asks a related question about other companies paying out on pandemic impacted 
bookings, she says did they or did they not pay millions of pounds in compensations for 
exactly the same reason?. No is the short answer, there have been huge numbers of 
successful claims by travellers to credit providers, but in this case Ms Gs booking is of the 
sort of contractual arrangement and set of events that means that Lloyds doesnt have to 
refund her. However I do note that Ms G took the sensible option of being insured and has 
received a substantial (if not total) claim payment through said insurance. If shed not had 
that insurance shed have received nothing back as Ive concluded that Lloyds hasnt done 
anything wrong in its approach to chargeback and Section 75.
Ms G says I lost money through no fault of my own. This is absolutely correct. But just 
because that happened doesnt make it fair that Lloyds has to pay when it hasnt done 
anything wrong either.
Ms G says the Investigator hasnt been impartial yet provides no persuasive reasoning as to 
what the investigator got wrong. Lloyds can only be liable here if it did something wrong in its 
assessment of the claim. And Im not persuaded it did.
Lloyds did pay Ms G £70 for the customer service it provided. Ive considered what 
happened here and I think that is a fair solution to that particular issue.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Ms G wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Ms Gs avenues for recouping the loss here will be significantly limited. 
But this does not mean that Lloyds has done anything wrong in dealing with the issues 
arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund her.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Ms G has said, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds has treated Ms G unfairly. So unfortunately for Ms G her complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc. It has 
nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman