DRN-3961489
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the settlement paid by Simplyhealth Access under her cash plan 
claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
This service has been provided with two different policy documents by the parties. 
Simplyhealth has confirmed the document that applies to the claim is the one 
effective from March 2019. Although the document provided by Mrs Ws 
representative says it is effective from July 2022, Simplyhealth has confirmed this 
only came into effect for Mrs W at her following renewal (January 2023). 
The policy provides hospital benefit. The table of cover in the policy says it will pay 
£20 for each day/night. Based on this alone, I can understand why Mrs Ws 
representative thinks Simplyhealth should pay benefit for the three days that Mrs W 
spent in hospital. 
However, further clarification is later provided. Under the heading what the hospital 
benefit covers, it says this covers an overnight stay in a hospital as an in-patient for 
tests or treatment. It then defines whats meant by an in-patient. The policy also 
covers an admission to hospital as a day-patient for tests or treatment, and clarifies 
that if someone is admitted as a day-patient and then stays overnight, Simplyhealth 
will pay one nights hospital cover (not one day and one night). 
Im satisfied Mrs W was an in-patient and that Simplyhealth therefore only needed to 
pay benefit for her overnight stays, which it has done. 
I see that Mrs W was caused some confusion during Simplyhealths assessment of 
her claim. It had also requested information from her, but she wasnt aware of this 
due to an error with the online account. Simplyhealth has apologised for this and paid 
Mrs W £50 compensation. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman