DRN-3971722
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the suitability of the advice she was given by Aviva Life & Pensions 
Limited (Aviva) to take out a free standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan in 
1997 and then to increase the premiums in 2000. She says she ought to have been advised 
to take up the in-house alternatives instead.
What happened
Mrs N was a teacher who had joined the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS) in 1983. In 1997 
she met with Aviva and took out an FSAVC plan with gross monthly contributions of £78.95 
 to run alongside her occupational pension scheme. In 2000 she again met with Aviva and 
agreed to increase her gross monthly contributions by another £100. 
Mrs N said she saw an advert on social media in June 2021 which prompted her to
approach the representative from the advert and complain about the advice she was 
previously given. In October 2021 a complaint was made to Aviva, which said that the advice 
to take out  and subsequently increase an FSAVC plan had been unsuitable, and that 
Mrs N would have been better off making contributions to an in-house additional voluntary 
contribution (AVC) plan through her employer. 
Aviva said that its records showed Mrs N had been given a booklet which set out the 
available AVC options  which she confirmed she had read and understood. It also said that 
in 2000 Mrs N was again made aware of the comparative benefits between AVCs and 
FSAVCs through an information sheet. So on both occasions it felt its advisors 
recommendation was suitable and that Mrs N was made aware of the alternative options. It 
also suggested that Mrs Ns complaint may have been made outside of the time limits 
allowed. But Mrs N wasnt happy with that outcome and brought her complaint to us through 
her representative. 
Initially we considered the matter of whether the complaint had been brought out of time, 
but an ombudsman decided it hadnt, so an investigator looked into whether the advice had 
been suitable. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld  making the following points 
in support of her findings:
The adviser had provided an information leaflet and booklet which highlighted the 
differences between AVCs and FSAVCs. The literature noted that FSAVC charges 
can be higher than AVCs and recommended that Mrs N obtained scheme details 
from her employer. So she was satisfied the adviser had done what was expected of 
him. 
One of Mrs Ns key objectives was early retirement. She noted Mrs N did leave her 
employment at age 54  so she thought the FSAVC plan met this objective. 
Mrs N was issued with a personalised FSAVC illustration showing potential returns at 
prescribed growth rates. There was nothing to suggest the FSAVC would provide 
greater returns than an in-house AVC. 
She thought Aviva had met its regulatory obligations in making the sale and didnt think the 
FSAVC had been mis sold. 
 Mrs Ns representative didnt agree. It made the following points in response: 
Having read both of Avivas information leaflets and booklets from 1997 and 2000, it 
didnt think they fully explained the differences between in-house AVCs and FSAVCs.
It set out the guidance given in the regulatory update (RU20) from 1996, which it said 
Aviva should have been aware of especially as it simply reiterated the existing rules. 
It also thought there should have been documentary evidence that RU20 had been 
followed. 
Although Mrs N signed to say shed been given the information and understood her 
choices, there was little documentation of any discussions which ought to have taken 
place looking at the difference between AVCs and FSAVCs.
The investigator suggested that early retirement had been a key objective for Mrs N. 
But it noted that at the time of the initial advice any AVC or FSAVC benefit had to be 
drawn at the same time as the main scheme. So it thought that the idea of early 
retirement would have needed to be carefully thought through  and wouldnt have 
been something Mrs N could automatically have assumed would be possible. 
No resolution could be found so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman and was 
passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said the complaint should be upheld making the following points 
is support of my findings:
I looked at whether Aviva had met the regulatory guidance from the RU20 update of 
May 1996. Aviva hadnt been able to provide any of the sales file from 1997  so I 
looked at the information from the advice in 2000 when Mrs N increase her FSAVC 
premiums. 
The confidential financial plan that Aviva completed did meet some of the RU20 
guidelines but not all of them. However, the adviser had directed Mrs N to a separate 
brochure and leaflet which Aviva said explained the differences between FSAVCs 
and AVCs.
I didnt think the booklet made a direct reference to the charges of each scheme, so I 
didnt think Mrs N would have concluded that - in respect of charges - she would be 
better off making in-house AVCs.
With regards to the accompanying leaflet, I didnt think it made it clear enough that 
charges on in-house AVCs were likely to be lower. And I noted the leaflet was 
unsigned so I couldnt conclude that the differences had been discussed or that the 
adviser met the RU20 requirements. 
I also concluded that the evidence from 2000 would reasonably be an indication of 
what happened in 1997. The only available evidence from 1997 was Mrs Ns 
signature that shed received the accompanying booklet (the one that was issued in 
2000). 
But Id already concluded that the booklet didnt go far enough in explaining the 
difference in charges, so I wasnt persuaded that Mrs N had been made aware that 
AVCs would likely be cheaper than FSAVCs.
In my view there was insufficient evidence to show that, in particular, the charges of 
both the schemes were discussed.I looked at the other in-house option Mrs N had and thought that, on balance, added 
years would have seemed expensive when compared with in-house AVCs. I thought 
it was unlikely that Mrs N would have chosen that option.
But I thought  if she had been made aware of the difference in costs between AVCs 
and FSAVCs in 1997, Mrs N would have chosen the in-house alternative and so 
would consequently have increased her contributions to the same arrangement in 
2000. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs N accepted the provisional decision and had no further comment to make. Aviva said 
that, while it still believed the advice wasnt unsuitable, it was prepared to carry out the 
calculation as recommended in order to resolve the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have in principle accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from those findings. Ill set out below the basis for this final decision along the lines of my 
provisional decision. 
The suitability of Avivas advice
Before May 1996 the regulator required company representatives to exercise due skill, care
and diligence in dealing fairly with investors. In relation to FSAVC sales this meant knowing
that in-house AVC options existed and explaining the generic benefits of these options as
well as highlighting the benefits of their own FSAVC plan.
But in May 1996 the regulator issued a regulatory update called RU20 which set out the
procedures it expected product providers to follow, although this wasnt new guidance but
restating what was already in place. The update said that a tied adviser shouldnt
recommend their own companys FSAVC until they had:
drawn the clients attention to the in-house scheme alternative
discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account,
among other things, of the features described in this article)
directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information on
the in-scheme option.
The article mentioned above included discussion of the tax treatment of contributions and
benefits, employers being willing to match or top-up benefits, and the ability to provide
additional life cover. It also referred to the lower charges under an in-house scheme in
general terms noting that, charges under the scheme will usually be lower than those under
FSAVCs, reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to
administration expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this
is likely to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefit to the
client.
So the guidance  which wasnt new guidance as such, made it clear that of the factors
which needed to be discussed about the differences between AVCs and FSAVCs, the lower
charges of an in-house AVC was a very important difference.
Ive therefore looked at whether Aviva met these requirements when it made its
recommendation to Mrs N.Unfortunately, Aviva hasnt been able to locate any of the sales file from 1997  except for
signed confirmation from Mrs N that she had received a brochure about the alternatives
available to her. And so I cant know what was discussed, or provided to Mrs N, at that time.
Avivas confidential financial plan from February 2000 included the reasons for its
recommendation. It said that I have recommended the above product to increase your
contributions to your FSAVC. This will help towards maintaining your standard of living in
retirement. Before proceeding you should consider the comparative benefits of arranging
additional benefits through an in-house AVC. To assist you, I have explained the differences
between an AVC and a FSAVC and have also given you an information sheet, 'Additional
Voluntary Contributions (AVCs) - The options available to you to increase your pension'
which summarises the factors that you should consider before making your decision.
Ive looked carefully at the financial plan to see how it met the requirements from RU20. It
said Mrs N should consider the benefits of arranging an in-house AVC and that the adviser
had explained the differences, but I havent seen anything to suggest that it directed Mrs N
to her employer for details of the in-house alternatives. And Im not satisfied it confirmed
sufficient detail about the discussion of explaining the differences between an AVC and a
FSAVC. However, the adviser referred to a booklet and a leaflet he said he had provided
Mrs N to confirm the information, so Ive also looked at those documents carefully.
The brochure, which was entitled improving your retirement benefits- its your choice,
explained the difference between the schemes. It said that you may make payments to an
Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) scheme set up by your employer to run alongside
the occupational pension scheme. This type of arrangement is known as an in-house AVC
scheme. You may make payments to a completely separate scheme of your choice that is
separate from your employer. This type of arrangement is known as a Free Standing
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) scheme.
In my view the general comparison of the schemes within the brochure mainly set out the
benefits of the FSAVC in some detail, while listing (in italics underneath each FSAVC
benefit) a neutral statement about AVCs.
The section entitled its your choice said that we recommend that you compare the
benefits and options outlined within this booklet with those available under your employers
in-house AVC scheme. Some of the features outlined will be available, some will not. Your
choice of product for increasing your retirement benefits will depend on which method best
suits your personal needs and attitudes. In particular, you should consider portability,
contribution flexibility, investment choice and fund performance. Your Financial Advisor can
give you detailed advice on the suitability of xxx Pension Plan. They cannot however advise
you on pension plans that are available from other sources, such as an in-house AVC.
I havent seen any evidence within the booklet of a direct reference to the charges of each
scheme, and Im not persuaded that Mrs N would have understood from the available
information that she would more likely than not be better off from a charges point of view by
making in-house AVCs.
So I went onto consider the leaflet the adviser said he gave to Mrs N. The copy of the leaflet
Ive seen was undated and, crucially, unsigned. Entitled Additional Voluntary Pension
Contributions, it set out the options available to you to increase your pension. It stated
that, your choice should not be based on any single factor such as charges alone. There
are others to consider including what happens if you change employment, whether you can
change your contributions and your investment choices. We strongly recommend that youobtain from your employers scheme administrator details of the benefits and charges
applicable in respect of your employer's own Additional Voluntary Contribution Scheme.
With regards to charges it says, the charges on scheme AVCs can be lower than an FSAVC
but this is not always the case. Charges are difficult to quantify on conventional with profit
and deposit type funds because investment managers generally retain discretion over the
total returns they give you.
Looking at the content of the leaflet, I think it may have drawn Mrs Ns attention to the in-
house scheme alternative and directed her to her employer. And if I consider that there was
clear evidence that the adviser did discuss the content of the undated leaflet, then I might
conclude that he had met the regulatory requirements of RU20. But I dont think it did and I
say that for two reasons. Firstly, I dont think Avivas documentation makes it clear enough
that in-house AVCs are likely to be lower. It simply says that they can be lowerbut this is
not always the case. In the absence of clarification from the adviser on this point, I think this
would reasonably have given Mrs N cause to doubt that, from a charges point of view, an in-
house AVC would have been in her best interest.
And, as Ive already suggested, within the document was a declaration for Mrs N to sign to
confirm that she had, been given my own copy of this sheet and understand its contents
and realise the importance of obtaining details of my scheme AVC and its charges from my
employers pension scheme and comparing them with my FSAVC options. But this section
was unsigned.
I think this is particularly important as Aviva has relied on this document having been
discussed  so I would expect to see a signed copy in support of this. As Ive said above, if I
had been provided with a signed copy I may have been satisfied it was enough to
demonstrate that the adviser did discuss the generic differences and the likely lower
charges. However, without a signed copy of the document or additional notes to explain
what was actually discussed  for example generic differences such as lower costs etc, I
cant reasonably conclude that the adviser met the regulators RU20 requirements.
Although, as Ive said above, I cant know what was discussed in 1997, I think the evidence
from 2000 might reasonably be indicative of what happened then as well.
The only available evidence from the time of the original sale is a document with Mrs Ns
signature, dated 26 February 1997, which was to confirm that I have read and understood
the information contained in the booklet entitled improving your retirement benefits- its your
choice. After comparing the options available, I have decided to proceed with my FSAVC
application
But looking at the later documentation that Ive been provided with from 2000, Ive already
concluded that the booklet didnt go far enough in comparing the schemes charges or even
suggesting that AVCs were likely to be cheaper. There was no direct reference to the
charges of each scheme anywhere in the booklet. So Im not persuaded that, even if it could
be said that Mrs N did receive the booklet in 1997, that she would have been made aware
that AVCs would likely be cheaper  in terms of charges - than FSAVCs.
And as theres no evidence to show that Mrs N signed to say shed received the other leaflet
that Aviva referenced about AVCs, it would be difficult for me to conclude that she was
issued with it and that the differences between the two routes in generic terms were
discussed. Theres insufficient evidence in my view to show that these differences, and in
particular the charges of both the schemes, were discussed.What should Aviva have done?
Having decided that I dont think Aviva sufficiently explained the cost differences between
the in-house and FSAVC alternatives, Ive also gone on to consider the situation with
regards to added years as this also needed to be brought to Mrs Ns attention during the
sales process.
Added years was a different option to the other two in that it provided a guaranteed benefit.
It depended on a members salary so the final amount of benefit couldnt be known at the
beginning. At the time of the advice added years would likely have looked expensive
compared to the projected returns and benefits of the FSAVC. So it was unlikely that Mrs N
would have wanted to spend a potentially greater monthly amount to get the same projected
benefits from added years as she could have from a money purchase arrangement  such
as AVCs.
In 1997 a mid range projected illustration rate, as set out by the regulator, would still have
been 9%. So its clear to see why an illustration of what she could receive from that type of
plan may have seemed more attractive to Mrs N than added years. Aviva wasnt expected
to offer an opinion on whether Mrs N should buy added years but simply needed to refer
her to the employer so that she could have found out what was involved. Considering the
likely issues Ive set out above, I think its likely she would have thought the cost of added
years was high compared to the in-house AVC option.
Ive also taken into account that, at the time of the initial advice, Mrs N was 36 with 14 years
service. So at age 60 she would have achieved around 38 years of service. I accept that, as
a teacher who had already been in that profession for 14 years, it was perhaps more likely
than not that she would have remained in that type of vocational profession, and so might
arguably have been a credible candidate for buying added years. Further, in 2000 she noted,
in her reasons for increasing the FSAVC contribution, increase benefit on age of retirement
and perhaps allow earlier retirement. Could take at 60 and there was some doubt about
employers one making me work longer (sic) and so I could retire earlier perhaps.
But, alongside what Ive said above about the projections for the returns on FSAVCs likely
seeming more appealing due to the lower cost of achieving a similar overall result, I dont
think early retirement was a clear objective for Mrs N - perhaps more of a hope should the
possibility exist in the future.
So I think Mrs N might have considered that in 1997, had she approached her employer for
an illustration to make up the two lost years, it would have held less appeal to her than
the opportunity of achieving earlier retirement and the chance to build up a fund of money as
offered by the in-house AVCs. I think, on balance, that the issue of added years seeming 
expensive when compared to in-house AVCs would most likely have prevented Mrs N from 
choosing that option in any case.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mrs N was provided with enough of an
explanation about the difference between the costs of an FSAVC compared with the in-
house AVC alternatives. I think that if she had been made aware then she would have 
chosen the in-house AVC option in 1997 and consequently she would have increased 
contributions to the in-house alternative in 2000 in the same way she did with her FSAVCs.
Ive set out below what Aviva needs to do to put things right.Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions Limited should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the 
regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 
1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after
1 January 2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to
1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid
into Mrs Ns pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mrs Ns complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above. It 
should provide details of its calculation to Mrs N in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman