DRN-4200842
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna) unfairly turned down his claims made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
In May 2011, Mr H bought membership points from a timeshare provider which I will call C, 
enabling him to exchange those points for holiday accommodation. The points cost £21,139 
and Mr H paid for this with a loan from Novuna.
In January 2022 Mr H made a claim to Novuna using a professional representative (AS). In 
summary, the basis of the claim was as follows:
There were misrepresentations made about the timeshare and loan that Novuna 
were jointly liable for under s.75 CCA. These misrepresentations included that Mr H 
had been told he was acquiring an investment which could be sold for a profit. It said 
that Mr H believed he could access the apartment at any time.
There were unfair terms in the timeshare agreement and breaches of consumer 
protection legislation during the sale, that meant the debtor-creditor relationship 
between Mr H and Novuna was also unfair as per s.140A CCA. Further, the whole 
transaction was illegal as the timeshare was sold as an investment in contravention 
of both European and UK law.
At the time of the sale, the timeshare provider was not authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to broker loans. This meant there was a breach of s.27 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and the loan was 
unenforceable.
C had not carried out proper affordability checks.
The timeshare provider was now in liquidation, so Mr H was unable to recover any 
amounts he may be awarded by a Spanish court.
To put things right, Mr H asked for a refund of everything paid under the loan agreement 
plus interest.
Novuna responded to the claim. It said that any claim under s. 75 was out of time since it 
had not been brought by 22 May 2017. It didnt consider the claim under s. 140 A had any 
merit and rejected the claim the facts were identical to the court decision in Link Financial 
Ltd v Wilson. It did not consider there had been an unfair relationship. The documents 
showed the primary purpose of the agreement was for the provision of holiday 
accommodation.
It said the broker, which was one of Cs companies, was licensed and so there had been no 
breach of the rules. It also detailed the checks it caried out into the affordability of the 
product and said its decision to lend had been responsible.
Cs companies held the relevant licence when brokering finance. Novuna also treated the 
claim as a complaint, so it said that if Mr H wasnt happy with its response, he could bring a 
claim to our service, which he did.
One of our investigators issued a view on Mr Hs complaint, saying that she did not think 
Novuna needed to do anything further. In summary, she said:
The complaint about the s.75 claim was made on 27 January 2022 and so was out of 
time.
There was little or no evidence as to what was said during the sales process and she 
didnt consider there was sufficient evidence to show misrepresentation.
Little detail was given as to the claim of lack of checks about the affordability of the 
loan and she could see no basis for upholding this element of the complaint.
There was no evidence that timeshare provider wasnt an authorised broker at the 
time of the sale.
The fact that the timeshare provider is now in liquidation does not mean its 
customers are not getting what they should under the agreement.
AS responded on Mr Hs behalf. It said it had concerns about the way the timeshare had 
been sold and how credit had been provided. It supplied copy of a training manual used by 
C.
AS also said that in the Link case the High Court had concluded that the contract term which 
allowed a capital asset to be forfeited if management fees were not paid was unfair.
It said our investigator had not properly addressed the issue of the broker being 
unauthorised. It argued that the brokers who worked for C were self-employed and they 
were not individually registered. Nor had they carried out proper affordability checks. Finally, 
it added that Mr H had not been told of any commission paid to the broker.
Our investigator responded to the points raised. She said the training manual was not 
related to the product bought by Mr H. She explained she had commented on the issue of 
unaffordable lending and there was no evidence that any commission paid would have led to 
an unfair relationship.
Novuna said the claims made by AS were generic and often had little relevance to the cases 
it pursued. It said the manual submitted wasnt for the product Mr H bought and he had not 
bought a property or rights to one but he had acquired points which could be used for 
holidays. It added that Mr H had settled the loan in 2012 and so any claim under s.140 
should have been brought by 2018. That said, it didnt consider there had been an unfair 
relationship. It reiterated that it had gone through its normal underwriting process and had 
carried out the appropriate checks. It said there was no truth in the claim that the sales 
representatives were self-employed.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
In this case, s. 75 of the CCA is relevant to the complaint, which says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within s.12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect 
of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, 
who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr H paid for goods or services using certain 
types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of those goods or services, the creditor can also be held responsible.
The key issue I need to decide in this case is whether Novunas decision to decline the s. 75 
claim was fair. To decide this, I must consider whether Mr Hs claim meets the requirements 
of s. 75, as set out by the CCA. These criteria include the following points:
(a) There must be the required relationship between the debtor, creditor, and supplier; and
(b) (b) There must be a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the supplier. 
Unless the above criteria are met in the circumstances of this case, I wouldnt consider
Novuna to have acted unfairly when refusing Mr Hs claim. Ill consider each of these points 
in turn. I note that there is no dispute that the required debtor, creditor, supplier agreement is 
intact.
S. 75: Misrepresentation
Mr H complains that the timeshare was misrepresented on a number of grounds as set out 
above.
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier, they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under s. 75 of the CCA. The claim 
against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the supplier 
provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a s. 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under s. 9 of 
the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Mr Hs claim was made out of time under the LA. But the 
Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether Novunas 
response to the claim was reasonable.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr H entered into the 
purchase agreement. I say this because he entered into the agreements based on the 
alleged misrepresentation by C  which he relied on. And, on the basis that Mr H took out a 
loan from Novuna to pay for the purchase, it was at that point that he suffered the loss. It 
follows therefore that I think the cause of action in regard to the purchase accrued in 2011, and this means that Mr Hs claim for misrepresentation under s. 75 had to be made within six 
years of that date. As the claim wasnt made until 2022, I think its likely to have fallen 
outside of the time limit set out in the LA.
S. 75: Breach of contract
AS says that Mr H lost out when C stopped operating in 2019 and it argued this was a 
breach of contract. It has been presumed through this investigation that the date on which 
the cause of action accrued was when Mr H entered into the purchase agreement. I do not 
agree with this. Instead, I find that the relevant date is the date of any breach. Therefore, I do 
not find it reasonable to rely on the LA in regard to this issue raised and have instead 
considered whether the cessation of operations of C constituted a breach of contract that 
Novuna should be held jointly liable for.
As I understand it Mr H was still the owner of the timeshare when C went into administration. 
For me to say that this constituted an actionable breach of contract I would need to be 
convinced that that timeshare product he acquired was no longer available to him following 
C ceasing operations. In this case I understand that the holiday products Mr H acquired were 
still available to him after the liquidation with the facilities being run by a new management 
company. Therefore, I do not find I can say that the liquidation of C has resulted in Mr H no 
longer benefiting from the terms of his purchase agreement.
Because of this I do not uphold this part of his complaint.
S. 140A claims
Under s. 140A and s.140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to consider 
whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate 
orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and 
refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any related agreement. Whilst the position is not entirely clear, its likely that the 
sale agreement was a related agreement here.
The Limitation Act applies to a claim under s.140A. Im satisfied the relevant limitation period 
is six years and time starts to run from the date the credit agreement ended - if it was not still 
running when the claim was made. Recently Novuna has told this service that the loan was 
paid off in 2012. If this was the case and Mr H didnt contact Novuna about his claim until 
January 2022 which is more than six years later. If that is correct the s. 140A claim has been 
made out of time.
I realise Mr H may well say he didnt know about these time limits - but Im afraid thats not 
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period.
However, as I have not seen evidence of the closure of the loan and Novuna did not give 
this as a reason why they rejected the original claim I will consider the merits of that claim.
AS says too that the payment of commission should have been disclosed to Mr H. There is 
however no suggestion that it was important to him, or that it would have made any 
difference to his decision to purchase. As I understand it the sums of commission paid were 
not such that they would give rise to an unfair relationship.
I have seen nothing to indicate that the points were sold as an investment. The Members 
Declaration contains the following: We understand that the purchase of our membership in Vacation Club is for the primary purpose of holidays and is not for the purpose of real estate 
interest or an investment in real estate and, that CLC make no representation as to the 
future price or value of the Vacation Club product. It follows that I cannot conclude that the 
product was sold as an investment.
AS asserts that the Court decision in the Link Financial case applies to Mr Hs complaint. It 
involved a term whereby the supplier of the timeshare will extinguish the consumers rights 
in the timeshare for non-payment of commission. The court in that case found the term to be 
unfair.
However, it must be noted that the judge said that: In considering the fairness of the 
relationship, it is necessary to consider all other relevant matters, and (amongst other 
things), these necessarily include how the clause has been operated in practice. As I 
understand it C has not sought to extinguish Mr Hs rights and I dont see that in those 
circumstances I can conclude there was an unfair relationship.
I would add that under the rules set out in Cs Articles of Association at the time the contract 
was signed, it may be possible that there was potential for unfairness in that Mr Hs 
membership could have been withdrawn for failure to pay fees. But the contract is not as 
clear cut as one might wish to see. However, I gather that position was altered in December 
2015, when Cs articles were amended. And as a result Im persuaded that a membership 
can be suspended but fees will not continue to accrue. That appears to be the position here, 
so I dont think, in the circumstances that its likely that a Court would find there to be an 
unfair debtor creditor relationship as a result of this.
Overall I see no reason why I should conclude that Novuna was wrong to reject the claim 
under s. 140.
Were the right affordability checks carried out at the time of sale?
AS has suggested that proper checks were not carried out at the time of sale and AS says 
this means the lending was irresponsible. I have seen no evidence that Mr H found the loan 
unaffordable. It seems he repaid it in 2012. Novuna has set out the checks it carried out and 
I can see no grounds to reach a conclusion that these were not appropriate.
When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether 
the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if 
Novuna did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed 
to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr H lost out as a result of its
failings. Mr H has provided no evidence whatsoever that he would have found it difficult to 
repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
Brokers Authorisation
AS has asserted that the brokers were self-employed and were not authorised. However, it 
has provided no evidence in support of that assertion. Novuna has rebutted it and has 
obtained confirmation from C that it was properly authorised and that the brokers were both 
employed and properly trained. As such I do not consider I can uphold that element of the 
complaint.
Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr H may have against 
C or Novuna is merited and in time. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think 
Novuna has treated Mr H unfairly or acted unreasonably so I cant properly require it to 
compensate them or do anything else.
The bank has made no comment on my provisional decision and AS has decided not to 
pursue the complaint further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have been given no reason why I should alter my provisional decision so it stands 
unaltered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman