DRN-4348016
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unreasonably refused to 
repair the scratches on his car following the vandalism to his car in breaking the rear window 
under his motor policy. 
What happened
Mr S car was parked in a carpark and when he returned his rear window was smashed in 
with further damage to the side window and the glass caused scratches to his paint 
bodywork. He made a claim direct to the windscreen repair agents as directed to do under 
his policy.
 
The windows were repaired but Advantage said Mr S would need to pay a further damage 
excess to have his body work repaired. Mr S said this wasnt what the policy wording said. 
As Advantage wouldnt change its stance Mr S brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator was of the view that his complaint should be upheld, and that Advantage 
should repair the scratches to the bodywork under the window damage excess too. He also 
thought Advantage should pay a further £100 compensation in addition to the £50 it had 
already paid Mr S. 
Advantage didnt agree so Mr S complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as those of the 
investigator. Ill now explain why. 
First, I would like to thank Mr S for his very cogent explanation of the issues in this 
complaint, which made things so much clearer and concise. 
The policy term at issue is the following: 
Section 8
Windscreen damage
What's covered
If you have comprehensive cover your Insurer will pay to replace or repair broken 
glass in the windscreen or windows of your Car and repair any scratching to the 
bodywork caused by the broken glass.
Making a claim under this section won't affect your no claims discount, as long as 
you're not also claiming for any other loss or damage to your Car.
Your Insurer's Nominated Repairer may use parts or Accessories that aren't made or 
supplied by your Car's manufacturer but are of an equivalent type and quality to 
those being replaced.
What's not covered under section 8:
Any other glass forming part of your Car including sunroofs, panoramic roofs 
or panoramic sunroofs, where the roof glass is a separate unit to the 
windscreen glass
Any windscreens or windows not made of glass
Replacement of the hood/roof structure of a convertible or cabriolet Car
A repair or replacement cost that's more than the Market Value of your Car at 
the time of loss (less any Excess).
Additional charges or limited cover may apply if the repair isn't carried out by your 
Insurer's Nominated Repairer.
You have to pay an Excess for windscreen, windows and glass repairs or 
replacement  see your schedule of insurance and Certificate of Motor Insurance for 
more details.
I consider its clear that any claim for windscreen or window damage includes any 
consequent scratches to the body work of the car. The term above clearly says this.
Therefore, I dont consider Advantage was correct in its interpretation that as the windscreen 
repairer couldnt also repair the bodywork scratches that meant a further damage excess 
needed to be paid by Mr S. I think that approach is unfair and unreasonable given the 
preciseness of the wording in this term. Advantage given it decides on how to express the 
terms in its policy, isnt permitted to depart from what the term actually says. 
Consequently, Advantage now needs to assess the scratches on Mr S car including any 
deterioration given the delay in doing so earlier and repair them properly. 
This obviously caused Mr S some considerable inconvenience and trouble, so I think its 
right Advantage pays him further compensation. I consider the investigators view of an 
additional £100 to be fair and in line with what I would have awarded had he not suggested 
it. I appreciate Mr S thoughts that potentially that could be increased considering Advantage 
didnt accept the investigators view, but our awards of compensation are not intended to 
punish or fine the business, merely to compensate the consumer for the trouble and upset 
caused. Therefore, I remain of the view that the further £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances. My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following: 
Assess the damage to Mr S car from the broken glass and repair them including any 
deterioration given the delay. 
Pay Mr S a further sum of £100 compensation to the £50 already paid or offered 
ensuring Mr S receives a total of £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman