DRN-1731506
The complaint
Mr S complains that Equifax Limited has unfairly allowed information about his twin brother 
to be recorded against his own credit file.
What happened
Mr S lives at the same address as his twin brother whose first name shares the same initial 
as his. For ease within this decision I will refer to Mr S as Mr S1 and his brother as Mr S2.
Mr S1 checked his credit file through Equifax and found details relating to Mr S2. So he 
contacted Equifax to explain, providing his and Mr S2's individual driving licences 
highlighting their matching dates of birth, address, as well as their different first names and 
pictures. Mr S1 also provided a copy of his passport.
In response Equifax asked Mr S1 to provide a copy of his birth certificate. Mr S1 explained 
that he didnt have a birth certificate, and as the matter wasn't resolved he brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and was satisfied Mr S1 had provided 
everything he could to try and resolve this matter. And he said Equifax hadn't taken 
adequate steps to help him and this in turn had caused Mr S1 distress. So he directed 
Equifax to pay Mr S1 compensation of £250, as well as add a notice of disassociation to his 
credit file to avoid confusion going forward.
Equifax initially disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsman's decision. 
But since then Equifax has agreed to include a notice of disassociation on Mr S1's file to 
avoid confusion with his brother. And its agreed to pay him £250 in compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm upholding the complaint for the reasons our investigator has previously 
given. It seems Equifax is no longer disputing that Mr S1 has provided all the information he 
has to identify himself. 
And from what I know, it's common for people born in some parts of the world (such as the 
country Mr S1 was born in) to not have birth certificates. So it seems entirely plausible he 
was unable to provide this as he said. But despite making this clear to Equifax, it appears 
there was no alternative given to him and since then (to my knowledge) nothing happened.
I don't think it was fair to leave Mr S1 without a way forward. And given the stress this 
caused him, I agree with our investigator that a sum of £250 is fair and reasonable for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him.I also agree with our investigator that Equifax needed to take steps to avoid confusion 
between Mr S1 and Mr S2 going forward. And I'm satisfied a notice of disassociation, which 
Equifax has now agreed to, is a fair solution to this complaint and to resolve this matter. 
My final decision
For the above reasons I'm upholding this complaint. And alongside the notice of 
disassociation, I direct Equifax Limited to pay Mr S £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman