DRN-3061127
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) recorded a 
notification as a claim on his home insurance policy. He believes UKI acted fraudulently 
when they did this. And that it caused his premium to increase. Hed like to be fairly 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all 
again here. 
In summary, Mr B has a home insurance policy with UKI. He had a long-standing claim with 
UKI relating to an event from 2014. UKIs involvement started in 2016. 
Mr B notified UKI (in 2020) of an issue that may or may not have been connected to that 
claim, UKI sent an assessor to consider what work might be needed. And also to consider 
whether it was connected to the original claim. 
UKI had to pay for the assessment. So they recorded it as a claim. But Mr B has been very 
clear that it was not a claim. He said he made the necessary repairs to his property himself.
Mr B felt that UKI acted fraudulently when it reported the notification as a claim on his 
records. He also felt that it caused his premium to increase. He would like UKI to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
In their February 2021 final response letter, UKI told Mr B that theyd incorrectly sent a letter 
in November 2020 which stated that Mr Bs premium had been increased as a claim had 
been made in the current policy year. They said that this had led to his policy becoming 
subject to new terms. They said they should instead have sent a letter asking him to contact 
them, so they could investigate further. They explained what steps theyd taken to ensure a 
mistake like this didnt happen again. 
UKI said theyd sent a further letter in December 2020 to explain which incidents were noted 
against Mr Bs policy at that time. UKI told Mr B that theyd recorded the 2020 notification as 
a claim as theyd had to pay for the assessment of the issue that had been notified. UKI also 
told Mr B that both his original claim from 2016, and the notification from 2020 were 
technically closed. But that at the time of the December 2020 letter both were still recorded 
as open on their system because they had yet to pay all the invoices attached to them. UKI 
confirmed that both the original claim and the notification had since been closed. The 2016 
claim closed on 25 January 2021 and the incident from February 2020 closed on 4 January 
2021.
UKI also told Mr B that the notification from 2020 would not impact Mr Bs insurance 
premium, as no repairs were completed. And that the notification had been removed from 
The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) and his No Claims Discount had been 
allowed. UKI offered Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd 
caused by the incorrect letter being sent. I understand that Mr B has yet to accept this. 
UKI also noted that Mr B had complained about his concerns regarding the increase in 
premiums caused by the 2016 claim. They said theyd sent their response on 15 April 2018. 
And therefore they wouldnt be able to look at this again.
Mr B was still unhappy. Hed received a renewal premium that was higher than hed 
expected. So he questioned whether the 2020 notification had impacted it. 
UKI issued a further final response letter in March 2021. They upheld Mr Bs complaint. They 
said that the 2020 notification had incorrectly impacted the renewal quote. But they agreed 
to remove the notification from CUE. And they recalculated the renewal premium so that the 
2020 notification no longer had any impact on it. 
Mr B was still unhappy. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt consider that his complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that 
Mr B had been very upset by what had happened. But she felt that UKI had acted fairly and 
reasonably when theyd recorded the notification on Mr Bs records as they did. She said 
that UKI had a duty to report any usages of the policy to the CUE database. And that they 
also had a duty to pay for the assessment that had been carried out. But she considered that 
UKI had done more than they had to do when theyd removed the record of the 2020 
notification from CUE. Overall, she considered that UKI had put Mr B back into the position 
he wouldve been in before he made the 2020 notification. Our investigator also felt that the 
£200 UKI had offered for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused Mr B was fair under 
the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He submitted a breakdown of the compensation he 
felt was fair, based on the time hed spent on the complaint. His claim was for £2,100, based 
on having spent 21 days on the complaint. Mr B also wanted this service to send UKI a letter 
of censure to deter them from making the same mistake again. He also wanted UKI to 
review the records about his 2016 claim. And to re-set his premiums back to the levels hed 
been paying before that claim.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be extremely disappointing to Mr 
B. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
First of all, I can understand that this must have been a frustrating and stressful experience 
for him. Im sorry to confirm what our investigator has already told Mr B, but this service cant 
send UKI a letter of censure. Its not within our remit to ask businesses to change the way 
they work. Additionally, I cant ask UKI to review their records about the 2016 claim. This is 
because from what I understand, Mr B has already asked UKI to investigate this complaint 
and they sent him their final response in 2018. Similarly, I cant ask UKI to set his premiums 
back to the levels Mr B had been paying before the 2016 claim. 
I also agree with our investigator that my role is not to evaluate everything that has gone 
wrong and seek answers to every question Mr B has asked. Instead, my role is to look at the 
crux of what went wrong in this specific complaint and see what the business has done to 
put things right.From what Ive seen, Mr B considers that UKI made two mistakes in relation to this 
complaint:
- recording the 2020 notification as a claim when it wasnt a claim, and
- sending the November 2020 letter, which then led to an incorrect renewal premium 
being calculated
UKI acknowledge they incorrectly sent the November 2020 letter to Mr B. And that this led to 
an incorrect renewal premium being issued. Theyve offered £200 compensation for their 
mistakes.
So Ive considered if these mistakes are still having an impact on Mr Bs premiums. And the 
level of compensation for distress and inconvenience that UKI should pay Mr B for the errors 
they made. 
Mr B doesnt agree that the 2020 notification should have been recorded as a claim by UKI. 
He was unhappy that it was recorded as: Escape of water/Oil/Frozen or Burst Pipes. I can 
understand why he felt this way given he didnt agree it shouldve been recorded as a claim 
at all. And the way it was recorded didnt reflect his notification. But when he first notified 
them, UKI had no option but to open a claim  by which they effectively meant the policy 
had been used. They had a duty to report any usages of the policy to the CUE database. 
They also needed to ensure they paid for the assessment of Mr Bs property that was 
arranged after his notification. From what Ive seen, UKI followed standard industry practice 
and I cant say that this was wrong. 
After Mr B complained to UKI about how theyd recorded the 2020 notification, they 
confirmed that the record wouldnt impact Mr Bs home insurance premium. I can see why 
Mr B thought it would affect his premium  UKI had incorrectly told him it had when they sent 
him the November 2020 letter. And UKI then sent a renewal quotation to Mr B with the 
wrong premium quoted. So Mr B had to complain again. At this point, UKI recalculated the 
renewal premium as if thered been no notification in 2020. And removed the notification 
from CUE so it couldnt impact future renewal premiums. I can understand why Mr B feels 
that nothing shouldve been recorded at all. But he did notify UKI. And they were obliged to 
record the notification. 
When a business makes a mistake, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as 
its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. I can see 
that UKI have made a mistake. They sent the wrong letter in November 2020. This then 
caused an incorrect renewal premium to be issued. When Mr B complained about this, UKI 
corrected the renewal premium and removed the notification from the records. This put Mr B 
back to the position he wouldve been in had he never made the 2020 notification by 
removing the record of the 2020 notification on CUE.
I can see that reaching this point has caused Mr B trouble and upset. And UKI have offered 
him £200 in recognition of that. Mr B has asked for £2,100. He feels this more fairly reflects 
the time hes had to spend on his complaint. Im sorry its taken so much of his time to 
resolve the situation to his satisfaction. But I dont agree that UKI need to improve the offer 
theyve made. This is because this service doesnt have a remit to award compensation 
based on the time someone has taken to make their complaint. Instead, we consider the 
impact the error has had and the time its taken to resolve it. In this case, I consider that UKI 
accepted theyd made a mistake and corrected it fairly quickly. Therefore Im satisfied that 
the £200 offered is fair under the circumstances.
Mr B wants to ensure that UKI dont do something similar to him again. I can understand that given what hes been through. But, as our investigator explained, its not our role to punish 
businesses for their actions. And we cant usually ask them to change their processes. Our 
role is to consider individual complaints from customers to assess how they have been 
treated and, where mistakes have been made, what the business has done to put things 
right for them. 
I can see that Mr B has already been in contact with the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, to raise his concerns.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that UKI have put Mr B back to the position he 
wouldve been in if he hadnt made the 2020 notification. Theyve acknowledged that they 
sent an incorrect letter, which led to an incorrect renewal premium being calculated. And 
have offered compensation for that. I consider that their offer of £200 compensation is fair 
under the circumstances. So Im not going to ask them to improve their offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman