DRN-1629793
The complaint
Mr N complains, and he also complains on behalf of the estate of his late wife Mrs N, 
that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
with a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage through the Nationwide in 2003 and with it a monthly 
premium PPI policy. The policy covered them jointly for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. It was free for the first 12 months and then after that it cost £26.93 per 
month for £500 per month of cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed, and so this complaint comes to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr N and the late Mrs N's complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs N had to agree to 
take it. Mr N said they didn't agree to take PPI, and they were not advised about the 
PPI premium being added.
I've seen the mortgage offer Mr and Mrs N were sent. I think that made it clear that PPI was 
an optional insurance product payable on top of their mortgage repayment. It told them the 
usual cost of the policy, but said Nationwide was offering PPI free for the first 12 months. I've 
also seen the mortgage product document sent to Mr and Mrs N at the time of sale. That 
said they had selected PPI. I think these documents can be relied upon as they were created 
at the time of sale, when events were afresh. So, I think it likely that Mr and Mrs N did opt to 
take PPI. I can understand why Mr N may not remember it that way now, after so much time.
From what Ive seen, and what we know about Nationwides sales processes, I think it 
unlikely that this was an advised sale of PPI, so Nationwide didnt have to check it was 
suitable for their needs. But, it did need to give them clear information about the PPI, so they 
could decide whether they wanted to buy it. Having looked carefully at Mr and Mrs N's 
circumstances at the time, I cant see that PPI was inappropriate for them. I say this 
because:
they was eligible for the PPI  that is, they both qualified to be covered by the 
insurance;
they weren't affected by the main limitations or exclusions in the policy, so I dont 
think having better information about these things wouldve changed their decision to take out the policy because they couldve benefited from everything the policy 
offered;
Mr N said he wouldve got some sick pay through his work and because he was 
working in the family business this would've been at full pay. He said Mrs N was 
eligible to get six months' worth of sick pay at full pay. The policy wouldve paid out 
on top of their work benefits, and for up to 12 months per successful claim, so 
possibly for longer than their work benefits wouldve covered them for.  It would've 
also paid out if they were made involuntarily unemployed. The PPI policy wouldve 
allowed them to use their work benefits to meet their other household expenses 
without dipping into their savings.
Mr and Mrs N said they had around one years' worth of their pay in savings. But, I 
think it was probably important to them to retain these savings as they didn't use 
them to reduce their mortgage borrowing when they took out the mortgage. So, I 
can't see that this made the policy inappropriate for them. Also, when they selected 
cover, they would've known they had these savings.
I dont know what Mr and Mrs N were told about the costs of the policy. As I've said it 
was free for the first 12 months and a monthly premium was payable after that. It was 
a monthly paid policy, so they couldve cancelled it at any time without losing out 
financially.
 
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs N wouldve thought the policy worth the cost to them in their 
circumstances and that's why they agreed to take it at the outset.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr N has said, but this doesnt change my view. I 
dont think that Mr and Mrs N lost out because of any problems with the sale of the policy so 
it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and the 
estate of Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman