DRN-3450266
The complaint
Company D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc wouldnt reimburse the money they lost 
due to an authorised push payment scam. They also say that Barclays didnt handle their 
claim properly and failed to keep them informed of the progress of the investigation.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at
length here. Briefly, in March 2021, D received an email from their accountant explaining that 
a payment of £25,000 was due to HMRC. They then received a second email which 
appeared to have also come from their accountant stating that HMRC was having issues 
with its bank and asked D to make the payment to a different bank account.  
D usually make card payments to HMRC. However, on this occasion they sent the funds via 
faster payment because this was what the email had requested. A few days later it came to 
light that unfortunately they had fallen victim to a scam. 
D immediately contacted their bank Barclays which in turn contacted the bank to which the 
payment was made. Unfortunately, when Barclays contacted the receiving bank only about 
£10 remained in the recipients account and that was later returned to D. Barclays did not 
agree to reimburse D for the balance amount lost.
Our investigator concluded that Ds complaint could not be upheld. They said, in summary, 
that D wasnt covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (CRM code) and that 
the payment wasnt particularly unusual or suspicious for the bank to have acted upon. 
The investigator also said that the bank did what it could do to recover the money once they 
were made aware of the fraud. They acknowledged that Barclays failed to respond to D in a 
timely manner causing avoidable inconvenience as D had to chase the bank for response on 
several occasions. However, they were of the view that the banks offer to pay £75 in this 
regard is fair.
D did not agree. They said that they had read about many cases in the press where the 
circumstances of the scam have exactly been same as here and the banks had refused 
reimbursement. Yet when pursued by the press the banks had reversed their decision and 
reimbursed the funds. D felt that banks are acting an in inconsistent manner and so wanted 
the Ombudsman to review their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what had happened to D. I can understand why they feel that as the
innocent party, they shouldnt lose out. However, I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays 
should reimburse the sum D lost. Ill explain why.
It is not disputed that D authorised and instructed the bank to make the payment. Because
of this, Barclays had an obligation to follow its instruction. However, there are some 
situations in which the bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer  as for example Barclays shouldve been on the lookout for any 
unusual and out of character transactions.
I have reviewed Ds statements for several months leading up to the scam. In summary,
there were many high value payments out of the account, some of which similar in size to 
the payment that was sent to the scammer. And, the disputed payment didnt consume all of 
the funds in Ds account  which might have been an indicator it was at risk of fraud. The 
payment was to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt have given Barclays much cause for 
concern. Further, D didnt speak to or interact with Barclays staff at the time of the payment. 
So, it isnt the case that the bank missed an opportunity this way to identify that the payment 
was being made in relation to a scam.
For these reasons, I dont think the payment would have stood out as being particularly 
unusual or suspicious compared to Ds normal account activity. So, I dont think Barclays 
acted unreasonably by following Ds instructions without further enquiries about the 
payment. I am also satisfied that upon notification of the fraud, Barclays acted quickly to 
contact the receiving bank. 
Irrespective of the above, on some occasions, it is possible to consider whether a customer 
could be reimbursed under the CRM code. However, as explained by the investigator, D isnt 
covered by the code.
D has said that the situation here is similar to various other occasions where they have 
noted that the banks had agreed to reimburse the sum defrauded. So, they feel Barclays 
should do the same here. 
I can see why D feels that banks are acting an in inconsistent manner. However, as 
explained by the investigator, whilst cases may seem similar on surface when looked at in 
detail different facts and issues may be involved. My remit is to look at each complaint 
individually and make a decision on what I believe is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of that particular case. In relation to this case, it is clear that D was an 
unfortunate victim of a sophisticated scam. However, for the reasons outlined, I cant fairly 
say Barclays should have done more to prevent their loss. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
ask the bank to reimburse the payment made by D.
There have however been some delays on part of the bank in keeping D informed of the 
progress. I can see that the bank apologised for that and paid £75 to D by way of 
compensation. I am satisfied this is a fair outcome in relation to this issue
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman