DRN-4124966
The complaint
Mr B, a sole trader, is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) defaulted his 
Bounce Back Loan (BBL) account for non-payment.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr B successfully applied to RBS for a BBL. Payments towards the BBL 
were due to commence in February 2022. But Mr B was in a car accident in December 2021 
and his business had ceased trading, and he didnt make any payments towards the BBL 
when they became due. 
In June 2022, Mr B spoke with RBS about the arrears on his BBL account and about the 
possibility of him applying for a Pay-As-You-Grow (PAYG) payment deferral option which 
may have been of benefit to him. Mr B went onto RBSs website to apply for a PAYG option 
and believed that hed done so. However, he later discovered that no PAYG option had been 
set up on his account and that his BBL had been defaulted for non-payment by RBS. Mr B 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
RBS responded and explained that Mr B had begun several PAYG applications but hadnt 
completed any of them, meaning that no PAYG application had ever been submitted by him. 
Because of this, and because Mr B had never made a payment towards his BBL, RBS didnt 
feel theyd acted unfairly by defaulting the BBL for non-payment as they had. Mr B wasnt 
satisfied with RBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that RBSs defaulting of Mr Bs 
BBL for non-payment was fair. Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
The BBL agreement, which Mr B accepted in January 2021 before being granted the loan, 
included that Mr B was liable to begin repaying the BBL in February 2022. But Mr B didnt 
begin make payments to the BBL in February 2022, or indeed make any payment at all to 
the BBL, which led to RBS defaulting the loan for non-payment in September 2022.
Mr B has explained that he was in a car accident in December 2022 which impacted his 
ability to repay the BBL. But Mr B doesnt appear to have made RBS aware of this until he 
spoke with them in June 2022  six months after the accident and four months after he was 
scheduled to begin making monthly payments to the BBL. And while I can appreciate how 
Mr B may have been affected by his accident, I dont feel its reasonable to expect RBS to 
have taken this accident into account, given that they werent made aware of it.
Notably, following the conversation that Mr B had with RBS in June 2022, RBS have been 
able to demonstrate that Mr B began four PAYG applications online, but didnt complete any 
of them. The first two of these failed because Mr B stated in the application that he was no 
longer trading. RBS then confirmed with Mr B that PAYG options were available to sole 
traders that were no longer trading, but because their system had been designed when this 
wasnt the case, Mr B would need to state that he was still trading in the application to be 
able to continue. Mr B did this in the following two applications, but then didnt complete 
them such that the applications timed out.
Mr B has explained to this service that he believed hed completed a PAYG application in 
June 2022, meaning that his BBL payments were deferred. But Mr B has also explained that 
he wasnt comfortable stating that he was still trading on the PAYG application when he 
wasnt in fact doing so. But Im satisfied that RBS had explained to Mr B that he would need 
to state that he was still trading and that there was a valid reason for him having to do so  
the limitations of RBS system. 
Notably, Mr B didnt receive any confirmation from RBS that a PAYG option had been set up 
on his BBL account  as I feel it would have been reasonable for Mr B to have expected, had 
he submitted a completed application which had then been accepted and approved. And the 
fact that payments were still expected on the BBL, and that arrears continued to accrue, 
would have been evident to Mr B if hed monitored the ongoing status of the account, as per 
his responsibilities as the account holder. 
RBS have also been able to demonstrate that they attempted to contact Mr B by telephone 
and by letter about the account arrears on several occasions, both before and after the 
conversations they had with Mr B in June 2022. This is as would be expected of RBS, and 
Im satisfied that RBS did act fairly in trying to reach Mr B and discuss the BBL account with 
him. But Mr B didnt respond to those contact attempts. And after speaking with RBS in June 
2022, Mr B didnt speak with RBS again until November 2022, by which time the BBL had 
already been defaulted for non-payment by RBS.
Mr B has stated that he didnt receive the letters that were sent to him by RBS, including the 
formal demand letter, and he doesnt feel that RBS should be allowed to default an account 
without the account holder receiving a formal demand. 
But Im satisfied that RBS did send the formal demand to Mr Bs correct address, and this 
service wouldnt hold a business accountable for the non-delivery of correctly addressed 
letters. Furthermore, when Mr B referred his complaint to this service, he explained that he 
did receive the formal demand letter from RBS. And when Mr B contacted RBS in June 
2022, this was shortly after the formal demand letter had been sent and Mr B explained to 
RBS that he was unhappy with the content of the formal demand letter that hed received.
Mr B has said hed like to clear the BBL arrears now to avoid a default on the account. But 
the account has already been fairly defaulted by RBS, as explained above, and so Mr Bs 
opportunity to avoid the defaulting of the BBL has passed. As a sole trader Mr B remains 
personally liable for the BBL balance, despite his business no longer trading. If Mr B can 
now clear the balance, this should result in his credit file being amended to show the balance 
on the BBL as having been paid. But the fact the BBL defaulted will remain on Mr Bs credit 
file for six years from the date it took place, and I feel that this is fair.Mr B has also expressed his dissatisfaction that RBS passed his BBL debt to a debt 
recovery agency. But RBS are entitled to do this as per the terms of the BBL agreement, and 
so I can only encourage Mr B to communicate with the debt recovery agency about this debt.
All of which means that I dont feel that RBS have done anything wrong here. Mr B didnt 
make the payments towards the BBL he was contractually obliged to make. RBS attempted 
to contact Mr B about this via letter and by phone, but Mr B didnt respond until June 2022, 
after RBS issued a formal demand to him. 
RBS then explained to Mr B that he could apply for a PAYG payment deferral option, and 
further explained that Mr B would need to state that he was still trading on the PAYG 
application because their system had been designed at a time when PAYG wasnt available 
to sole traders that had ceased trading. But Mr B didnt complete a PAYG application, and 
arrears continued to grow on the BBL.
RBS again attempted to contact Mr B about this, but Mr B didnt respond. So, in September 
2022, six-months after Mr Bs liability to make the BBL payments started, and with no 
payments having ever been made towards the BBL by Mr B, RBS defaulted the account for 
non-payment. This seems both fair and reasonable to me, given the circumstances Ive 
described, and so I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman