DRN-4343951
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled his 
claim for subsidence on his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr B claimed on his policy with LV as hed noticed cracks in the wall of 
his house. The claim was ultimately accepted and agreed as a claim under the subsidence 
section of his policy. Due to delays and issues in the claim Mr B complained to LV. Over the 
next couple of years, the subsidence claim continued and Mr Bs neighbours properties, 
who had also had subsidence issues, had been repaired. Unfortunately, the repair works to 
Mr Bs property hadnt commenced by April 2023 and so he complained to LV again.
LV reviewed the complaint and upheld it. It accepted there had been issues with the 
handling of the claim, in particular, delays, poor communication and lack of contact from LVs 
loss adjusters and issues with the contractors appointed to handle the claim and the 
provision of alternative accommodation. LV paid Mr B £2,000 compensation for its poor 
claim handling. 
Mr B didnt think this was good enough and referred his complaint here. He said the claim 
had been ongoing for years and his neighbours properties had already been repaired and 
theyd suffered from subsidence at the same time. He said hed spent a considerable 
amount of time chasing the claim to ensure it was being progressed.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and agreed the claim had taken longer than it 
should have. She also acknowledged that Mr B was still having issues with the claim but, as 
the other issues happened after the final response sent on 3 May 2023, she could only 
consider the issues up until that date. While our investigator agreed there had been poor 
claim handling, she thoughts £2,000 was fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B had suffered. 
Mr B didnt agree, he said hed spent over 250 hours chasing LV and didnt think £2,000 
compensation was enough. 
As Mr B didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under industry guidelines LV is required to deal with claims promptly and fairly. Ive
therefore, looked at whether it has done so here. LV accepts there has been delays on
Mr Bs claim but has also said it isnt responsible for some of the delays. Ive considered the
timeline of the claim and its clear there have been considerable delays and failings by LV.
I say this because while subsidence claims can take some time, I can also see the issue Mr 
B has been claiming for have been ongoing since November 2019. While I agree not all 
delays are LVs fault, I do think LV should have done more to proactively move the claim 
forward rather than leaving it to drag on for years and for Mr B to chase.
While its disappointing this has happened, Ive looked to see if LV has done enough to put 
things right. Im satisfied £2,000 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B has suffered. I say this because Mr B has had the inconvenience of 
having to chase LV multiple times. This in turn has caused delays over a long period of time, 
which in turn has also caused Mr B to live in a property which has suffered with subsidence 
for longer than he should. As LV has already paid £2,000 to Mr B to compensate for these 
delays and poor claim handling, Im not going to tell it to pay any more for the issues up until 
3 May 2023, when LV issued its final response. If Mr B is unhappy with the claim handling 
following this date, then he would need to raise them separately. 
I appreciate Mr B doesnt think this compensation is enough as hes had issues throughout 
the journey of the claim. Hes said hes had to chase LV, spend over 250 hours on the phone 
and this impacts his work, hes also had to live in a damaged house for longer than he 
should, and this has gone on for over three years now. However, I am also aware not all 
delays are down to LV, for example some delays were due to covid. While I dont think LV 
has handled the claim as well as it should, Im satisfied £2,000 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr B has suffered up to the 3 May 2023. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman