DRN-3310737
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct bank didnt close his account 
as he requested.
What happened
Mr C says he asked first direct to close his account when his savings account matured. He 
says his request wasnt carried out and he had to speak to first direct to ask it to close the 
account. Mr C would like a small goodwill gesture to recognise what took place.
first direct says Mr C asked it to close his account in October 2021 but accepts it did not. It 
has apologised for the mistake and says it has provided feedback to the staff member.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think the mistake resulted in any financial loss as the account balance was zero and thought 
the mistake had minimal impact.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says his time is important. He also says there have been 
other mistakes in the past and maintains first direct should pay a token goodwill payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I also 
make clear to Mr C that I can only consider this complaint and not other matters that he 
refers to having taken place since he started banking with first direct.
There is no dispute here that first direct ought to have followed Mr Cs instructions and 
closed the account. I accept he was caused some inconvenience in having to contact first 
direct again. But I can see first direct has fairly apologised for the mistake and told Mr C that 
it has provided feedback to the staff member.
The key part of the complaint is that Mr C believes a small compensation payment is 
justified. But I disagree and think that not all mistakes justify compensation. Im satisfied that 
the impact on Mr C here was minimal and that there was no financial impact. And that the 
account had a zero balance which was then closed. In those circumstances Im satisfied that 
first directs apology is sufficient here to take account of the time Mr C spent in contacting 
first direct about the mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman