DRN-3501307
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Financial Services (the 
Post Office), closed his account on grounds contrary to any information it had given him. 
What happened
Mr M opened a savings account on 7 January 2010. On 9 March 2020 the Post Office wrote 
to Mr M highlighting that he had not used his account in the last 12 months, and it had a 
balance of £0.55. It gave notice that it was varying it terms to allow it, with 30 days notice, to 
close accounts where the balance was £20 or less for 12 months. It went on to say unless it 
heard back from Mr M before 8 May 2020 it would close his account. It explained the options 
he had and also made clear he could request his remaining money at any time. 
On 2 April 2020 this letter was returned as a goneaway from the address the Post Office 
held for Mr M. The Post Office closed his account on 27 May 2020. Mr M changed his 
address online with the Post Office on 20 May 2021. He raised a complaint with the Post 
Office on 25 May 2021 after he was unable to access his account on 24 May 2021. 
Mr M says he never received any terms and conditions for the account, and he wants the 
Post Office to re-instate his account and compensate him. The Post Office says the 
application pack would have included the full terms and conditions for him to retain. Mr M 
adds that the Post Office sent him a cheque for the balance in April 2022, but he returned 
this as it would imply he agrees with the banks actions and he does not.
Our investigator concluded Mr Ms complaint should not be upheld. He said the Post Office 
had acted in accordance with the terms of the account, based on Mr Ms use of it. And he 
found it had taken reasonable steps to let Mr M know what would happen given he wasnt 
using the account and it had a low balance. He acknowledged Mr M hadnt received the 
letter of 9 March 2020, but noted Mr M had not updated his address until 20 May 2021  and 
the terms required him to keep his contact details up-to-date. 
He clarified that the banks final response letter had referenced the wrong year for the 
account closure (2021) when all other evidence showed it was 2020. As the Post Office had 
apologised for this he didnt feel any other action was needed. He subsequently sent Mr M a 
copy of the account terms and conditions and the notice of variation dated 9 March 2020.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators assessment. He said at no point had he received the 
full terms and conditions for his account from the Post Office, and the ones he now has had 
sight of from 2018 refer to a minimum balance of £100. He also added that he did not 
receive an updated card. And the booklet he has does not reference any balance restriction 
under the Closing your account section. He also sent in a copy of mail that was sent to his 
next-door neighbour which seemed to be the cheque for the balance that he had returned 
unopened to the Post Office. 
He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I have carefully considered all the points Mr M has made during the investigation but in 
keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service, I will focus here on those I 
find to be material to the outcome of his complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M argues that he was never given a full set of the terms and conditions so how could he 
be aware of the minimum balance condition. The Post Office says Mr M would have received 
a copy of the terms and conditions at the point of application in the application pack, along 
with the application form and account brochure. The application form would have been 
completed and removed for processing; all other information would have been available to 
be retained by Mr M. So whilst I dont doubt that Mr M is sharing his honest recollection, I 
think on balance its most likely he did receive a set of the terms when he opened his 
account. I say this as the Post Office position is based on its standard account opening 
process in place at the time. I understand he might not remember this as it was over ten 
years ago.
The Closing your account term that is relevant to the Post Offices actions that Mr M is 
complaining about was then varied in the letter of 9 March 2020. This format is an 
acceptable Notice of variation and it set out that the Post Office had the right to close your 
Account by giving you at least 30 days notice where your balance has remained £20.00 or 
less for the preceding 12 months. It made clear what Mr Ms options were. 
I understand that Mr M did not receive this letter but that was because he had failed to 
update his contact details: he has confirmed he had access to his previous address only until 
September 2018 but I can see from the Post Offices records that he didnt provide his new 
address until 20 May 2021.  So I cant hold the Post Office responsible for the non-receipt of 
the letter. And this letter varied, and superseded, the term that Mr M references in the 2018 
terms that stated the minimum permitted balance was £100.
It follows I dont find any failings in the way the Post Office closed Mr Ms account and held 
the balance, until its attempted return in April 2022. I also note from the Post Offices 
submission that Mr M called to request the return of his balance on 12 April 2022 at 13.49 
hours. 
With regards the seemingly related mail sent to his neighbour the Post Office has confirmed 
that as it appears linked to the cheque Mr M returned to a Royal Mail Delivery Office (that it 
never received) this is not something it can comment on as it was resent by the Royal Mail 
(not the Post Office Financial Services). I find this to be a fair comment.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my findings and conclusion, but I hope he will get 
some comfort from that fact a further independent third-party has reviewed his case. I will 
leave Mr M to decide whether he now wishes to request another copy of the cheque so he 
can cash it. He should contact the Post Office directly to do this.
I note Mr M also mentioned that he was concerned his account was impacted by the Post Offices problems with its computer systems. But he has provided no evidence to support his 
claim so I cant investigate further. I can reassure him though that the systems issues that 
have been widely reported were linked to the Post Office counters and not the Bank of 
Irelands systems (the business that runs its financial services). 
Mr M also asked more recently why his old card hadnt been replaced. I have not 
investigated this as it did not form part of his complaint to the Post Office and I dont think it 
was a dependency for reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. Mr M would 
need to first raise this issue with the bank to allow it to respond, and he could then bring a 
new complaint to us if he is unhappy with the reply.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman