DRN-3193019
The complaint
Mr C complains about the actions and service of Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
following a theft claim on his motor insurance policy.
Other companies were involved in this complaint, but as Admiral as responsible for it Ive just 
referred to them in this decision. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, setting out whatd happened, and what I 
thought about that. Ive copied the relevant sections below, and they form part of this final 
decision. 
In January 2020 Mr Cs car was unfortunately stolen. It was recovered a few days later by 
the police and taken to one of Admirals garages. Mr C says he thought this garage wasnt 
capable of assessing his cars safety or integrity, as they were only asked to look at external 
damage. Mr C says it took a while to convince Admiral to move the car, when they finally 
agreed it took weeks, and then they withheld the diagnostic information. 
Mr C was then told some of the damage was pre-accident, so he was being held responsible 
for those costs. He says this went on for around six weeks before they then arranged for a 
second assessment. Having done so, that assessment also said it was pre-accident 
damage.
In August 2020 Mr C contacted us, saying hed had so many mixed messages and the 
customer service hadnt been good enough. He said hes been told to collect the car and pay 
for the storage  even though hes been constantly trying to talk to them about it. He added 
that when they tried to start the car, lots of warning lights came on. He said hes felt 
constantly pressured to take the car back even though he didnt think it was safe  so he felt 
Admiral should write off the car, or at least pay him damages for the length of time hes been 
without it.
Mr C had regular contact with Admiral during the claim about issues he was concerned with 
 leading to Admiral issuing seven final response letters to his complaints. Each of those 
letters gave Mr C six months to bring the complaint to us.
The first of those was brought to us outside of the six months time limit, and Ive explained 
in a separate decision why we cant consider the issues in that letter  so I wont mention 
them again. But we can consider the remaining points.
Points Admiral accepted 
1. Mr C wasnt told his car had been transferred to a main dealer garage, when hed 
asked to be told. And an email he sent on 27 February 2020 wasnt responded to 
until 5 March 2020. For these two issues, Admiral paid £100 compensation.
2. Further communication issues  including Mr C raising concerns about a leaking 
gearbox and being told the car is roadworthy but that wasnt his point  and told he 
didnt need to collect his car due to Covid-19 but has since been told he does need to 
collect the car. Mr C was unhappy with this conflicting information. Admiral paid a 
further £100 for these issues.
3. MOT completed in December 2020 failed due to a bulge in the car tyre, and Mr C felt 
Admiral had lied about the roadworthiness of the car. Admiral said the car was 
roadworthy in May 2020, and the bulge in the tyre might not be their responsibility  
but having referred to an engineer theyd accept this. They paid £200 compensation, 
and said theyd refund the cost of the tyre which came to £79.
Points Admiral didnt accept
1. Unhappy with the assessment completed because there was no evidence the wheel 
alignment or gearbox had been checked.
2. A photo of an invoice was sent to Mr C, rather than an official document itemising the 
work completed on the car  Mr C would prefer the official document so he could be 
satisfied the car was roadworthy and safe to drive.
3. Mr Cs car developed a leaking gearbox and doesnt agree with Admirals 
assessment that its pre-accident damage.
4. Mr Cs car being with Admiral for repairs for eight months.
5. Due to the time taken to carry out repairs, Mr C felt he had to buy a new car and 
wanted Admiral to pay the insurance on his old car for two months so he could sell it. 
Alternatively, he wanted Admiral to arrange to sell his old car  and they said they 
couldnt do either of these two things. 
6. After the repairs were completed mould on the rear seats developed and scratches 
were on the car that werent there previously. Admiral didnt agree they were 
responsible for either of these two issues but said a local car cleaner could clean the 
interior of Mr Cs car for £20, so they sent him a cheque for that.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. They felt that although his claim had 
taken a long time, he didnt think that was Admirals fault  so he didnt think they needed to 
do anything further.
Mr C didnt accept this. He said given he was without a car for so long he didnt think Admiral 
had acted fairly. He said the compensation sent to him over the course of the year doesnt 
equate to the stress and hardship that he experienced as a result of their actions and 
mistakes. He said he felt regularly bullied by Admiral to take back a car that was later found 
to be legally unfit for the roads and considers that was a reckless endangerment of his life.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Points Admiral acceptedIve considered the points Ive listed above. As Admiral have accepted theyve made 
mistakes, I dont need to decide that. Instead, Ill need to focus on what I think appropriate 
compensation would be for those mistakes  taking into account Mr Cs comments.
But rather than deciding what compensation is appropriate for each issue, Ill consider what 
a fair compensation amount would be in total  for all the issues that I think are worthy of 
compensation. To do that, I also need to consider the points Admiral didnt accept  as if I 
find theyve not treated Mr C fairly on some of the points theyve said they have, then I have 
to consider what fair compensation would be including that issue. So, Ill come back to this at 
the end.
Points Admiral didnt accept
1. Unhappy with the assessment completed because there was no evidence the wheel 
alignment or gearbox had been checked.
Initially it seems Mr C wasnt given sufficient evidence for him to be satisfied the wheel 
alignment or gearbox had been checked.
Admiral explained theyd instructed an approved repairer after the theft of Mr Cs car. They 
said their instructions were clear and appropriate testing was completed to ensure 
everything was to a satisfactory and manufacturing standard  but accept the evidence to 
support the inspections didnt meet Mr Cs expectations initially. 
The report was completed on 20 February 2020, received by Admiral on 25 February and 
first sent to Mr C on 27 February. I dont find this an unreasonable time to provide the report. 
And, after Mr C raised some queries regarding this, Admiral replied on 5 March, and again 
on 9 March when Mr C said hed not received the report. 
Although I understand Mr Cs frustration, I dont think Admiral have taken an unreasonable 
amount of time to provide the report. I also think its reasonable for them to be satisfied that 
the wheel alignment and gearbox were considered and not seen to be a concern by the 
garage. Looking at the report provided it doesnt mention the wheel alignment or gearbox 
specifically, but it does say The vehicle appears to have suffered very light theft or 
attempted theft damage. It also says, In our opinion this vehicle has suffered no damage in 
the incident under review which would render it unroadworthy. The vehicle is currently 
considered roadworthy.
So, I dont uphold this element of Mr Cs complaint.
2. A photo of an invoice was sent to Mr C, rather than an official document itemising the 
work completed on the car  Mr C would prefer this confirmed the car was 
roadworthy and safe to drive.
Linked to the above point, Admiral explained they were satisfied theyd received appropriate 
documents to confirm Mr Cs car was safe to drive. 
Given that the garages report said the car was roadworthy, I dont think Admiral needed to 
do anything further on this point.
3. Mr Cs car developed a leaking gearbox and doesnt agree with Admirals 
assessment its pre-accident damage.
Admiral explained theyd instructed an independent engineer to consider Mr Cs car, and 
theyd said the damage was historic, so wouldnt be upholding this complaint point.Ive considered the report Admiral mentioned. In it, the independent engineer says the car 
was lifted up on a ramp for inspection. Theyve said The underside of the gearbox displayed 
a large area of staining to the external casings, the staining is from oil leaks from the 
gearbox. There is no evidence of fresh oil visible to the underside of the gearbox. From the 
road film that has adhered to the oil around the gearbox casings we can advise these leaks 
are historic and not related to this claim.
I think its important to explain that were not engineers, so need to rely on the evidence 
provided by experts unless theres a good reason not to. Generally, this could be in the form 
of a separate report that contradicts one Admiral have relied on. But here, Ive not been 
provided with anything to dispute these findings. Given that, I can only reasonably conclude 
that Admiral have acted fairly in relying on this report to say they wouldnt uphold Mr Cs 
point about the leaking gearbox being as a result of the theft.
4. Mr Cs car being with Admiral for repairs for eight months.
Admirals response to this point was to explain that as a result of warning lights coming on 
the dashboard of Mr Cs car when it had been repaired, the car was now at a main dealers 
to investigate these issues. They said as a result of that, it was outside their approved 
repairers control, so didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr Cs car was recovered on 13 January 2020, and Admirals response was sent 
6 October 2020. I dont think when Mr C complained about the car being with Admiral for 
eight months, he meant since the warning lights had come on  he meant from the beginning 
to the end. So, Ive looked through the history of whats happened.
On several occasions Mr C has disputed the work completed on the car. Hes suggested its 
not been done to an appropriate standard, that he wont collect the car until hes seen 
evidence of it being roadworthy, and Covid-19 also seems to have caused some delays  as 
he says hed been told to stay indoors. Mr C of course is entitled to raise concerns if he has 
them, about the state of repairs or his cars roadworthiness . But, in raising those points itll 
inevitably lead to delays while further investigations are carried out. Ive also noted that when 
some repairs have been completed, further issues have then cropped up  such as the 
warning lights coming on. Admirals approved repairer needed to get this booked into a main 
dealer for review  but this took some time which is outside their control. Ive been unable to 
identify,when looking at the timeline of Mr Cs claim, where I think Admiral have caused any 
unreasonable delays. So, I dont uphold this point. 
5. Due to the time taken to carry out repairs, Mr C felt he had to buy a new car and 
wanted Admiral to pay the insurance on his old car for two months so he could sell it. 
Alternatively, he wanted Admiral to arrange to sell his old car  and they said they 
couldnt do either of these two things. 
In their response on 6 October 2020 Admiral agreed Mr Cs car had been delivered back 
with no insurance, as itd expired on 3 August 2020. But they said theyve given the right 
information by saying they couldnt provide temporary insurance or reactivate the policy for a 
short time. 
Given Ive found Admiral havent made any errors regarding how long they had Mr Cs car, it 
follows I dont think they can or should be held responsible for Mr Cs insurance expiring  
nor do I think they should take ownership of the car and sell it.Setting the timeframe aside, itd still be Mr Cs responsibility to ensure his car has insurance 
 unless Admiral have made a mistake. I cant see theyve made any mistakes leading to 
Mr C ending up in this situation, so I dont uphold this part of his complaint.
6. After the repairs were completed mould on the rear seats developed and scratches 
were on the car that werent there previously. Admiral didnt agree they were 
responsible for either of these two issues but said a local car cleaner could clean the 
interior of Mr Cs car for £20, so they sent him a cheque for that.
Admiral said theyd instructed another independent assessor to look at the issues thatd 
been raised.
For the mould, Admiral said the assessor reported clothing, discarded wrapping and liquid 
containers visible in the original images of the rear seats  though they couldnt say if this 
was from Mr C, or the thieves. The assessor said because the car had stood for so long, 
heavy moisture content had occurred under the clothing  causing mould to appear. The 
assessor said no further repair work was required, but a local car cleaner could clean Mr Cs 
car for £20  which is why they paid this amount to him.
For the scratches, the assessor said these were pre-accident damage.
At this point Mr Cs car has had three inspections. The initial inspection when his car was 
recovered, a second inspection regarding the leaking gearbox, and this third inspection 
regarding the mould and scratches.
For the mould element Ive looked back at the first inspection  and its clear from the photos 
taken at the time there are a lot of items in the backseat of the car. I wouldnt expect Admiral 
to clear that out, as in Mr Cs case they couldnt know if the items were his, or the thieves. 
And, any items that were his arent theirs to remove  as they wont know what Mr C may or 
may not have wanted to keep. Ive seen through the history of the claim Mr C was given the 
opportunity to go to the car but didnt. At times I can see that was due to Covid-19 
restrictions, but there were also times when that didnt apply and he could have gone and 
seen the car. So, with that in mind I dont think I can say Admiral are responsible for the 
mould and I think the £20 theyve paid to Mr C to get his car cleaned is fair.
The first inspection report also talks about the scratches in a section titled unrelated 
damage. The report says offside doors deep scratch touched in with paint, minor scratches 
all round touched up with paint. The second report repeats the same information about the 
scratches from the first report. And, in the third report theyve said The vehicle displayed 
multiple malicious type scratches around the vehicle that have previously been touched in 
with paint. There is a fresh dent with a scratch to the offside front wing, this is very fresh as 
the scratch has not discoloured from road dirt or weather conditions. The vehicle does have 
very minor scratches around the vehicle we would expect from a vehicle of this age. When 
we inspected this vehicle on the 2 previous occasions we can advise all damages except the 
offside front wing dent and scratch were present.
So, it would seem that the majority of the issues were present on the first inspection. The 
explanations are consistent with pre-accident damage, and in line with point 3 above Ive got 
nothing to dispute that.
But I didnt think that Admiral had addressed the fresh dent thatd occurred, and I asked if it 
was possible itd happened while under their agents control. 
Admiral replied to say theres no evidence to prove this, saying the dent could have 
happened while the car was back with Mr C as the scratch in the dent was very fresh and unaffected by dirt or road conditions. They did acknowledge they couldnt prove this either 
way.
I accept its possible it could have happened while back with Mr C, but I also think it could 
have happened while with Admirals agent. As Admiral say, theres not enough information 
to prove this either way  so Ill factor this in when thinking about appropriate compensation.
Appropriate compensation
So far, Admiral have paid £400 compensation, £79 for a tyre and £20 for the cleaning of his 
car.
One element of this I can see Mr C has disputed strongly is about his car failing its MOT. He 
says Admiral put his life in danger because one of the tyres had a bulge  making it unsafe 
for driving.
Admirals reply was to say that in May 2020, five months before the car was returned, it was 
deemed all safe and roadworthy following appropriate checks. Admiral have explained the 
bulge could be general wear and tear from road use and could have happened at any time. 
Admiral explained an MOT is a far more stringent inspection, and this is a common failing.
I can see why Mr C would be concerned about this. He raised issues when his car was first 
repaired about whether itd been done properly. Ive set out above Im satisfied Admiral have 
acted fairly in saying it was. And, Im reaching the same findings here. Having reviewed all of 
the reports in detail Ive not seen anything to suggest Admiral knew or should have known 
there was a problem with the tyre. That means, as Admiral have said, its possible the issue 
developed between May 2020 when the second inspection was carried out, and 
December 2020 when the MOT was completed. Hes also said this put his life at risk. Im 
sorry to hear thats how he felt when this issue was discovered  because that really cant 
have been a good feeling. But, Ive also got to consider that I cant see Mr C raised this issue 
prior to it being picked up by an MOT. And the reason I say that is because I think it 
illustrates that the issue with the tyre wasnt necessarily obvious. 
I cant know for certain when the tyre issue happened. Ive got a report in May 2020 saying 
the car is roadworthy, and an MOT seven months later saying the tyre has failed. Given no 
one can know when it happened, and I accept Admirals argument this can be a wear and 
tear issue  I think them paying Mr C £200 for this, and refunding the tyre cost, is fair as I 
cant know if theyve actually done something wrong here.
Taking everything into account I do think overall £400 compensation (plus £79 for the tyre, 
and £20 for cleaning) for the issues that have happened is fair. In summary, its two 
communication issues (Points 1 and 2 which Admiral accepted), the MOT tyre issue (which I 
cant know Admiral made an error for) and the scratch (which I cant know Admirals agent is 
responsible for).
My understanding is that Admiral have already paid Mr C the £499 I think is a fair resolution 
to this case. If he disputes that, he can let us know in response to this provisional decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C replied saying he was extremely disappointed with my decision. He felt Id failed to 
consider the emotional stress of dealing with the bullies at Admiral for a year, and not 
having a car for a year due to their unprofessional conduct. He said the financial 
reimbursement of £499 after not having his car for a year is unacceptable. He said the car 
should have been returned to him immediately in working order, and he expected £1,000 compensation for their failures.
Admiral didnt reply by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr C is very disappointed, and things have gone on for a very long time, 
to award further compensation Id need to find Admiral were responsible for that.
As Ive set out above, Ive not found anything to suggest Admiral have caused any 
unreasonable delays  and Mr C hasnt pointed out any times where he thinks they have in 
response to my provisional decision.
Im sorry that Mr C thought Id not considered about the emotional stress hed been under 
when dealing with Admiral. I did consider that when thinking about the total compensation 
that I felt would be fair. Although I think at times Admirals communication could have been 
better, I didnt see anything to suggest theyd bullied Mr C as hes suggested. I think overall 
their communication was factual, albeit at times unhelpful and misleading (Points 1 and 2 
which Admiral accepted above).
Taking everything into account, I remain satisfied Admiral paying Mr C a total of £499 is a 
fair way of resolving this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman