DRN-3306409
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the service shes received from Close Brothers Limited (CBL), 
trading as Close Brothers Savings, surrounding an overseas transfer she wanted to make 
into her account.
What happened
Miss C visited her overseas bank to arrange a transfer of funds into her UK registered CBL 
savings account. The overseas bank requested the International Banking Number (IBAN) 
and Bank Identifier Code (BIC) for the CBL account, so Miss C telephone CBL and asked 
for this information, which her overseas bank then used to instruct the transfer.
A few days later, Miss C received a message from CBL advising that theyd received funds 
from an unauthorised third party and that they were in the process of returning the funds to 
the sender. Miss C wasnt happy about this, or that the amount that was received back into 
her overseas account was less than the amount that was initially transferred. So, she raised 
a complaint.
CBL looked into Miss Cs complaint. They confirmed that as per the terms of the CBL 
savings account, transfers into the account can only be received from a UK nominated bank 
account, which Miss Cs overseas account was not. CBL also confirmed that they had 
returned the full value of the funds that theyd received, and that any reduction in overall 
value would be the result of fees charged by her overseas bank as well as potential 
exchange rate differences.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with CBLs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that CBL had acted 
unfairly towards Miss C in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt uphold 
Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Miss C for her intended transfer to 
have been returned to her overseas bank account by CBL, especially as shed contacted 
CBL and requested the IBAN and BIC information from them so as to enable the transfer to 
complete.
Im aware that Miss C feels that CBL should have informed her at the time that she 
contacted them to ask for IBAN and BIC that she wouldnt be able to make a transfer into her 
CBL savings account from the overseas account that she was intending.
Ive considered this point and Ive listened to a recording of the telephone call where Miss C 
contacts CBL and requests the IBAN and BIC information. On that call, Miss C explains to 
CBLs agent that she is overseas and wanting to transfer some money into her CBL account. 
Miss C then advises that her overseas bank has requested the IBAN and BIC, and the CBL 
agent then provides this information to her.
Importantly, the call remains informal. Miss C doesnt complete security with the CBL agent 
and as such the CBL agent isnt aware of the specific type of account which Miss C holds 
with them  which is one that doesnt accept transfers into the account from overseas 
sources.
Given that Miss C had asked for specific information from the CBL agent, I dont feel that the 
agent acted unfairly or unreasonably by providing that specifically requested information to 
Miss C without taking Miss C through security and checking whether her account would 
permit such a transfer.
Miss C may contend that because some of CBLs accounts dont allow transfers in from 
overseas sources, the agent with whom she spoke should have checked this point. 
I can appreciate Miss Cs position here, but I feel that as the account holder, it was 
incumbent on Miss C to have understood whether her CBL account had any restrictions in 
this regard. And I note that the terms of the CBL savings account do confirm that transfers 
into the account will only be accepted from the nominated UK bank account.
It's unfortunate that Miss C made the specific request for information that she did when 
calling CBL. And I feel that had Miss C made a slightly different, more broadly worded 
request, then it may have been the case that the agent with whom she spoke would have 
been promoted to look at the specific account that Miss C held and the restrictions on 
transferring money into the account may have come to Miss Cs attention at that time.
But as explained, I dont feel that CBLs agent did act unfairly by providing the IBAN and BIC 
information to Miss C that she specifically asked for, and I dont feel that it was unreasonable 
for CBLs agent to assume that by asking for that information, Miss C already understood the 
nature of her account and any restrictions that may apply to it. 
All of which means that while I can appreciate how Miss C might feel aggrieved, I dont feel 
that CBL acted unfairly towards Miss C in providing the information to her that she requested 
or by returning the funds that they received from an unauthorised overseas account. 
Additionally, while I appreciate Miss Cs dissatisfaction at having received less money back 
into the overseas account than was initially transferred out, CBL have been able to 
demonstrate that they didnt charge any fees on the transfer attempt, and that any difference 
in value received back must be as a result of fees charged by Miss Cs overseas bank as 
well as possibly because of movements in currency exchange rates. 
And given that I dont feel that CBL have acted unfairly by returning the transferred funds, it 
follows that I also dont feel that CBL should be held accountable for any reduction in those 
funds brought about by the transfer to CBL and its return to Miss Cs overseas back.
It follows therefore that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing CBL to take any 
further action at this time. I realise this wont be the outcome Miss C was wanting, but I hope 
that shell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman