DRN-1187688
The complaint
Ms E complains about how Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE dealt with her mobile phone 
insurance claim. My references to Liberty Mutual include its agents.
What happened
Ms E had mobile phone insurance, insured by Liberty Mutual. She complains about the 
replacement mobile phone she received following a claim she made on her policy.
Ms E tried to change the replacement phone battery as it kept turning off. She knew the 
phone was out of warranty and took it to the phone manufacturer where she planned to pay 
for the repair. But the phone manufacturer refused to repair. Ms E said the manufacturer told 
her the phone was a condemned phone and had been previously registered to another 
customer. She says she was never told her replacement phone would be refurbished and 
the manufacturer wouldnt repair the phone.
Liberty Mutual said the policy was clear it could provide a refurbished phone to settle a 
claim. The replacement phone came with a two year warranty that had expired.
Our investigator thought Liberty Mutual fairly provided a refurbished phone to settle Ms Es 
claim.  
Ms E doesnt agree and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said Liberty Mutual shouldnt 
give refurbished phones if it knew the phone manufacturer wouldnt repair them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.
The policy is clear that Liberty Mutual may provide a refurbished phone when Ms E makes a 
successful claim. So it acted fairly in sending her a refurbished replacement phone to settle 
her claim. 
Most if not all mobile phone insurance policies have a similar term and dont guarantee to 
provide a brand new replacement phone to settle a claim.
As Ms E knew her replacement phones two year warranty had ended she wanted to pay the 
phone manufacturer to repair. But its a matter for the phone manufacturer whether it will 
repair a refurbished phone. From the information Ive seen it didnt think the phone was 
registered to another customer at the time Ms E took the phone in but that it had been 
previously registered to someone else, which was likely as the phone was refurbished. 
As Liberty Mutual could fairly send Ms E a refurbished phone for her claim its not at fault for 
the manufacturers decision not to repair the phone.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman