DRN-3304685
The complaint
Ms F and Mr W complain about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with a payment into 
their account.
What happened
Mr W says his uncle attempted to transfer £250,000 into his Nationwide account. He says 
the payment was rejected on three occasions by Nationwide despite a similar payment by 
his family member being accepted by Nationwide. Mr W says previous smaller payments 
have been made by his uncle to him without difficulty. He says Nationwide told him the issue 
was with the senders bank information being incorrect. Mr W in summary would like an 
explanation, compensation and an apology.
Nationwide says there was an issue with the sending banks address and so it correctly 
rejected the payment. It accepts there was a delay in dealing with the complaint and paid 
£50 compensation.
Mr W and Ms F brought their complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Nationwide incorrectly told Mr W the issue was with the sending banks 
address when the issue was with the senders address. The investigator thought Nationwide 
should have told Mr W that and recommended it pay a further £150 compensation.
Nationwide agrees with that recommendation.
Mr W and Ms F dont agree with the investigators view. They question why previous 
transfers were successfully made and question how another family member received their 
money with the same information into their Nationwide account. Mr W says he has a 
suspicion of malice on the part of Nationwide and says his uncle has suffered a financial loss 
caused by the rejected payments. He would like an assurance that there will be no further 
problems and an undertaking that Nationwide will properly train its staff on these issues. Mr 
W would also like an explanation and apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint in part but make 
clear to Mr W and Ms F that this decision will not answer all of their questions about what 
took place. I appreciate Mr W and Ms F are likely to have unanswered questions about what 
took place and the difference in how transfers were dealt with.
It may help the parties if I make clear that we are not Nationwides regulator. So, it follows 
that we cant direct for example its staff are suitably trained on these issues as Mr W 
suggests they should be and its not our role to punish Nationwide or carry out an 
investigation into it or into what took place.
There can be no doubt that Nationwide made a mistake in telling Mr W that the problem here 
was caused by the incorrect details of the sending bank. I accept in those circumstances that 
meant that the further payments were rejected by Nationwide. It follows that I agree with the 
investigator that Nationwide ought to have explained what the correct issue was, and I 
accept that Mr W was caused inconvenience by that mistake. Im satisfied that Nationwide 
should pay the £150 compensation which I think is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects 
what took place and that there wasnt any financial loss by Mr W or Ms F. I appreciate that 
Mr W has made clear that the compensation amount isnt important or the main part of the 
complaint, but I make clear what I think is an appropriate compensation amount.
I appreciate Mr W says his uncle has suffered a financial loss. But we can only consider Mr 
W and Ms Fs complaint and not any losses suffered by Mr Ws uncle. It would be for him to 
make a complaint if he wished. We are not a court and do not consider linked costs in these 
circumstances as Mr W suggests we ought.
I also appreciate that Mr W would like to know the exact reasons why the transfer was 
rejected. But I cant see that Nationwide can provide any more information than it has 
already provided in circumstances where it says its systems rejected the payment due to an 
address issue with the sender. I appreciate Nationwide may have accepted a payment with 
the exact information in respect of Mr Ws family member and appreciate his frustration in 
those circumstances. But I cant see what else Nationwide can say on that issue and accept 
that on the face of it that decision, to accept one payment but not the other, appears 
contradictory. I again make clear that we are not Nationwides regulator and as I have 
explained its not our role to punish a business or tell it how it runs its business or direct it on 
staff training issues. Im satisfied that the proposed compensation award deals with the delay 
here.
Overall, I have no doubt Nationwide could have dealt more appropriately with what ought to 
have been a straightforward issue. I cant fairly order Nationwide provide Mr W with any 
assurances about future payments and its not our role to direct that it provides a formal 
apology. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally 
can do.
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay Mr W and Ms F a further £150 compensation. Their acceptance of 
that award would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Nationwide Building Society 
to pay Ms F and Mr W a further £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman