DRN-3875099
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the customer service provided by Revolut Ltd when he tried to raise a 
chargeback.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr G made two small transactions an hour apart, for different amounts and 
with different retailers. Believing hed been charged twice by the first retailer, Mr G contacted 
Revolut using the in-app chat function and told the agent he hadnt authorised the second 
amount that had been debited. Revolut blocked Mr Gs card for security reasons, and let him 
know he could unblock it later himself in the app.
Revolut quickly established that the second payment had been made with the card 
physically present at the terminal  and as Mr G still had the card with him, the agent 
advised he must have made the transaction. Revolut added that the merchants name 
appearing on his transaction history may be different to the brand name he made the 
purchase from, but it looked like it was a restaurant or eating place of some kind. The agent 
also explained the location showing for the transaction wasnt necessarily the actual place 
the payment was made  its often the merchants headquarters. 
Mr G maintained the second amount had been stolen, so Revolut asked him to complete a 
chargeback form to allow it to investigate. Mr G asked the agent to complete the form on his 
behalf, and the agent agreed but advised it might take longer than completing it himself. A 
short while later, the chargeback team asked for Mr G to complete the form again as it 
needed more details. Frustrated by the progress of his request, Mr G asked to raise a 
complaint. Revolut initially sent a complaint form for Mr G to complete himself, but after he 
asked the agent to start the complaints process on his behalf Revolut completed it for him.  
The following day Revolut issued its final response, and didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint as it 
thought hed been treated fairly. Revolut maintained the transaction must have been put 
through by him, and as such it wasnt one they could recall. It also reiterated what it had told 
Mr G previously about the potentially different merchant name and location to what was 
showing. Mr G later told Revolut he had made the transaction in question, remembering hed 
authorised it during a flight, but had been confused by how it appeared on his statement. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the response so referred his complaint to our service for review. He 
told us he was upset hed wasted 3 hours of his time over such a small amount. He was also 
unhappy Revolut had cancelled his card, and had confused him with an incorrect location for 
the transaction. Mr G added that he didnt find agent the helpful, and was confused that 
Revolut had seemingly reversed the transaction in the end anyway.
An investigator here thought Revolut had acted reasonably and tried to assist. In her view, 
Revolut hadnt caused Mr Gs confusion, as it wasnt responsible for the location showing for 
the transaction or the merchants name as it appeared on his statement. Mr G didnt accept 
the investigators view, and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision  so the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ive explained why below.
I reviewed the in-app chat history and didnt find any evidence of poor customer service. I 
consider the agent was trying to help, though its clear Mr G was getting frustrated. Revolut 
quickly identified Mr G must have made the transaction, and clearly explained why that was 
the case. It also explained there may be a difference in the location and merchant name he 
was seeing. The back and forth that ensued was borne out of Mr G not accepting what 
Revolut was telling him  though he later did realise he had authorised the transaction. So I 
havent found that Revoluts actions were the cause of any unnecessary frustration or effort. 
I also dont think Revolut acted unreasonably by initially asking Mr G to complete the forms 
himself. He was best placed to express his chargeback claim and complaint, and Revolut did 
fill them in for him when asked. I accept the chargeback team later asked Mr G to complete 
the form again, as it needed more information  but I dont think that could have been 
avoided, as Revolut was struggling to find a basis for the chargeback request. I know Mr G 
feels his time was wasted and things couldnt have been done quicker  but even if I thought 
Revolut were at fault here, that kind of minor inconvenience or frustration isnt something 
wed award for.
I appreciate the location showing for the transaction and unknown merchant name might 
have confused Mr G, but neither of those things were Revoluts fault  it has limited control 
over that information. It also flagged those potential issues early on following his contact, to 
try and help Mr G remember the payment. Mr G has sent us a screenshot which suggests 
the transaction was reversed, and its standard process for that to happen initially while a 
chargeback is investigated. It may have later been re-debited, once the chargeback team 
reached an outcome  but even if it wasnt, then Mr G has gained from that. 
I havent seen any evidence Revolut cancelled Mr Gs card at the time, but the agent did 
explain it could be easily unblocked later using the app or through the chat service. It was 
reasonable that Revolut blocked the card as a precaution while it investigated, given Mr G 
was claiming money had been stolen from his account. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman