DRN-3136277
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Paymentsense Limited hasnt credited it for all the card 
payments its taken.
What happened
P has a merchant processing agreement. It noticed that some of the card payments it had 
processed werent being settled. It says that there was no indication that any of these 
payments hadnt been successful at the time. And it says that when it checked back through 
2020, the total involved was £1,406.60. P says that it received a new payment terminal in 
December 2020, but this didnt solve the issue. P said it would be embarrassing now to have 
to go back to its clients for payment.
Paymentsense said that the payments had been reversed. There were a number of reasons 
why this could happen including a drop in connection when the payment was being 
processed, removing the card too quickly or technical issues. It said that without the card 
details of Ps clients it couldnt reapply the payments. And it said that the terms and 
conditions of its agreement with P didnt cover loss of earnings.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and P be paid £1,406.60. He 
agreed that there would be a reputational issue now for P if it had to contact the clients. And 
he saw no evidence that P had made a mistake in processing the payments or that it was 
alerted to any issue. The problem wasnt solved with a replacement terminal. He said that 
his interpretation of loss of earnings would be consequential losses. But that wasnt the 
position here. It was P as a merchant not being paid for transactions that had been 
authorised and where there was no explanation for the reversals.
Paymentsense didnt agree. It said that it couldnt determine for certain why a transaction 
reversed. And neither could the acquiring bank. It accepted that this was frustrating for P but 
said that this was the information it had. There are a broad range of explanations. It had 
offered to end Ps agreement at no cost which it thought was a fair gesture.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
P has explained that it processes multiple transactions and has a separate outlet at which 
there had never been any similar issues. Its trading in 2020 was affected by the pandemic 
and it didnt come to realise the issue until later in the year. I understand from the nature of 
its business that it has regular clients.
P has provided a spreadsheet with the payments that havent been settled. It has also 
provided copies of the merchant receipt its received for a number of them. I cant see any 
indication for P that there was a problem. I do note that it had brought an issue with some of 
the contactless payments to Paymentsenses attention. I also note that on 27 November 
2020 a member of staff at Paymentsense wrote to P and said that It seems like something 
internal may be incorrect and needs addressing.
I can understand that there may be circumstances where an occasional payment might be 
reversed due to technical issues. But here there is a pattern of some payments failing and 
no evidence that any issue was brought to Ps attention so it could be rectified. I think P was 
reasonably entitled to think that the merchant receipts it was receiving would be settled 
unless told to the contrary. And so, it continued to use the machine in this way. I know it has 
referred to this potentially happening in prior years. But I also think it reasonable that 
eventually the issue came to its attention when preparing its accounts for example. I accept 
that its ability to realise would have been affected by the wider issues in 2020 its referred to. 
So, I find that any claim for missing transactions should be limited to 2020 and based on 
what it has already submitted in evidence.
In the absence of any information suggesting an error in the way P processed the 
transactions or even an explanation for what happened I think that it should fairly receive this 
money. I dont think its reasonable for P to have to contact its clients to reprocess these 
amounts. Thats something that could have been resolved without reputational damage had 
it been told by Paymentsense that the card payments werent going through at the time. I 
agree with our investigator that Paymentsense was responsible for these payments being 
settled. And such amount in these circumstances isnt fairly excluded in my view as a 
consequential loss or loss of earnings in the terms and conditions of its agreement with P.
Im not looking here at any wider agreement being terminated and am focussing on the 
complaint point about the missing payments. I find that these should be paid to P.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Paymentsense Limited to pay P 
£1,406.60.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman