DRN-2724529
The complaint
Ms S complains that the interest rate applied by UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd on her 
buy to let mortgage is too high. She asks that it reduces the interest rate and refunds the 
interest she says it over charged.
What happened
Ms S took out a buy to let mortgage with UCB in 2008. She took out a fixed rate product that 
ended in 2010. Since then Ms Ss mortgage has been on UCBs Investment Flexible 
Variable Rate (IFVR).
Ms S says the IFVR is very high compared to current interest rates. She says shes been 
unable to take out a new product with UCB or move to another lender because the security 
property is in negative equity. Ms S says, as a result, shes paid far more interest than she 
should fairly have done.
Our investigator said UCB had applied interest in accordance with the mortgage terms and 
conditions. She said Ms S hadnt contacted UCB about taking out a new product, and UCBs 
variable rate wasnt out of line with other lenders, bearing in mind this is a buy to let 
mortgage. Our investigator said that while Ms S says she was unable to move to another 
lender due to being in negative equity, this didnt mean UCB should have reduced her 
interest rate.
Ms S didnt agree. She said there were no products available to her after her product ended. 
She said UCB had left the lending market and didnt offer new products at all to existing 
customers. She said even if it had, these products wouldnt have been available to her due 
to her being in negative equity and she didnt need to contact UCB to know this.
Ms S said UCB knew it could charge what it liked as she was unable to move away.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms S took out her buy to let mortgage she chose a two year fixed interest rate 
product. The mortgage offer said when this ended UCBs IFVR would apply. 
Ms Ss fixed interest rate product ended in 2010. UCB wrote to Ms S before the product 
ended. It said she could consider taking out a new product. And if she didnt, it would apply 
its variable rate. The letter set out the new rate that would apply, and the monthly payments.
Ms S didnt take out a new product and UCB applied its IFVR to her mortgage account. The 
IFVR didnt change until 2018. At that time, UCB wrote to Ms S setting out the new rate and 
her new monthly payments. UCB also sent annual statements which said the IFVR applied 
and set out the interest rate.
I think UCB was entitled to apply its IFVR from 2010. This was consistent with the mortgage 
offer and the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Ms S hasnt said she didnt know her mortgage was on the IFVR, or that this wasnt in line 
with the terms and conditions. Ms S says she didnt apply for a new product because she 
didnt think any products were available to her. 
Ms S says she didnt think UCB was offering new products, as it wasnt offering new lending. 
Even if it did offer new products, she didnt think shed meet its loan to value criteria due to 
her property being in negative equity. 
While UCB stopped offering new lending in 2008, it continued to offer new products to 
existing customers. UCBs letter to Ms S when her product ended in 2010 said she could 
contact it about a new product. UCB currently offers products with no maximum loan to value 
criteria. I dont know what products were available in 2010, or if Ms S would have met UCBs 
criteria for them. But I dont think its fair to say that it didnt offer new products to its existing 
customers.
I should also say that while most customers expect to take out a new product when their old 
one ends, there isnt  and never has been  a contractual or regulatory requirement for 
lenders to offer new products to customers when their old ones expire. 
Ms S says UCBs IFVR is high compared to current interest rates. I agree that its higher 
than the Bank of England base rate, and higher than many fixed and tracker rates offered by 
other lenders, and by UCB itself. 
UCB makes a commercial decision about the level of the interest rates it offers, and like 
other lenders it takes a range of considerations into account when doing so. I must of course 
take into account that this is a buy to let mortgage, and Id expect the rate to be higher than 
for a residential mortgage. I dont think I can fairly say that UCBs rates are too high and that 
it should charge less. The level of the particular rates it offers is a matter for its legitimate 
commercial judgement. 
From what Ms S has said the value of her property fell significantly and this would have put 
her in a difficult position. I can understand that Ms S thought it unlikely shed be able to move 
to another lender if her property was in negative equity and she needed to borrow the same 
amount. But this was because circumstances  the fall in the property value  had changed 
since the mortgage was taken out. It wasnt because of anything UCB had done. 
Ms S says she hasnt asked for a new product more recently because she expects to be 
able to repay the mortgage in the near future. 
Taking all that into consideration, I dont think the interest rates UCB charged Ms S are 
unfair. While Ms S decided not to contact UCB because she thought no new products would 
be available to her, I dont think UCB can be held responsible for that. I do appreciate that 
Ms S will be disappointed. But I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
require UCB to apply a lower interest rate to Ms Ss account or to refund any of the interest 
shes paid.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman