DRN-1499726
The complaint
Mr C complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited paid a direct debit to a third party. 
Mr C says the mandate for the payment had been cancelled before payment was made  so 
the payment should be refunded.
What happened
Mr C has an account administered by Wirecard. In March 2018 a direct debit payment for 
£325.76 was made from his account to a third-party merchant. 
Mr C contacted Wirecard and said that the payment should not have been made as the 
direct debit had been cancelled. So, he asked that Wirecard refund the payment under the 
direct debit guarantee scheme.
Wirecard asked for some additional information to evidence that the instruction had been 
cancelled. Mr C responded, but Wirecard didnt feel the information it had been provided 
showed that the payment had been made in error. So, it declined to provide a refund.
Mr C asked our service to investigate the complaint.
An investigator looked into matters but said he didnt think Wirecard had acted 
unreasonably. 
Mr C did not agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said 
he had provided sufficient evidence that the direct debit was cancelled with the merchant in 
advance of the payment being made by Wirecard. So, he still thinks Wirecard needs to 
provide a refund  and that it is acting illegally by not doing so. As Mr C did not agree with 
the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has asked Wirecard to refund the disputed payment under the direct debit guarantee. 
The terms and conditions of his account with Wirecard confirm the guarantee is applicable to 
his account. I would point out though that the guarantee is not a law  it is a set of guidelines 
adopted by businesses that process direct debits.
 
 
 
The direct debit guarantee explains that if an error is made in the payment of a direct debit, 
by either the account provider or the merchant that requests payment, then account holders 
are entitled to a refund. It goes on to say that if a refund is given but it turns out the account holder wasnt entitled to it, they must pay back the amount refunded. And it explains that the 
guarantee is not a mechanism to resolve disputes between a customer and a merchant  so 
it isnt intended to be used in the event a payment is due to a merchant, but a customer 
chooses not to pay, due to a dispute.
With the above in mind, I think it was reasonable that Wirecard wanted to establish that there 
was an error with this payment before refunding it.
Mr C says there was an error, on the basis that the direct debit mandate was cancelled in 
advance. Wirecard says it doesnt think there is enough evidence to show an error was 
made.
Wirecard has said that its records show Mr C cancelled the direct debit online on its systems 
a few hours before it made payment. And it says that was the first cancellation notification it 
received. The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account explain that, unless direct debits are 
cancelled before a certain time on the day before payment is due, it cannot accept 
responsibility and hed need to contact the merchant. Based on what Ive seen it doesnt look 
like Wirecard itself was asked to cancel the payment far enough in advance. So, it doesnt 
look like it made an error based on the information it had.
As a result, before providing a refund, Wirecard wanted to establish if there was an error by 
the merchant when it asked for the payment. Again, I dont think this is unreasonable.
Wirecard has provided a copy of the correspondence between it and Mr C about the 
transaction  which began the day that the payment was made. I can see that Mr C initially 
told Wirecard hed cancelled the payment online. He said hed done this the week before the 
payment was made. He then also confirmed hed cancelled it with the merchant. Later in the 
correspondence, on the same day, Mr C said that the direct debit had in fact been set up by 
someone else without him knowing and that he didnt have an account with the merchant. 
When Wirecard raised that this was inconsistent with what hed said earlier Mr C again said 
the direct debit had been cancelled so he should be refunded.
I can understand why Wirecard asked for more information. What Mr C said about why there 
had been an error appeared to be inconsistent. So, I dont think Wirecard did anything wrong 
by asking for some evidence of the error.
Ive seen copies of the information Mr C provided to Wirecard  text from emails hes said 
the merchant sent him. Both documents mention a direct debit being cancelled. The first 
contains no dates. The second does list a cancellation date. But the documents themselves 
are undated and dont contain the header usually found in an email. There are no account 
numbers listed or other identifying information to show that they refer to the payment in 
dispute. There is also no confirmation in either of a cancellation of services  so nothing 
saying that a further payment wasnt in fact due to the merchant. I can see Wirecard asked 
for the original emails, but Mr C declined to provide these. As a result, it felt there wasnt 
enough evidence that the payment was made in error so declined to provide a refund.
Having reviewed the information, I dont think it confirmed that the merchant had made an 
error in claiming the payment or that the funds were not due to it. So, I dont think Wirecard 
acted unreasonably by declining to refund the transaction.
 
Mr C has provided us with text from a further email from the merchant  but again declined 
to provide the email itself. While this evidence lists the account that the payment was debited 
from when talking about cancellation, it again doesnt indicate that services themselves were cancelled or that a payment wasnt due. So, this new information doesnt lead me to 
conclude that Wirecard made a mistake when it initially declined his request for a refund. 
And as I dont think Wirecard has done anything wrong, it follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman