DRN-3757555
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  didnt tell her it was 
removing  the cash back reward on her credit card account. She would Nationwide to give 
her the cash reward she would have.
What happened
Mrs S says she realised in January 2022 that she was no longer getting cash back on her 
Nationwide credit card and hadnt done so from the end of 2020. She says that based on her 
spend in 2021 she would have received approximately £80 cash back. She says Nationwide 
told her it  advised her of this change, but she didnt get any such notification.
Nationwide said it told Mrs S of the withdrawal of the cash back reward  in October 2020 . 
Its said this information was also  contained within her statement that month. It therefore 
correctly stopped paying the cash back.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded:-
Nationwide emailed customers  a summary of changes document in October 2020 
telling the of its decision to withdraw the cash back  reward. And this information was 
also contained in its  monthly  email advising the monthly statement was ready and 
giving a link to the statement.
Nationwide gave us a copy of the  summary of changes  document that it would have 
sent to Mrs S  detailing the cash back changes in October 2020. Unfortunately,  due 
to the time that had passed, it couldnt  evidence it sent this to Mrs S. It would have 
been helpful if it had been able to do so.  Although Nationwide was confident all 
customers with relevant accounts would have received this information it was  
possible , as IT issues do arise, that Mrs S didnt. 
The  changes were also detailed in the email Nationwide sent out in October 2020. I 
saw  a copy of this email. It was the regular monthly email which included  a link to 
the statement for the account. This flagged up right at the beginning of the email 
Changes to your Nationwide Select Card then went onto to detail those before 
giving the link to the monthly statement.
Mrs S operates her account online, but Nationwide had no record of her contacting it  
to say she hadnt received her  October statement. Mrs S  told us she had no need to 
read , what she describes as routine emails advising her the statement is ready.  I 
felt she should check correspondence from Nationwide as it was clear Nationwide 
used the  monthly emails to advise  customers both that  their statements were ready 
but also of any changes to accounts.
Mrs S sent us  two copy monthly statement  emails she had received.  One gave a 
direct link to her monthly statement but the other one dated 12 March 2020 flagged 
up a Summary of changes to our terms and conditions then went  on to say what 
these changes were  in this example the changes related to purchase and cash 
withdrawals in Europe. So, I think Mrs S would have known  from this statement that 
the monthly email was used by Nationwide to flag up changes.
It was unlikely Nationwide failed to send both the changes document and the October 
statement in 2020. From the information Mrs S sent us she was aware Nationwide 
used the monthly statement email to advise of changes to the account. So, if she 
didnt get the October 2020 monthly statement email  she could have contacted 
Nationwide, but I have no evidence that she did.
It was more likely Mrs S got the statement  email but as she has told us she didnt 
read these she didnt open and read it . But I am persuaded that Nationwide sent 
this, so I thought the information was there for Mrs S to know of the change to the 
cash back reward. On this basis I didnt  think it was  reasonable to ask Nationwide to 
give Mrs S the cash back she expected to get or to compensate her for any distress 
and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Nationwide and Mrs S responded to my provisional decision.
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision and made no further comments for me to 
consider.
Mrs S made a number of points which I have carefully considered.
She says her issue isnt that Nationwide didnt tell her of the changes but that it didnt notify 
her in a way she couldnt fail to be aware of . I am afraid I dont agree with this. Even if Mrs S 
didnt get the summary of changes document I am still persuaded the information would 
have been included in her monthly statement . Mrs S evidenced herself that such changes 
are included in these monthly statements.
Mrs S has told us that she probably did get the email advising her  statement was available 
to read online but that she chooses to access her statements on her phone which doesnt 
give her the same access. She has given us an excerpt from the relevant statement which 
does flag up changes are being made to her account. I appreciate the typescript as Mrs S 
sent it to us is small but if she struggles to read it she could ask Nationwide for more 
accessible messages in future if she only has online access by phone.
As Mrs S only sent us an excerpt from that communication I cant judge what other 
information  was in it. However, I have seen the monthly email flagging up her statement 
was ready as  Nationwide provided it. This did  include a summary of the changes, so I am 
still of the view that information was available to Mrs S.
Mrs S has repeated that she doesnt read the monthly alert email Nationwide sends but she 
must know that Nationwide uses that method to alert customers to changes since she 
provided one such email detailing changes to us. Its Mrs Ss choice if she chooses to look at 
these emails or not but if she doesnt she risks missing out on key information as she did 
with the changes to the benefits linked to her card.
Finally, I have noted Mrs Ss concern is less with compensation and more that she doesnt 
feel  Nationwides communications are as clear as they should be . Its not for us to tell 
businesses what systems or processes to use. But from what I have seen I am persuaded 
there was sufficient information provided to make Mrs S aware of the changes to her credit card benefits.  So, on that basis I cant reasonably ask Nationwide to pay Mrs S the 
cashback reward she expected to get.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman