DRN-2864286
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the lack of assistance they got from Lloyds Bank PLC when 
they got into financial difficulties.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have a capital repayment mortgage with Lloyds. Mr G worked in an industry 
badly affected during the Covid pandemic. He was initially furloughed and later after this 
complaint began, made redundant. Mr and Mrs G applied for and got a six-month payment 
deferral in 2020. But, afterwards, Mr and Mrs G were unable to make the contractual 
monthly payments (CMP) and asked Lloyds to change the mortgage to retirement interest 
only (RIO) or interest only. Mr and Mrs Gs wanted to lessen the monthly payments without 
incurring a negative marker on their credit file. Lloyds said that due to its lending policy that it 
was unable to change the repayment method of the mortgage. But it suggested that Mr and 
Mrs G contact its customer financial assistance team to discuss possible reduced payment 
arrangements or any other options that may be available.  Furthermore, in late 2020 the 
mortgage product on one of Mr and Mrs Gs sub-accounts came to an end and Lloyds 
wouldnt agree a new mortgage product at that time. Mr and Mrs G also had some service 
issues and the bank apologised for those and paid Mr and Mrs G £50.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part but didnt believe 
that Lloyds had acted wrongly in refusing the change of mortgage type that Mr and Mrs G 
wanted.  She felt that Lloyds was wrong to refuse Mr and Mrs G access to a new mortgage 
product which put them in a worse financial position. Our investigator recommended that 
once they selected a rate that Lloyds should re-work Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage as though 
the promotional fixed rate they were eligible for, was applied to their mortgage when their 
fixed rate ended in October 2020; and, Lloyds should refund the difference in payments to 
Mr and Mrs G, along with 8% simple interest from the date of each monthly payment to the 
date of each refund; it should also pay £250 trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed saying in summary that a RIO seemed an appropriate solution to 
their particular situation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G as a result of Covid have found themselves with a lower income and 
consequently difficulties making the mortgage repayments that fell due. Lloyds offered them 
support by way of the payment deferral scheme. Mr and Mrs G continued to have difficulties 
after the period when they were on this scheme ended, Lloyds has suggested that it would 
consider further support, but its not the support that Mr and Mrs G want.
Lloyds offered to look at Mr and Mrs G making reduced payments as part of its tailored 
support in the post payment deferral period. What it has been unwilling to do is to make a 
long-term switch of the mortgage to another mortgage type whilst Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
future remains uncertain.
Mr and Mrs G believe that its in their best interests to be switched to another mortgage type 
and refer to a RIO mortgage as their preferred option. My understanding of a RIO is that its 
a niche product meant mainly to assist borrowers coming to the end of an interest only 
mortgage who have no repayment vehicle and giving them this option. Lloyds says that Mr 
and Mrs G wouldnt qualify for a RIO under its lending criteria. That appears to be correct 
from the documentation that Lloyds have disclosed to us but requested confidentiality for, 
which I should respect. I cant fairly require Lloyds to switch Mr and Mrs G to mortgage types 
that they dont qualify for.
I also note that the FCA has advised lenders, in the post payment deferral period, to have 
care about offering long term solutions to borrowers where their future circumstances are 
unclear which appears to be the case here. Instead, Lloyds has offered to look at reduced 
payments which seems to be appropriate to the circumstances. I note that Mr and Mrs G 
would have liked an interest only long term or short-term arrangement. The difficulty with 
offering long term interest only mortgages is that lenders under regulations should look for 
repayment vehicles other than the actual sale of the property. In Mr and Mrs Gs case they 
approached Lloyds because of being in financial difficulties and they dont have a separate 
repayment vehicle. So, I can understand why Lloyds was unable to facilitate them. 
I can see that our investigator was critical of Lloyds not giving more consideration to this 
possibility and I understand that position. But the lack of a repayment vehicle would always 
have been an obstacle to getting this type of mortgage in any case.  Lloyds says that it 
doesnt offer short term interest only concessions because at the end of the concession 
period the arrears are capitalised and the payments going forward may be unaffordable, if 
the source of the future income is unclear.
But a short erm interest only mortgage is also a type of a reduced payment arrangement. 
Like a reduced payment arrangement, the CMPs arent being made which Lloyds will report 
to the credit reference agencies as an arrangement. I dont see a short-term interest only 
mortgage as having substantial credit file advantages over a reduced payment arrangement. 
I consider that Lloyds offer to look at a reduced payment option was a fair one at the time 
given the uncertainty that surrounded Mr and Mrs Gs future income, rather than offering 
long term solutions when the future was uncertain. As such I understand why Lloyds was 
reluctant to offer these including a part interest only/ part repayment mortgage which given 
Mr and Mrs Gs financial circumstances would have been unaffordable and likely put them in 
a worse financial situation.
So, I dont agree that Lloyds dealt unfairly with Mr and Mrs G in the way it handled their 
financial difficulties following the payment deferral period. I note from their recent 
correspondence that Mr and Mrs G may have more recent issues with Lloyds including an 
issue about porting the mortgage product. But if Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how Lloyds 
has dealt with them subsequent to the issues which gave rise to this complaint, they should 
in the first instance raise them as a complaint with Lloyds.
Our investigators view was that Lloyds should have offered Mr and Mrs G a fixed rate 
interest on one of their accounts after the end of their previous mortgage product. Lloyds has 
accepted that, and the compensation suggested by our investigator seems appropriate. But 
the mortgage product will have an early repayment charge and Lloyds has indicated that 
because of Mr and Mrs G circumstances they are not recommending the mortgage product 
which has an early repayment charge. Mr and Mrs G will have to accept it on an execution only basis and I suspect that might be behind the problems they encountered when trying to 
switch to it.  I note that Mr and Mrs G are considering selling their house and they should 
consider carefully whether they want to take out the mortgage product in those 
circumstances. 
Finally, I am sorry to hear of Mr and Mrs Gs change in circumstances because of the 
pandemic that meant they couldnt pay their mortgage.  But I dont consider that Lloyds has 
done anything wrong in refusing long term solutions whilst their financial situation was 
uncertain or in refusing them access to mortgage products that they didnt qualify for. I would 
hope that Lloyds would continue to offer support to Mr and Mrs G in their financial difficulties.  
But I believe that because of Lloyds failure to offer the mortgage product that Mr and Mrs G 
wanted this complaint should be upheld and Lloyds should pay compensation of £250.  
Putting things right
If Mr and Mrs G proceed with their application for a new fixed rate mortgage product, Lloyds 
Bank PLC should re-work Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage as though the promotional fixed rate
they were eligible for, was applied to their mortgage when their fixed rate ended in
October 2020; Lloyds should refund the difference in payments to Mr and Mrs G, along with 
8% simple interest from the date of each monthly payment to the date of each refund.
Lloyds should also pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs G. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank Plc to pay the compensation referred 
to above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman