DRN-4182161
The complaint
Mr A complains Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) blocked his account in 2019 and 
withheld his funds. Mr A says this has caused him severe distress and inconvenience.   
What happened
Mr A opened an Epayments account in early 2018. In late 2019, Mr A travelled to a foreign 
country. Mr A says Epayments blocked his account in January 2019, and because of this he 
couldnt travel to his fathers funeral in his home country. 
On 24 February 2019, Epayments sent Mr A an email in which it said it had blocked his 
account as it does not provide its services to residents and citizens of the country he had 
travelled to. Mr A responded that he wasnt a resident nor citizen of that country, but that he 
had ordered a new card to his current address in that country.  
Epayments say it then sent Mr A an email to upload a photo with him holding his passport in 
his hands before it could unblock his account and reissue a new card. Mr A says he never 
got this email. The funds remained on hold. 
On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed 
limitations on Epayments. As a result Epayments was not able to process any transactions 
until the limitations were lifted. 
The original restrictions were later lifted on 23 February 2022 and Epayments began the 
process of reviewing its customers accounts and refunding them. In September 2022, 
Epayments announced it was closing its business.
In March 2023, Epayments sent Mr A its final response to a complaint he had raised with it. 
In summary, Epayments explained what had happened with the FCA, Mr As account was 
blocked because of this, and that it was safeguarding his money. Epayments also explained 
it was looking forward to expediating the refund process for Mr A.  
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. In summary, one of our Investigators found:  
- In 2019, Epayments didnt offer services in the country Mr A was in. So it wasnt 
unreasonable for it to restrict Mr As account. At that point, Epayments told Mr A what 
he needed to do to unblock his account, but it appears Mr A didnt do anything about 
it
- Once the restrictions are removed, Epayments should refund Mr A his funds subject 
to any further checks required by the FCA being completed
- The reason Epayments accounts were restricted was due to weaknesses in 
Epayments financial crime controls, which were identified by the FCA. So 
Epayments is responsible for the impact to Mr A for not having access to his funds
- Epayments should pay Mr A 8% simple interest per annum on the funds from when 
they were blocked due to the FCA restrictions on 11 February 2020 until settlement.  
This is in line with industry standards for compensation and covers multiple uses of 
the money
- Pay Mr A £150 for the distress and inconvenience the blocks had on him
- If any currency conversion fees, or other fees/commissions were charged by 
Epayments or their banking partner during the refund process, these should also be 
refunded
- Epayments doesnt need to refund any costs Mr A says he incurred in trying to get 
access to his money by travelling to its offices in the UK. Epayments doesnt provide 
face-to-face services at its offices, and he was told he didnt need to travel to the UK
- Epayments had made an offer of £250 to resolve his complaint as full and final 
settlement 
Mr A didnt accept Epayments offer of £250 as full and final settlement of his complaint. He 
said he accepted in general terms what our Investigator said, but he didnt receive any 
request from Epayments in February 2019 to send a photo of himself holding his passport. 
So he believes Epayments should pay him 8% simple interest from when the first block was 
applied in 2019.
Our Investigator said he had seen evidence an email to this affect was sent to Mr A to send 
his picture to Epayments. Mr A asked to see this evidence, and once received he said he 
never received it and that its a fake. 
Epayments later made a new settlement offer of 1% of the balance. Mr A didnt accept it. 
Epayments didnt agree to what our Investigator said. Some of the key points it makes are: 
- Mr A had breached clause 10.1(f) of its terms and condition before the FCA restricted 
its activities in February 2020 
- Mr A had over a year to get his funds released before the FCAs actions against it
- As EMIs (Electronic Money Institution) do not pay interest on its accounts, Mr A 
would have had no reasonable expectation or right to any. Mr A should provide 
evidence of what he would have done with the money to show awarding interest in 
this way is fair
- By awarding 8% simple interest, Epayments ability to solvently wind-down will be 
adversely impacted
As Mr A says he should receive more compensation, and Epayments dont agree with what 
our Investigator said, this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr A and Epayments have 
said before reaching my decision. 
The 2019 block 
In 2019, Epayments did not permit residents or citizens of the country Mr A was in to hold 
one of its accounts. The evidence Ive seen shows Mr A was in that country and had asked 
Epayments to reissue him with a new card at an address there. 
Mr A says he was there on a tourist visa  and was neither a resident nor citizen.  
Epayments say its internal customer call notes show Mr A had called it to change his 
contact number and said, now I have moved to the XXXX, and I need to change my contact 
number. Please note Ive not named the country explicitly here to help maintain Mr As 
anonymity. 
Epayments also say it had told Mr A about its services not being available in some 
jurisdictions  which included the country Mr A was in. I note Mr As current address is in the 
country that was prohibited in 2019. 
Epayments has also sent me a screenshot of an email chain with Mr A. The first email in the 
chain, dated 24 February 2019, informs Mr A his account has been blocked in accordance 
with Epayments terms of service and its doesnt provide service to residents and citizens of 
the country Mr A was in. 
Mr A then responds to this email four days later and says he is neither a resident nor citizen 
of that country. He is there on a tourist visa and wants a new card at his current address. 
Later that day, I can see another email was sent by Epayments employee to Mr A. This 
email informed Mr A that he needed to send a picture of himself holding his passport for his 
account to be unblocked. 
Mr A says he never received this email, there was an error with this email address, and this 
email chain sent by Epayments is fake. Ive also been sent an email by Mr A which appears 
to show he was having issues accessing one of his email addresses. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive seen and been told; Im persuaded its most likely 
Epayments did send Mr A an email saying what he needed to do to unblock his funds to a 
valid address.  I say that because Mr A responded to an email from Epayments earlier that 
day which shows this email address was in use by him at that time he was given notice. If 
Mr A was having issues with accessing these emails later, thats not Epayments fault.
Im satisfied from the information Epayments have sent me that it needed to be sure Mr A 
wasnt a resident or citizen of the prohibited jurisdiction before unblocking his account. What 
I find difficult to understand is why, based on the information I have, Mr A didnt do much 
more to speak to Epayments about releasing his funds after his initial interaction with it. 
So given what Ive said above, Im satisfied Epayments didnt do anything wrong in 
restricting Mr As account up until 11 February 2020 when the FCA placed limitations on it. 
So as Mr A wasnt unfairly deprived of his funds for this period, Epayments dont need to pay him any compensation for deprivation of funds, or any distress and inconvenience. 
I am of course sorry for Mr As personal loss around this time. 
FCA restrictions
As a regulated business, Epayments has certain obligations which it must comply with. 
Epayments is subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments 
for reasons widely publicised and also detailed on its company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended its operations. 
Whilst the FCA requested Epayments to suspend its activities there was nothing it could 
have done in relation to returning Mr As funds during this period. Epayments say it shouldnt 
be held fully liable for any detriment to Mr A whilst the FCAs limitations were imposed.
After carefully considering this, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to find Epayments didnt do anything wrong. I say that because Epayments 
had to suspend its operations due to failures on its part. 
So I think Epayments should put things right by addressing the fact Mr A has been deprived 
of his funds through no fault of his own. Epayments may argue that Mr A still needed to have 
provided evidence to show he wasnt a resident or a citizen of the country he was in, but I 
think its most likely this wouldve been resolved but for the FCAs actions. 
Im not certain if Mr A has received his funds yet, but I have seen that Epayments were 
ready to do this in April 2023 subject to the required KYC checks being completed. As a 
regulated business, Epayments must comply with extensive legal and regulatory obligations. 
These generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from application to 
eventually the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer (KYC) checks 
and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
So any refund of funds would be subject to these checks. Its worth noting these checks 
include not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
I note Epayments dont agree with 8% simple interest being added because there isnt any 
way of knowing how Mr A would have used his funds should he have had access to them. I 
also note Epayments wants to see evidence of how he would have utilised these funds.
Epayments didnt act improperly from 2019 until February 2020 when restricting Mr As 
account. So it doesnt need to pay him any interest for being without them. But as Ive found, 
Epayments is at fault for the restrictions on the account from 11 February 2020 till the funds 
have or will be released.  
Awarding 8% simple interest when a consumer has wrongly been deprived of their funds is 
in line with the approach at this service. I also havent seen compelling enough reasons as to 
why Mr A shouldnt be awarded compensation in this way, so Im satisfied this is fair redress.
Mr A says this matter has caused him considerable stress and impact to his mental health 
requiring the intervention of a health professional. Im sorry to hear about this. But I note 
most of this appears to stem from the initial block in 2019 and Mr As inability to travel back 
to his home country for his fathers funeral. Ive already said that Epayments did nothing 
wrong by applying this first block  so Im persuaded this heavily mitigates against a higher 
compensation award for distress and inconvenience. Secondly, Ive only seen an email from December 2022 which shows Mr A asking 
Epayments for his funds since the initial interactions in 2019. Id have expected to have seen 
regular correspondence given the distress and inconvenience Mr A says this was causing 
him. Mr As message of this date doesnt allude to any previous communication either.   
So after weighing this up, Im persuaded its most likely Epayments restrictions from 
February 2020 didnt cause Mr A severe distress and inconvenience. I do accept however 
that he would have been troubled and upset by what was going on. So I think £150 is fair 
compensation for this. 
Mr A has said he should be compensated for his expenses when travelling to the UK to 
retrieve his money from Epayments offices.  But Epayments told Mr A in December 2022, 
when he enquired about his funds, that there is no need to travel to the UK. Nor did 
Epayments tell Mr A it has face-to-face services in its UK office. So Im satisfied it doesnt 
need to reimburse Mr A any costs of travel. 
If Epayments, or its partners, have charged Mr A any conversion or commission fees when 
releasing the funds, these should be refunded as I dont think its fair or reasonable for them 
to be applied.
Lastly, Im aware Epayments is going through a winding down process. To be clear, its not 
my intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of its business  thats not the role of 
our service. My role here is ultimately to decide a fair way to resolve individual complaints 
between businesses and their customers, based on the individual facts of the complaint
Putting things right
To put things right, Epayments must:
- Pay 8% simple interest on the funds it released to Mr A from 11 February 2020 up 
until settlement*
- Not apply any fees or charges for releasing funds to Mr A  as detailed above. If it or 
its banking partner has applied such charges, they should be refunded
- Pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused
* If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Epayments Systems Ltd must now put things 
right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman