DRN-4177921
The complaint
X is unhappy Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) blocked access to their account and the 
funds contained within it. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is known to both parties, so I wont go into detail. Instead, I 
have summarised below.
X had an Epayments account. On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) placed limitations on Epayments. This meant Epayments were unable to 
process any transactions until the limitations were lifted. Because of this, X couldnt access 
their money. The original restrictions were lifted in February 2022 and Epayments began the 
process of reviewing customers accounts and refunding customers. It has since refunded X 
the money in their account. 
Whilst this process was ongoing, X brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. He said Epayments were responsible for the limitations placed on 
them by the regulator and they should compensate X for the time they didnt have access to 
their funds. He awarded X 8% interest for the time they had been deprived of their funds, as 
well as £150 for the inconvenience of not having access to the account.
X agreed with this settlement. However, Epayments didnt. It made an alternative offer of 
£500 compensation which X disagreed with. Epayments then made another offer of 1% of 
the account balance and £150 compensation, which altogether totalled £250.75. X disagreed 
with this offer too. 
X explained that none of the compensation offered, including the view reached by our 
investigator, covered him for his losses. X explained that they could have got far more than 
8% in a savings account. However, they wouldnt have done this as they would have used 
the money as capital to fund their traffic arbitrage endeavours. X provided evidence to show 
they were doing this prior to their funds being blocked and was making a substantial amount 
of money as a result.  
Because no resolution could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a regulated business, Epayments have certain obligations which they must comply with.
They are subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments for
reasons widely publicised and also detailed on their company website. As a result,
Epayments suspended their operations. This had a significant impact on X as it meant they 
couldnt access thier account, or the money contained within it. 
Once Epayments agreed to suspend their operations to carry out the work required of them
by the FCA, there was nothing they could do to process any requests X may have made. It 
has now released Xs money, so I dont need to make a finding on this. 
However, Im satisfied Epayments should pay interest on the released funds. Epayments 
have suggested they shouldnt be held liable for the delays in being able to return Xs funds, 
as this was due to restrictions placed on them by the FCA. However, the reason why 
Epayments had to suspend their operations was due to failures on their part and it would be 
unfair for X to be impacted because of this. As a result, Epayments should be held liable for 
the delays in X not being able to access their funds. 
Our investigator recommended 8% interest should be paid and Im agreement with this. We 
direct a business to give this award to compensate a customer for being deprived of money. 
I appreciate X feels this award should be higher as they lost out on potential earnings 
through traffic arbitrage that far exceed 8%. However, X himself says they needed the 
money in the account for their childrens expenses  not just as capital for traffic arbitrage - 
so I have no way of knowing or confirming exactly how much they may or may not have 
used towards their traffic arbitrage endeavours or how much they may have earned as a 
result. With this in mind, I think the 8% covers any potential loss of use of the funds in the 
fairest way. It is also in line with the award a court gives on judgment debts.
I also agree that £150 compensation should be paid for the worry and upset caused to X 
during the period of time their account was blocked. I dont doubt it was stressful and 
inconvenient for X and this award is in no way meant to belittle what they went through. 
However, Im satisfied this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In some cases, Epayments or their banking partner may charge currency conversion fees
and commissions when refunding account balances. In Xs case, I dont think they should 
have to pay any currency conversion fees or commissions for accessing the funds in their 
account. If X has been charged any such fees or commissions, I require Epayments to 
refund these.
Putting things right
Epayments should do the following to put things right for X:
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the balance of Xs account, from the date of 
the block to the date the funds were made available to X. If Epayments considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell X how much its taken off. It should also give X a tax deduction 
certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Pay £150 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
Refund any currency conversion fees and commissions if charged. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Xs complaint against Epayments Systems Ltd and direct 
them to carry out the settlement detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Sarah BrimacombeOmbudsman