DRN-1643466
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Covea Insurance plc made unfair deductions from a total loss 
settlement it paid when Miss K made a claim under her car insurance policy. Miss Ks 
husband Mr A was a named driver under the policy and assisted Miss K when dealing with 
her complaint to Covea. He said Covea recorded two claims and deducted two excesses as 
well as a salvage fee as Miss K retained her car.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss K reported an incident to her insurer, Covea. She said her car had been 
damaged by an uninsured driver while he was being chased by police. 
Covea arranged for Miss Ks car to be taken to an approved repairer (AR). However due to 
the extent of the damage across several areas of the car, it said it would make further 
enquiries before agreeing all of the claimed repairs. Covea contacted the police for further 
information about the incident. In the meantime it arranged for Miss K to have a small 
hatchback courtesy car in line with the policy. 
In July 2019 while Covea was still investigating, Mr A visited the AR and alerted them to the 
fact that Miss Ks car had been vandalised on the ARs premises. 
Covea said it would deal with this damage under a second incident and as a vandalism 
claim. Due to the vandalism damage, it wasnt economical for Covea to repair Miss Ks car. 
So it settled Miss Ks claim as a total loss and paid her the market value of £12,910. 
Miss K complained to Covea. She was unhappy with the length of time it took to deal with 
her claim. She said the courtesy car was too small and shed been promised one big enough 
to put two child seats in the back. Miss K didnt think the valuation for her car was enough. 
And she was unhappy that she had to pay two excesses when neither incident was her fault. 
Covea apologised for providing a poor service at times while dealing with Miss Ks claim. It 
said it hadnt listened to the initial call (as it said it would) until several weeks later - to check 
what was agreed for a courtesy car. For the distress and inconvenience its poor service 
caused, it paid Miss K £150 compensation. 
But it said it had provided a basic courtesy car in line with the policy  and this was only 
available for the duration of repairs. As Miss Ks car wasnt economical to repair, it said it 
had paid a fair settlement in line with the motor trade guides. As Miss K decided to retain her 
car, Covea deducted a salvage fee. 
Covea didnt agree that the vandalism claim was an act of negligence by the AR. It said this 
was correctly recorded as a fault claim as it couldnt successfully recover its costs from a 
third party. 
In February 2020 the investigator thought Covea had acted reasonably. She thought it 
reasonable for Covea to investigate each claim. Covea had been waiting for information from 
the police to validate all of the damage being claimed for under the first incident. This was 
out of Coveas control. She didnt think there was any evidence to show the AR had acted 
without due care  and so she thought Covea had reached its decision to settle the second 
claim as a vandalism claim reasonably. And as an outside third party was responsible for the 
vandalism damage, Covea had no third party to recover the costs from. So she thought 
Covea had correctly recorded the second claim as a fault claim. 
Covea accepted it didnt listen to a call where Miss K said she was promised a bigger 
courtesy car. For this it paid compensation of £150 which the investigator thought was 
reasonable. And she found the valuation Covea gave for Miss Ks car was in line with the 
policy, and our approach in using the motor trade guides.
Miss K didnt agree. She said she holds the AR responsible for the losses she is facing. She 
said dealing with Covea has caused her distress and upset. She said due to the size of the 
courtesy car it was difficult for her to physically transport her two children. 
Covea has since confirmed that it settled the first incident under the uninsured driver section 
of Miss Ks policy. So it didnt charge Miss K an excess and her NCB wasnt affected by the 
first incident. 
It said Miss K was correctly charged an excess for the second incident. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer has properly investigated a claim and reached its decision reasonably and in line with 
the policy. For ease Ive set out the complaints under headings below. I think Covea 
correctly recorded both incidents. Ill explain why. 
First Claim  Uninsured Driver
I think it was reasonable for Covea to ask the police for clarification of the incident related 
damage being claimed for. And Covea also instructed an investigator to interview Miss K. By 
the time it received a reply from the police, Miss Ks car had been vandalised causing further 
damage. This led to Coveas decision that it wasnt economical to repair her car. 
I understand Miss K was disappointed with the courtesy car she received. But it was in 
keeping with the size of car her policy says she will be provided with during repair. For failing 
to follow up on the discussion between Miss K and Covea as to providing a bigger courtesy 
car, Covea paid Miss K £150 compensation. I think this was a fair sum to reflect the poor 
service she received. 
Second Claim  vandalism
While Covea was waiting for a reply from the police, Miss Ks car appeared to have been 
singled out on the premises where the AR stored multiple cars. Miss Ks car was vandalised 
with heavy scratch marks all over it. CCTV at the premises unfortunately didnt evidence the 
incident. 
Coveas policy has a very common term which is in all motor insurance policies Ive seen. It 
allows Covea to settle a claim as it sees fit. This means that Covea might make a decision Miss K disagrees with, but the policy allows Covea to do this. We dont think there is 
anything wrong with this term in principle, provided the insurer can show it treated its 
customer fairly when applying it.  
Unfortunately CCTV at the AR didnt record the incident. So I think its decision to record the 
claim as a vandalism claim was reasonable based on the information available to it. As the 
person responsible for the vandalism couldnt be identified, I think Coveas decision to record 
the claim as a fault claim was fair and in line with the policy. I dont think there was enough 
evidence for Covea to pursue a claim against the AR for failing to take due care, given the 
circumstances.
Valuation for Miss Ks car 
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Coveas policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of Miss Ks 
car. We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. Generally we think its fair for 
an insurer to look at the main motor trade guides. They provide valuations based on likely 
selling prices for the same make, model, age, condition and mileage as a car like Miss Ks. 
We find the guides more reliable than adverts. Adverts tend to vary widely and have a 
margin built in to negotiate the price. 
In this case, the final valuation Covea used was within the range of the main motor trade 
guides, using the retail transacted figure. This is the amount Miss K  or anyone  would 
most likely pay for a similar car at a retail garage. So I dont think Covea needs to pay any 
more.   
I understand Miss K will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I 
think Covea has dealt with both claims reasonably and in line with the policy. As Miss K has 
decided to keep her car, Covea can deduct the salvage fee it would have otherwise received 
from the salvage company, as it paid Miss K a total loss settlement for it. So I dont think 
Covea needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman