DRN-3947465
The complaint
Mr M complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) wont allow him to withdraw his 
funds from his peer-to-peer crowdfunding account. 
What happened
Mr M held an ISA and Everyday account with RateSetter, in which he lent money to third 
party individuals and/or businesses in return for interest.
On 12 September 2020, Mr M requested that RateSetter close his accounts and to release 
the remaining funds he had invested in his five-year loans. RateSetter explained that he 
couldnt withdraw his funds as he had outstanding loans with less than £10 to be repaid. 
Mr M complained to RateSetter as he said the only reason, he had loans for less than £10 
outstanding was because, at the time of investment, RateSetter partially allocated his funds 
to loans that were close in value to £10. He said he deliberately made investments much 
greater than £10 specifically to avoid this happening. He requested that RateSetter release 
his outstanding funds which amounted to around £40. 
RateSetter looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that, as per its terms, Mr 
M would need to first release his investments from all his loans and withdrawn any funds 
from his holding account before being able to close his accounts. RateSetter also said that 
its terms made it clear that he wouldnt be able to release loan contracts with a value of less 
than £10 and that hed have to wait for any such loans to be repaid fully at maturity. It also 
noted that Mr Ms reinvestment settings were set to have both capital and interest sent to his 
holding account as repayments are made and so he could withdraw these repayments into 
his nominated account thereafter.
Mr M didnt agree and so he referred his complaint to this service for an independent and 
impartial review. 
An investigator at this service considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think that RateSetter 
had treated Mr M unfairly. In summary, he said:
The terms made it clear that Mr M couldnt release loan contracts with a value of less 
than £10.
The terms explained that once an investor makes an offer, their funds will be 
matched to eligible borrowers and the order for fund matching goes first by the 
interest rate offered, and then by the time the offer was placed on the platform. 
The terms are clear offers may be split into several smaller loans, depending on the 
availability on the platform and could be matched to loans for a minimum value of 
£10. 
While he understood that Mr M deliberately made larger offers to avoid being placed 
in smaller loans, nothing in the terms suggests this would work in the way he 
intended.
This may also work to Mr Ms advantage, as by splitting the amounts across several 
loans, his risk would be diversified.
There were only three loans in each of Mr Ms accounts mentioned in his complaint, 
so he didnt think there was any evidence of a clear deliberate pattern of matching his 
funds to amounts close to £10.
But in any event, he noted that even larger loans would eventually go below £10, so 
there could always be a time period when Mr M would be unable to withdraw until the 
final £10 was repaid.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
The £10 minimum to sell loans is an arbitrary limit set by RateSetter and it should 
increase this to £50.
Had his loans been in RateSetters Access market, they would have been 
automatically repaid when they reached an amount below £10, but this was not the 
case for his five-year loans. 
The £10 limit should have been waived in the case of an account closure request and 
to not do so was unfair and treated him differently to those in the Access market.
He didnt agree that smaller loans may have worked to his advantage as RateSetter 
has always stated that all investors' money is diversified by virtue of mutualised risk. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms complaint appears to be two-fold  RateSetter shouldnt have invested his funds into 
the loans at a value close to £10 and that RateSetter should allow him to withdraw his funds 
despite being it being invested in loan contracts with £10 or less outstanding. 
Regarding the former, RateSetters terms explained how it would allocate Mr Ms invested 
funds into loans on the platform. These explained:
6. Investing: lending from your RateSetter account
[]
6.4. Within each product, offers to lend are matched with borrower loan applications 
in the following order: 
(a) by rate, with the lowest rate matching first; and if there are multiple offers 
at the same rate,
(b) by time when the offer to lend was placed on the platform, with the earliest 
offer matching first, subject to the rule that existing funds being reinvested are 
prioritised ahead of new funds. This means that if multiple lenders are 
reinvesting, they will be matched in order of when they placed their offer to 
lend on the platform.
[]
6.5. An offer to lend may be combined with other offers to lend and may be matched 
with one or a combination of multiple loan applications by RateSetter borrowers.
The terms also explained that the minimum offer amount would be £10. Having accepted these terms before investing on the platform, Mr M ought to have been aware how his funds 
would be invested on the platform, including that he could have amounts of £10 or higher 
invested into multiple loans. 
RateSetter has provided this service with information regarding Mr Ms outstanding loans 
and whilst I can confirm he had amounts just over £10 originally invested into these loans, in 
doing so, I think RateSetter acted in line with the terms Mr M agreed to when deciding to 
invest on the platform. 
I accept Mr Ms comments regarding smaller loan amounts not necessarily minimising his 
risk as Im aware that RateSetter operated a contingency fund called the Provision Fund 
which was used to automatically reimburse investors their outstanding capital and interest in 
the event this wasnt paid by a borrower. Which in effect mutualised risk for all investors by
diversifying their exposure across the entire loan portfolio. Notwithstanding this, I still think 
Mr M ought to have been aware that he could be invested into loans for amounts of as little 
as £10. 
Also, as the investigator explained, even if RateSetter had invested more of Mr Ms money 
into these loans, there would always be a possibility that the loans would have eventually 
been repaid to the extent that the outstanding balance was £10 or less. So I dont think 
RateSetter has treated Mr M unfairly.
In regard to Mr Ms comments on the withdrawal process, RateSetters terms explained how 
Mr M could withdraw him funds for the platform. These explained:
8. How can you take money out? 
[]
8.3. If your funds have already been matched to a loan contract, you can only 
withdraw them using the Release Investment function detailed below.
9. The Release Investment function 
9.1 Once your funds are matched and a loan contract is formed, you may be able to 
withdraw matched funds before they are repaid by the borrower by using the 
Release Investment function, but this will only be possible where there are sufficient 
funds available in the market.
9.2 Your loans will be sold on a last in, first out basis, i.e. starting with the most 
recent contract, regardless of rate. You cannot release loan contracts with a value of 
less than £10, and you cannot release any loan contracts on the same day that they 
have been matched or reinvested.
Having accepted these terms before investing on the platform, Mr M ought to have been 
aware that he would need to use the Release Investment function in order to withdraw his 
funds before the loan had been repaid by the borrower. Its also made clear that this wont 
be possible for loans where less than £10 is outstanding to be repaid by the borrower. So 
whilst I appreciate Mr M would like to withdraw sooner, Im satisfied RateSetter has acted in 
line with its terms by requiring him to wait until the borrowers have repaid his outstanding 
loans in full. 
I understand Mr M feels the £10 limit is an arbitrary limit set by RateSetter and he feels it 
would be fairer to increase this to a £50 limit instead. Ultimately, RateSetters choice to set 
this limit is a commercial decision which its entitled to make. This isnt something this service can change. Instead Ive looked at whether Mr M has been treated unfairly as a 
result of that decision. Having done so, Im not persuaded he has. Whilst I appreciate Mr M 
would prefer to release despite the restriction, Im conscious that he continues to receive 
interest as the borrowers repay his outstanding loans.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman