DRN-3025257
The complaint
Mrs I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to monitor her 
overdraft which subsequently became unsustainable. 
 
What happened
Mrs I complained to NatWest that it failed to monitor her overdraft and approved increases in 
the limit four times which were unsustainable for her. Mrs I is unhappy with the charges 
applied to her overdraft. One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Is concerns and reached 
the conclusion NatWest hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs I unfairly and so didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs I disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Is complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Mrs I has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at NatWest various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs I if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs Is account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs I was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mrs I fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Mrs I unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mrs Is statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
NatWest ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to 
it being notified of this. I accept that Mrs I was using her overdraft regularly. But while Mrs I 
has referred to being unable to pay her bills its clear that this account wasnt being used for 
her day-to-day financial affairs.
I say this because besides mobile bills and media payments I cant see any other direct 
debits or bill payments going from this account. It looks like the vast majority of transactions 
were debit card purchases and transfers to what I understand to be relatives of Mrs I. And 
while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs Is expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions going from the account. 
Furthermore, there were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and 
Mrs I was able to bring the overdraft down significantly before once again going on to use 
her overdraft to make debit card transactions and further money transfers. I accept this 
doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs I wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt 
anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted NatWest to any 
potential financial difficulty.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Is account was being 
used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest ought to have realised 
that Mrs I might have been in financial difficulty and I dont think NatWest treated Mrs I 
unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that 
this will be very disappointing for Mrs I  especially as shes been waiting some time for this 
answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Is complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman