DRN-2056254
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside his credit card accounts.
What happened
In 1997 Mr M applied for a credit card account and at the same time, he took out a PPI 
policy to protect his repayments. A successful claim on the policy could have made 
repayments to the outstanding balances for periods of up to 12 months if Mr M lost him job 
or if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness.
Mr M complained to BOS that the policy was mis-sold but it didnt agree that was the case. 
BOS also considered if any excess commissions and profit share, which was part of the 
premiums, should be refunded but said no refund for excess commission was due in the 
circumstances of this account.
As BOS refused to uphold him complaint Mr M brought him concerns to this service. Mr M is 
represented by a third party.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at him complaint.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M has complained he was mis-sold the PPI as he says he never knew it was optional as 
the box on the application form was pre-ticked and so he didnt know he was buying the PPI 
policy. He also says it wasnt good value and he didnt need it.
Mr M applied for his credit card account by post in June 1997. BOS has been able to provide 
a copy of the application form that Mr M completed.
Mr M has told us he had six months full sick pay from his work, where he had been 
employed for one year, and he had no savings. I note on the application form for the credit 
card account Mr M says he had been in his employment two years. As the application was a 
record completed at the time, I think it most likely this is more accurate, and that Mr M had 
been in his work for around two years.
Mr M completed this application form himself by hand. There is a section on the application 
form which requires Mr M to indicate some choices about his application. He could choose 
more than one credit card, different types of credit card and also choose whether to take out 
what is called on the form credit care insurance cover  which is the PPI.
Mr M clearly ticked the box to indicate he wanted this insurance cover applying to him 
account. He also selected two of the other boxes in the section to choose the number of 
cards he wanted and to take out card care to protect his account if his cards were lost or 
stolen.  
I think the way the application form was set out did indicate to Mr M he had a choice whether 
or not to take out the PPI. He clearly read all the boxes as he selected three of the five that 
could be ticked. If he didnt understand what the insurance was at the time, then I dont think 
he would have ticked the box to take it out. This took place over 20 years ago and memories 
can fade so Mr M may not fully recall what he actually read at the time.
So, I think Mr M knew he had a choice and he chose to take out the insurance cover which 
was indicated as providing help with him repayments if necessary. At the time he met all the 
eligibility criteria, such as age and being in employment, so there was no issue with him 
having the policy on that basis.
I would also add that the charge for the PPI would have appeared on Mr Ms statement each 
month. So, if he had any issues about what this was for he could have questioned that and 
cancelled the policy at any time.
I accept full information about the costs, benefits and the terms and conditions may not have 
been clear when Mr M agreed to take out the PPI. So, I need to consider if I think he would 
still have chosen to take out the PPI at the time if he had known all the details.
The cost of the cover was 69p for every £100 of the balance on the account. The benefits 
included repayment of 10% of the outstanding balance each month for up to 12 months in 
any one claim. So the cost was reasonable when taking account of the benefits that could be 
paid for a successful claim. And I have seen nothing to indicate the policy wasnt affordable. 
As I have already said the premium appeared on the monthly statements so Mr M could 
have cancelled the policy at any time if unhappy with the cost. 
At the time of completing the application form Mr M may not have been made fully aware of 
all of the restrictions that applied to the PPI. But Ive not seen anything to suggest he would 
have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So it is highly 
unlikely that more information about these would have affected his decision to take out the 
PPI as they did not affect him in his circumstances.
I note Mr M had good employment benefits. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any work benefits he would have received, so allowing the income from him work benefits to 
pay for other household expenses. And his work benefits would only have paid full pay for up 
to six months, the policy provided cover for payment of account for up to 12 months
Mr M says he had no savings, and he has not indicated he had any other means to assist 
him, other than his sick pay if he wasnt working. As he had only been in his job around two 
years, he may have qualified for some redundancy pay, but this would have been minimal. 
So I think the policy would have provided a useful benefit to Mr M if he had needed to claim.
I have noted the comments made by Mr M about the fact that full and clear information may 
not have been provided, and so the PPI must have been mis-sold. But as I have already 
said, I cannot see that disclosure of full information about the restrictions and exclusions, 
would not have affected Mr Ms decision to take out the PPI when he wasnt affected by this 
information.Also, whilst the cost of the policy may not have been made fully clear, in that the premium 
would be calculated monthly and added to the account balance, thus causing interest on it, I 
have seen nothing to show the cost wasnt affordable at the time. And as I have stated 
above, the cost was shown each month on his statements so if he was unhappy with the 
cost, he could have cancelled the policy
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I think at the time Mr M chose to take out the 
insurance and it would have provided a useful benefit if he had needed to claim. It follows 
that I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Im not upholding this complaint.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by BOS. However, the rules and guidance put in place 
by the Financial Conduct Authority relating to this only affect credit taken out after 6 April 
2007 or if taken out before this date, then still running on 6 April 2008. Mr Ms credit card is 
not caught by these dates therefore these rules do not apply, and no excess commission or 
profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold by the Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman