DRN-2274698
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs P says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
In 2003 Mrs P took out PPI to protect the monthly repayments on a store card.
The policy covered Mrs P if she was too ill to work or had an accident or if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint because I dont think she wouldve bought the 
policy if she had been given clearer information about its cost and benefits.
AXA needed to make sure it gave Mrs P clear enough information about the policy so she 
could decide for herself if she should take it out. 
The PPI cost £1.50 per £100 of the outstanding balance  and Mrs P may have been told 
this. But I dont think its very likely that the policys true cost and benefits were explained 
clearly enough to allow Mrs P to work out whether PPI offered her any useful benefit it was 
worthwhile for her to buy. For example, I dont know if AXA explained to Mrs P how interest 
might be added on or if shed have to continue to pay the premiums during a claim.
Mrs P told us she had other means she couldve relied on if she wasnt able to work. In 
particular, Mrs P told us that her employer wouldve paid her full sick pay for 6 months then 
half pay for the next 6 months. She also mentioned having some savings put aside.
Ive taken into account that AXA said there was no evidence that Mrs P wouldve had such 
generous sick pay as shed been in her job less than two years - so as it couldnt ascertain 
the plausibility of her benefits it couldnt be sure if the policy was unsuitable. 
But I think it is entirely plausible that her employer wouldve paid the amount of sick pay 
Mrs P said, and for as long as Mrs P told us, if she was off work sick. 
Ive disregarded any savings Mrs P had as she hasnt been able to provide any further 
details about these. 
But even so, this still means that the policy offered her only limited value given her sick pay 
entitlement through work. 
On balance, based on all the information Ive seen, I dont think Mrs P wouldve bought the 
policy if AXA had given her clear enough information about the cost and benefits to be able 
to decide if it was good value for her. 
So, I think Mrs P has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs P would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs P owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs P would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs P would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs P 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs P 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs P that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman