DRN-3849102
The complaint
Mr H complains that Collingwood Insurance Services (U.K.) Limited (Collingwood) charged 
him a cancellation fee when he cancelled his insurance policy eight months into the contract.
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy specifically for learner drivers with Collingwood. 
Once hed passed his driving test, he cancelled the cover after having had the policy for 
around eight months. Hes unhappy that Collingwood have charged him a cancellation fee 
and not refunded the premium for the months he didnt need the cover. Mr H says that the 
terms of the policy arent fair  and that this information isnt clear at the point of sale. 
Collingwood responded to say that it had fairly charged a cancellation fee, it said the fee was 
visible in documents available both prior to the sale of the policy and after. It also said the 
terms and condition of the policy show how much premium would be refunded, depending 
on how long the insured was on cover for. It said that for eight months cover, 90% of the 
premium would be payable  so Mr H would get a 10% refund of the premium.
To put things right, Mr H would like a refund of the cancellation charge and a refund of the 
additional premium he had to pay for the time he wasnt on cover. 
The Investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They explained that 
Collingwood had fairly applied the terms and conditions of the policy when charging the 
cancellation fee and providing a 10% refund of premiums. So, they didnt think Collingwood 
needed to do anything more for Mr H. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to look into his complaint. He also provided 
screenshots of reviews from other customers about Collingwood, which he feels shows that 
it doesnt treat its customers fairly.
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide on the matter.
The Investigator has since been in touch with Mr H to let him know that this decision will only 
be looking at Mr Hs complaint about the cancellation charge (and not the premium). This is 
because Collingwood Insurance Services (U.K.) Limited are the intermediary of the policy 
and are only responsible for the cancellation charge. Any complaint about a refund of the 
premiums will need to be looked at against the underwriter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, it is my decision not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate 
this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H  its clear how strongly he feels about 
his complaint. However, Ill explain my reasons for coming to this decision below. 
I think both parties accept that Collingwoods terms of business state that a £40 cancellation 
fee would be charged if the policy was cancelled within the term. But Mr Hs complaint is that 
this cancellation fee, whether in the terms or not, isnt fair. 
I can understand, from Mr Hs point of view, why he feels the charge isnt fair  he couldnt 
continue with the policy even if he wanted to, because hes now passed his driving test and 
subsequently no longer able to continue with the cover. 
It is commonplace for intermediaries to charge a fee where a policy is cancelled before the 
end of the term. This is to cover the costs incurred as a result of cancelling a policy. So, I 
dont find a cancellation charge to be inherently unfair as long as the firm has made this fee 
clear, which I think Collingwood have.
Collingwoods terms of business were available for Mr H to read; he could have decided not 
to take out the cover if he wasnt happy with those terms. The very nature of the cover he 
bought meant that it was likely he wouldnt need it for the full term, so if the cancellation 
charge was important to him, then it's reasonable to think he'd have checked this before 
agreeing to take the cover. In any event, in my experience, I think Mr H would have found it 
very difficult to find another policy that didnt apply a fee for a mid-term cancellation.
I appreciate Mr H has found a number from reviews from other customers who feel the same 
way he does about the cancellation fee. But this doesnt mean that Collingwood have done 
anything wrong in applying it in this case. Or that Mr H has been treated unfairly.
Ive not commented on the refund of premium in this decision, because premium refunds are 
determined by the insurer, and this decision is about the intermediary who is a separate firm. 
Collingwood (the intermediary) are only responsible for the £40 cancellation charge. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman