DRN-3184494
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) have rejected her claim for flood 
damage to her home on her buildings insurance policy and refused to pay professional costs 
she has incurred. She wants her claim to be settled.
What happened
Mrs B says her home was flooded after excavation works were carried out by a housing 
developer on land near her home several years ago. She says internal works had been 
undertaken to deal with damp in her 200-year-old property and it was now dry. But following 
more digging by the developer next to her home in November 2020, water and mud again 
entered after days of heavy rain. 
Mrs B contacted Ageas but said she didnt want to make a claim at this point. She says she 
used dehumidifiers to help dry the property out. In January 2021 Mrs B instructed a 
Chartered Surveyor over issues she was having with the building developer. The Surveyor 
inspected the developers work and her property, describing the digging as a deep 
excavation, exposing the footings.
After some discussions with the developer, Mrs B decided to make a claim for damage with 
Ageas in March 2021, sending it a letter from her Surveyor. This said the internal walls were 
very damp. It also noted issues with the pointing on the exterior wall now exposed by the 
digging. Ageas sent a loss adjuster to inspect the property. It said there wasnt a claim under 
the policy as no insured event had occurred. It said that moisture levels in the property were 
as expected, as it didnt have a damp proof course. So, Ageas rejected Mrs Bs claim. 
Mrs B asked Ageas if it would cover the Surveyors fees. Ageas said it wouldnt as whilst the 
policy did provide for professional costs. This was only if they related to an event covered by 
the policy, and there wasnt one. Mrs B complained to Ageas. It said the damage wasnt 
covered by the policy and consequently neither were Mrs Bs professional costs. Mrs B 
referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it, but she didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator said Ageas was entitled to rely on the report of its expert, the loss adjuster, 
which said there was no damage associated with an insured event. She said there wasnt 
any other expert evidence challenging these findings. She said the policy provided cover for 
unexpected events rather than repairs and maintenance of the property. Our investigator 
said that as the damage wasnt covered by the policy Ageas hadnt been unreasonable in 
also not paying Mrs Bs professional costs. 
Mrs B provided some further details about what had happened and said that her insurance 
policy clearly states professional fees would be covered. She also said Ageas hadnt come 
to inspect the property in November 2020. As Mrs B doesnt agree it has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I sympathise with Mrs Bs situation and dont doubt that it has been very stressful, 
inconvenient and costly. However, I dont think the problems she has encountered are 
covered by her policy with Ageas. Mrs B has a separate complaint about legal expenses 
cover with another insurer with our service, however Im not considering that complaint in 
this decision.  
Our service cant comment on the issues with the building developer, which Mrs B holds 
responsible for various problems, but I hope she can resolve matters satisfactorily. I can 
consider whether Ageas has treated her fairly in respect of the policy she has with it. And, I 
think it has.
Buildings insurance policies dont usually cover every possibility. What is and isnt covered is 
set out in the Policy Schedule and Policy Document and are generally sudden, one off type 
events. Certain events are commonly specifically excluded from cover. Any damage 
resulting from gradually occurring maintenance related issues, like wear and tear, will usually 
not be covered by the policy. 
There are two aspects to Mrs Bs complaint, so Ill consider them in turn.
The Flooding
Mrs B says she had suffered flooding some years previously. She also says there had been 
issues with damp which she was addressing. This included digging out soil floors and 
replacing with foam glass/lime & reclaimed tiles, after which the property was dry. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the Policy. A specific exclusion says:
We wont pay claims for repairs that wouldnt have been made if youd dealt with 
existing problems. Its your responsibility to look after your buildings , and your 
policy is designed only to cover you for things that you couldnt have reasonably 
prevented. You must also deal with a problem as soon as you become aware of it.
It also says:
We wont pay for rain or water damage to the inside of your buildings if the water 
gets into your house as a result of poor workmanship, bad design or wear and tear.
Exclusions like these are common in buildings insurance policies. And they are clearly set 
out in the policy documents provided to Mrs B when she took out the policy, so I dont think 
they are unreasonable. I think these exclusions are relevant here. 
The Surveyors letter refers to the building developer undertaking pointing to the stone wall 
that had been exposed by the excavation work, suggesting it required repair. The loss 
adjusters report refers to the lack of a damp proof course in the property. I think these 
essentially maintenance related issues were the reason water entered Mrs Bs home after 
days of heavy rain rather than a one-off event typically covered by insurance policies. 
I appreciate that Mrs B wouldnt have known the exact condition of the external pointing if it 
was previously hidden by soil and the rain came soon after it was exposed. But Mrs B had 
undertaken significant works to deal with damp problems in the recent past and I think its a reasonable assumption that there was the possibility of further works being required to keep 
the property dry.
Mrs B says that Ageas didnt come to inspect the property immediately after water entered in 
November 2020. Ageas has a file note that Mrs B didnt want to make a claim at that point. 
There may have been a misunderstanding here, but I dont think anything would have 
changed as Ageas would have rejected the claim then for the same reasons it did in March 
2021.  
I dont think Ageas has acted unfairly in saying the flooding wasnt covered by the policy.
Professional fees
The policy does provide for professional fees, like a Surveyors, to be paid but only if 
incurred:
as part of the repair or rebuild, as long as the damage would have been covered 
elsewhere in this buildings policy.
As I think Ageas didnt have to accept the claim in respect damage to the property, it follows 
that I dont think it has acted unfairly in rejecting this part of the claim also. Its clear that only 
professional costs relating to damage covered by the policy are included.
Whilst I know Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, I dont think Ageas has treated 
unfairly as if has followed the terms and conditions of the policy and it neednt do anything 
further.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman