DRN-2896083
The complaint
Mr B complains about the premium Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited charged him 
for his commercial motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr B said Markerstudy charged him too much for his policy at his 2019 and 2020 renewals 
as he said it had recorded incidents as claims. Markerstudy said there had been an open 
claim in 2019 which was now closed as non-fault and so it gave Mr B a refund for this. It said 
hed been undercharged in 2020. But Mr B remained unhappy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Markerstudy hadnt treated Mr B any differently to other consumers in its charges. But she 
thought Markerstudy had made a mistake in calculating the 2020 premium. She thought it 
should pay Mr B £100 compensation for this.
Markerstudy agreed to do this. But Mr B thought Markerstudy hadnt followed its policys 
terms and conditions by adding loadings to his premium because of incidents that hadnt led 
to claims. He wanted a full refund and compensation.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response to Mr Bs complaint, Markerstudy said it had applied a 15% load to his 
premium in 2019 due to two non-fault and one fault claim. It said there should have been a 
10% load in 2020 due to three non-fault claims, but it had undercharged Mr B, possibly as a 
price match. Markerstudy provided a refund for the increase due to the open claim that had 
been closed as non-fault. 
Mr B was unhappy that Markerstudy had added a loading for incidents in 2018 that hadnt 
led to claims. He thought this was contrary to its policy terms and conditions. Mr B has 
quoted the following term from his policy:
"There may be on occasions be incidents (possibly involving a cyclist or pedestrian) where, 
although you are not claiming for damage to your vehicle, there is a potential for a claim 
against your policy by the third party.
In these circumstances we may disallow your No Claim Bonus for up to 12 months until we 
are confident that a third party claim is unlikely to"
I agree that this means that incidents that dont lead to claims would affect the NCB for up to 
12 months. I think this is standard industry practice. But this doesnt mean that Markerstudy 
cant treat incidents the same as non-fault claims and apply a loading to the premium at 
renewal. And I can see that Mr Bs broker told him that Markerstudy charged on the 
frequency of incidents, whether they led to a claim or not. 
Ive seen Markerstudys underwriting criteria and I think it has correctly added a loading to 
Mr Bs premium due to the claims frequency. I cant tell Markerstudy how to rate its risks as 
thats its commercial decision. I cant see that it has treated Mr B any differently to any other 
consumer. And so I cant say its done anything wrong in this or treated Mr B unfairly. 
Markerstudy agreed to pay Mr B £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by an 
error in calculating his premium in 2020. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances as I can see that it took up Mr Bs time to have it corrected. And its in 
keeping with our published guidance on compensation awards. I dont require Markerstudy 
to do anything further.
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its error in calculating his premium, as its already 
agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as 
its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman