DRN-2702921
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received when he went to withdraw money from a 
branch of Lloyds Bank PLC and the way the bank responded to his complaint.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr P went into a branch of Lloyds Bank to withdraw £5,000 in cash. He says 
the transaction took longer than he expected. And this was because of the time it took to 
verify his ID. Mr P says he provided his driving licence as proof of identity and that this ID 
document was checked numerous times by 3 different members of staff. This made him feel 
uncomfortable and that the staff in branch were treating him as suspicious.
Mr P says because of the time it took to check his identity, a queue also built up behind him. 
The staff counted the money he was withdrawing out in front of the customers in the queue 
as a result of which Mr P says he also left the branch feeling unhappy and unsafe. Hed 
expected discretion from the staff.
Mr P says when his ID was being checked, he asked several times what the problem was. 
But the staff dealing with him didnt say what the problem was or why his ID had to be 
checked so many times. He believes he was subject to extra checking because of racial 
profiling by the bank. And he says he missed an appointment with a client because of the 
time it took to complete this transaction. This cost him £300 in missed fees which he feels 
Lloyds Bank should compensate him for.
Mr P complained to Lloyds Bank the same day and the next day he got a call from a member 
of the complaints team. But Mr P says this didnt help as he didnt feel they listened to his 
concerns. And he complains that they interrupted him at times and spoke over him. He says 
Lloyds Bank offered him £30 compensation for what had happened when making the 
withdrawal, but Mr P didnt think this was enough for what had happened or that it took into 
account the money hed lost.
Lloyds Bank accepted thered been some delay while Mr P was in branch. It believed this 
was due to a technical issue in scanning in Mr Ps documents. It also accepted it would have 
better if the staff had told Mr P what the problem was at the time. But it rejected the idea that 
thered been any racial profiling.
Lloyds Bank said it had paid Mr P £30 for what had happened in branch. And it apologised 
for the way the call the following day had been handled. But it said it couldnt agree to pay 
for the missed appointment as it didnt cover such losses.
Our investigator considered the complaint and came to the view Lloyds Bank had dealt with 
the matter fairly. As Mr P had been making a significant cash withdrawal, it wasnt 
unreasonable for Lloyds Bank to have to verify his ID. He understood Mr Ps frustration that 
it had taken so long but he hadnt seen anything to suggest this was due to anything other 
than a technical problem. He agreed Lloyds Bank could have dealt with it better by 
explaining the problem at the time, but it had now apologised and paid Mr P £30 for his 
inconvenience, which he felt was reasonable.
With regard to the missed appointment, Mr P hadnt been able to provide any information to 
confirm the amount hed lost and, in the circumstances, he couldnt reasonably ask Lloyds 
Bank to pay this amount to Mr P.
Mr P disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said if hed 
known it was important to have more information about the missed appointment, hed have 
tried to obtain it. However, he felt that the burden of proof regarding his losses was being 
passed to him, not the bank, - and this was unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of this complaint is Mr Ps concern that the way his withdrawal in branch was 
dealt with was unfair and unreasonable. He says he believes he was the subject of racial 
profiling and I can understand why he would find this so upsetting.
One of Mr Ps concerns is the number of times his ID was checked and the number of staff 
involved in doing this. He says the first member of staff scanned his drivers licence two or 
three times and then went over to a colleague who was in the middle of serving another 
customer and asked her something. That colleague then came over and asked for his 
drivers licence to be scanned again. A third person, who Mr P says looked like a manager, 
then came over and asked for his drivers licence to be scanned again. Mr P says he was 
found this very intimidating and it made him feel very uncomfortable.  He says he regretted 
hed gone into the branch and being a customer of Lloyds Bank at that stage as it felt like 
hed done something wrong or that there were suspicions about him.
Ive seen Mr P found this intimidating and that he felt he was being regarded with suspicion. 
And that was made worse by the lack of any clear explanation at the time. But having 
reviewed the information I dont think this was Lloyds Bank intention as Ill now explain.
Lloyds Bank, like all banks, is required to have adequate security measures in place to 
protect its customers and their accounts. The number and nature of any checks will depend 
to a degree on the value of the transaction but in this case Mr P was seeking to take out 
£5,000 in cash. Thats a considerable sum and I dont find it surprising that Lloyds Bank 
needed to carry out a range of security checks before approving the withdrawal - or that this 
might involve more than one member of staff. For a transaction like this, I would have 
expected at least two members of staff to be involved  the member of staff who originally 
dealt with the withdrawal request and a manager as they would have needed to authorise 
the withdrawal. So there was an extra person involved, and Mr Ps identification was 
scanned multiple times, which I wouldnt have expected, and nor would Mr P.
Ive seen that the way this checking was carried out made Mr P feel very uncomfortable. I 
think thats understandable in the circumstances but while Id agree that Lloyds Bank could 
have done more to reassure Mr P at the time, I dont consider that the number or nature of 
the checks carried out were unusual for a high value transaction of this type - the problem 
was the way they happened on the day. And having looked at what Mr P and Lloyds Bank 
have said about this, it seems most likely that the reason for this was a problem with the 
scanner. Thats because although the first cashier and her colleague had problems in 
scanning in and uploading Mr Ps ID, once they got further assistance from a more senor 
member of staff the transaction was successfully completed and Mr P was able to go ahead 
and complete his withdrawal. Ive considered whether Lloyds Bank could have dealt with the checks differently but the 
prompts as to what checks are required are set by the system and they cant simply be 
overridden. For that reason, although I sympathise with the situation Mr P found himself in, I 
dont consider the checks carried out by Lloyds Bank were in themselves unreasonable.
However, as Mr Ps explained, it wasnt just the way the checks that were carried out that 
was the problem but the fact that Lloyds wouldnt answer his questions about why it was 
taking so long. I can understand that and it seems reasonable to think that, if Lloyds Bank 
had explained that it was having a problem in processing Mr Ps ID document, then he would 
have felt more comfortable with the process. Hed also have been in a better position to 
decide on whether to wait or to come back another time. Lloyds Bank didnt do so, either at 
the time or in its telephone call with him the next day, and in that respect, I consider that its 
service wasnt as good as it should have been. 
The other aspect of Mr Ps complaint was the lack of privacy when the money was being 
counted out and the fact this made him feel insecure. Ive taken that into account but one of 
the features of any transaction in branch is that its likely to be less private than other 
methods, such as online banking, precisely because its not possible to predict how many 
customers may be in branch at any particular time. For that reason, although I sympathise 
with Mr P, I dont consider Lloyds Bank was responsible for this.
Turning now to the steps Lloyds Bank has taken to put matters right, Ive seen that Mr P 
doesnt consider that the compensation already paid by Lloyds Bank is enough, not least as 
it doesnt take into account that the delay meant that he missed an appointment and lost out 
on a fee of £300.
Ive taken that into account but I should explain that, in order to make an award for financial 
loss, I have to be satisfied both as to the amount but also that it occurred directly as a result 
of a mistake by the bank. Id expect to see details of the appointment and the fee that had 
been agreed as well as information to show it had been cancelled and the impact of this on 
Mr P. In this case I dont have this information and, without this, I cant reasonably ask 
Lloyds Bank to compensate Mr P for this loss.
I have however gone on to look at what happened in branch and the impact on Mr P. Its 
clear the transaction took longer than might have been expected due to a problem in 
scanning in Mr Ps ID. I realise how frustrating that was but its not clear this was an actual 
error by the bank for which compensation should be paid. However, it is clear that Lloyds 
Bank didnt explain the situation properly to Mr P at the time and that this was poor service 
for which it has apologised for this and paid Mr P £30. I accept Mr P doesnt feel this is 
enough but taking all of the information and circumstances into account, I consider this is 
reasonable and I wont therefore be asking Lloyds Bank to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I consider that the steps already taken by Lloyds Bank PLC are 
reasonable and I wont therefore be asking it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman