DRN-2150878
The complaint
 Mrs W is unhappy with the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled a claim she 
made on her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
 All references to IPA include any agents acting on their behalf. 
Mr and Mrs W went on holiday in December 2018. They had a travel insurance policy 
underwritten by IPA. Unfortunately, Mrs W suffered a fall on 6 December and sustained an 
open fracture of her right leg, leaving her bone exposed.
Mrs W was admitted to a local hospital on the island and advised she required medical 
treatment within 48 hours. But the procedure couldnt be carried out in the hospital she was 
in so she would need to be relocated. Mr W let IPA know what had happened and informed 
them that Mrs W needed to be moved for surgery within 48 hours. 
Over the next few days IPA didnt provide Mrs W with clear information about where she 
would be transferred and when this would take place. And their position changed several 
times. So Mrs W says she was left upset and confused about what would happen. 
On 9 December Mrs W was flown to a different island and her operation was carried out. IPA 
was informed Mrs W required further surgery either there or back in the UK. 
Over the next few days IPA repeatedly changed their mind about where the surgery would 
take place and when Mrs W would be transferred back to the UK. Mrs W says this caused 
her further stress and upset. 
Mr and Mrs Ws daughter (Miss W) was concerned about what was happening and the 
mixed messages theyd been given about a return date to the UK. So she flew out to help 
her parents with the claim. 
On 17 December Mrs W was transferred back to the UK to continue her treatment. Mr and 
Mrs W made a complaint because they were unhappy with the level of assistance they 
received from IPA. 
IPA looked into the complaint and acknowledged their communication shouldve been better. 
So they offered Mr and Mrs W £250 compensation. But Mr and Mrs W made a complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt think £250 compensation was 
enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. He said £600 in total was fair 
compensation. 
The business disagreed so the complaint has been referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that an insurer has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they should give a policyholder reasonable guidance when 
making a claim. In this case I think it is fair and reasonable to increase the level of 
compensation to £600 for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs W suffered a fall and had a difficult experience abroad. Im sure 
that it was a worrying and stressful time and I would expect IPA to respond appropriately. 
In this case, I think there were avoidable delays in providing Mrs W concrete information. 
And I understand why she felt a lack of confidence in what she was being told as the claim 
progressed.
Mr W informed IPA about Mrs Ws injury almost immediately. And IPA was aware of the 
medical urgency and need for Mrs W to be moved to a suitable facility for the operation. But 
despite providing assurances they would provide a fast response and arrange a safe return 
to the UK if necessary, I think IPA failed to take appropriate action. 
On 7 December Mrs W is told she would be evacuated on several different 
occasions. And I can understand why she would be worried her leg may become 
infected if she wasnt moved quickly. So, she wanted confirmation about where and 
when she would be transferred. I dont think its fair IPA were unable to provide this. 
Mrs W contacts IPA several times to request an update and its clear her concerns 
are mounting the more time that passes without an answer. I can see at around 
11am Mrs W is advised to get her luggage ready which suggests her transfer is 
imminent. However, she doesnt hear anything back so she calls IPA again at 
12.30pm and explains shes really worried her wound will get infected if she isnt 
treated soon. Mrs W calls back again at 2pm and the call handler notes by this point 
she is in tears and crying down the phone. 
At this stage IPA was aware how worried and upset Mrs W was but Im not satisfied 
they prioritised the case. I note that the call handlers did apologise for the delays and 
provided reassurances she would be evacuated for her operation soon. But again, 
unfortunately this didnt happen without further delay. 
At about 4.45pm Mrs W is advised shes likely to be moved to Tenerife later that day 
to receive treatment. The call handler notes Mrs W is relieved. But by 5.30pm IPA 
call back to advise shed be moved no later than the next day now. 
As shed been told she needed the operation within 48 hours to avoid infection, I can 
understand why this back and forth caused Mrs W further stress. She reminded IPA she was 
in a lot of pain and worried about getting an infection. Mrs W calls back at 8.30pm for an 
update and is told IPA is waiting for some costing information. And then she doesnt receive 
any further update. 
I dont think IPA kept Mrs W sufficiently updated or informed during this time and this caused 
Mr and Mrs W additional stress and worry. Due to the lack of clarity and confusion about 
what was happening, Mrs W felt the need to ask her daughter, Miss W to intervene and 
speak to IPA on her behalf. On 8 December Miss W calls IPA to raise concerns about the 
handling of the claim and the confusing updates her mother had received. She explained Mrs W was feeling more and more distressed and wanted to know when she would be 
moved for her treatment. 
I can see from the case notes IPA were attempting to arrange transportation to different 
facilities. And there was further confusion when the hospital said it had arranged their own 
ambulance transfer across the island. But I think this is an unreasonable delay in making a 
decision in these circumstances. And it was unfair for Mrs W to be kept waiting and worried 
that her open wound would get infected.
On the evening of 7 December 2018 IPA decided the best option was for Mrs W to 
be repatriated to the UK by air ambulance on the 9 December. So they informed Miss 
W this is what will happen. And she informs her parents of the plan. 
However, throughout 8 December Mrs W is informed of several different evacuations 
plans between the UK and Tenerife. And I can see Miss W had to again keep calling 
IPA for updates about what was happening and expressing her mothers upset at the 
conflicting information. Just before 9pm IPA called Miss W and explain her mothers 
repatriation to the UK planned for tomorrow had again been unsuccessful, so they 
were looking to move her to Tenerife instead. The call handler notes Miss Ws upset 
and said she commented that IPA were failing her parents . and let them down. 
IPA apologised for the further delay. 
I appreciate the logistical planning of transferring Mrs W off an island isnt simple. And I 
know the availability of hospital beds and air ambulances are out of IPAs control. But I dont 
think this further uncertainty and repeated change in decisions was fair to Mrs W. Especially 
after IPA was aware of the stress and upset caused by the previous days mixed messages 
and lack of updates. 
Mr and Mrs W then encountered further stress on 9 December when the hospital refused to 
discharge Mrs W because it hadnt received payment. I wouldve expected IPA to place a 
guarantee of payment with the facility Mrs W to ensure this didnt happen. 
Fearing they would miss their flight and chance of receiving Mrs Ws urgent medical 
treatment, Mr W felt he had no choice but to make the payment himself. Based on all the 
uncertainty they had encountered in the lead up to this transfer I can understand why Mr and 
Mr W didnt feel they could trust IPA to resolve this issue in a timely manner so felt it was 
safer to just pay it themselves and deal with it once they were home. Mr and Mrs W were 
flown to Tenerife in the afternoon and Mrs Ws operation finally went ahead at a facility there. 
On 10 December I can see that IPA were helpful in trying to arrange for Mr W to visit 
his wife whilst she was in recovery. At about 2pm Miss W informs IPA that Mrs W has 
been told she will require more surgery in the next week and wanted to get her back 
to the UK for this. Just before 9pm Miss W calls IPA again to update them that her 
mother has now been told she will need to remain in Spain for a further three weeks 
so she wanted some clarification. IPA explained they were awaiting the medical 
report to assess the medical need for the surgery and if Mrs W would be fit to fly back 
to the UK. 
On 11 December IPA receive a verbal medical report from the treating hospital. It 
explains the surgeon had found an open wound with sand on it that had been 
exposed for more than 48 hours, so Mrs W would need further surgery. It suggests 
Mrs W is repatriated back to the UK for the surgery, but IPA say treatment should 
continue there until Mrs W is able to fly back on a commercial flight. I dont think this 
was fair considering the previous delays Mrs W had already faced. And the impact of those delays on Mrs W receiving treatment within the crucial 48-hour window IPA 
had been informed about from the start. It should have been a priority to get her back 
home as soon as she was medically fit to fly. 
IPA told Miss W they think her mother should stay in Spain for the surgery and once she is 
fit-to-fly they will arrange her return home, possibly in four days-time. Miss W was unhappy 
with this after everything that had happened, so on 13 December, out of concern she flew 
out to Spain to assist with her parents claim. She wanted to speak to the treating doctor 
herself to understand if her mother could come back to the UK.
On 12 December 2018 the treating doctor confirmed Mrs W wouldnt be operated on 
by them for at least two weeks, but she was safe to fly home for the operation to take 
place in the UK.  I cant see that IPA let Miss W know about this - but it would have 
reassured Miss W that her mum would be returning to UK for the treatment so she 
may not have felt the need to travel out to Tenerife herself the next day. 
On 14 December IPA receives another verbal medical report from the treating doctor. He 
confirms Mrs W is fit to fly home with assistance, so IPA start to put plans in place for Mrs 
Ws return to the UK. After some further back and forth on dates, eventually IPA book a 
nurse to escort Mrs W back to the UK on 17 December 2018. 
Having reviewed everything, I dont think IPA provided sufficient support to Mrs W 
throughout her claim. And this caused additional levels of stress and upset to Mr and Mrs W 
at an already difficult time abroad. It was clear from the outset Mrs Ws operation was urgent 
but IPA repeatedly changed their mind on where and when she would be transferred. A lot of 
the internal notes show cost processing was a key issue when looking at the delays and 
the way in which decisions were made. And I think this impacted the service provided to Mrs 
W. Mrs W was clear that she wanted to return home so I can understand why the mixed 
messages around a return date wouldve been upsetting and caused her further distress.
Ive also considered if IPA should cover any of Miss Ws costs in travelling out to Tenerife to 
help her mother return to the UK as soon as possible. Ive pointed out things IPA could have 
done better to help reassure and keep Miss W updated with what was happening with her 
mother. But I agree with the investigator that it wasnt medically necessary for Miss W to 
help escort Mrs W home, because Mr W was already out there with her. However, I can 
understand why Miss W went to help her mother return to the UK in the circumstances and 
she may not have felt such a need if IPA had provided a better service.
Having considered the distress and frustration suffered by Mr and Mrs W due to a lack of 
meaningful support and communication I agree with the investigator that further 
compensation is due. 
I also note Mr W has said he still hasnt been reimbursed for food and drink expenses he 
incurred in his alternative accommodation. I understand these expenses havent yet been 
looked at so Mr W will need to provide evidence of his costs to IPA to consider. Then if he 
remains unhappy he can come back to us to complain about this
Putting things right
IPA should put things right by paying Mr and Mrs W a total of £600 compensation for the 
poor service received. This includes, for example, failing to provide regular updates or 
sufficient support to Mrs W and failing to transfer her for surgery in a timely manner which 
resulted in additional stress.   
My final decision For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance 
SA to pay Mr and Mrs W £600 in total for the trouble and upset caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman