DRN-2840492
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, increased the credit limit on his credit 
account, which he feels was unaffordable for him at those times.  
What happened
In December 2014, Aqua increased the credit limit on Mr Ts account from £600 to £1,350. 
Aqua later increased Mr Ts credit limit again, in June 2016, from £1,350 to £2,150. 
Sometime later, In February 2019, Aqua defaulted Mr Ts account due to unpaid arrears and 
told the account to a debt purchasing company.
In July 2020, Mr T raised a complaint with Aqua on the basis that he felt that the credit limit 
increases that Aqua had given him werent affordable for him at those times.
Aqua looked at Mr Ts complaint, but they felt that theyd undertaken reasonable checks into 
Mr Ts financial position at the times of the credit limit increases, and that there had been 
nothing resulting from those checks that had given them cause to consider that the credit 
limit increases might not be affordable for Mr T. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Aquas response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that there hadnt been any information 
available to Aqua at the time of the first credit limit increase in December 2014 that should 
have given Aqua cause for concern. 
However, our investigator also felt that it was evident, at the time of the second credit limit 
increase in June 2016, that Mr Ts financial position had deteriorated such that Aqua should 
have considered that the credit limit increase would have been unaffordable for Mr T at that 
time. So, they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mr Ts favour on that basis.
Aqua didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its up for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, on what 
terms. What this service would expect would be, if that business were considering increasing 
the credit limit available to a customer, that that business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that the additional credit being offered is 
affordable for that customer at that time.
Aqua say that they did that here. They reviewed Mr Ts management of his Aqua account 
and they looked at Mr Ts credit file to gain a wider understanding of his financial position. 
And Aqua maintain that there was nothing resulting from these checks that gave them cause 
to consider that the credit limit increases being offered wouldnt be affordable for Mr T at 
those times.
With regard the first credit limit increase in December 2014, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Aqua to conclude that the credit limit increase would be affordable for Mr T, 
and this is because there doesnt appear to be anything in the information available to me 
which should have given Aqua cause to suspect otherwise. Its also the case that Mr T was 
generally managing his Aqua account well at that time. So, I would find it difficult to conclude 
that Aqua acted unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr T by increasing the credit limit as they 
did.
However, by the time of the second credit limit increase in June 2016, things looked 
noticeably different, and its evident from Mr Ts credit file that he had experienced financial 
difficulties, and might be continuing to experience such difficulties, at the time that Aqua 
implemented the second credit limit increase. 
For instance, there are a significant number of payday loans visible on Mr Ts credit file 
taken in the time between the first and second credit limit increases. The use of payday 
loans can be an indicator that a person is experiencing financial difficulties. And in this 
instance, when considered alongside other potential indicators of financial difficulty, including 
recent arrears on several other accounts as well as Mr Ts overall level of external debt 
markedly increasing, I feel that there was compelling evidence available to Aqua such that 
they should have questioned whether the second credit limit increase was affordable for Mr 
T at that time.
Its also notable that Mr Ts management of the Aqua account in the time leading up to the 
second credit limit increase wasnt without incident, with several over-limit and late payment 
fees being charged.
It follows from this that I dont feel that Aqua did conduct reasonable and proportionate 
borrower focussed checks before implementing the second credit limit increase in June 
2016, and that the information that Aqua did check should have given them cause to suspect 
that the credit limit increase wasnt affordable for Mr T at that time. 
I also feel that if Aqua had conducted more robust checks, as I feel would have been 
reasonable and proportionate, that those checks would have confirmed to them that Mr T 
couldnt afford the credit limit increase being considered, such that Aqua shouldnt have 
implemented the credit limit increase they were considering.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Aqua were wanting here, but if follows that Ill be 
upholding this complaint in Mr Ts favour on that basis. I hope that Aqua can understand, 
given everything that Ive explained, why I have made the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Aqua must reimburse to Mr Ts account all interest applied to balances over £1,350 since 
June 2016. Aqua must also reimburse all fees and charges applied to Mr Ts account since 
June 2016.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Mr Ts favour, Aqua must return this 
balance to Mr T along with 8% interest calculated from the date of the interest, fee, or charge 
being reimbursed to the date of payment to Mr T.
Aqua must also remove all adverse reporting from Mr Ts credit file from June 2016 onwards.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman