DRN-2377003
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Services, was mis-sold to him. 
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr A under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car Finance 
that he electronically signed in June 2019. The car was initially insured under a group policy 
but when that policy ended and Mr A tried to insure the car he was told that it was imported 
so the insurance cost would be substantially higher that if it hadnt been imported.
Mr A complained to Oodle Car Finance that the car had been mis-sold to him because hed 
been told that the hire purchase investigation check on the car was clear before it was 
supplied to him. Oodle Car Finance arranged for the dealer to contact him and it said that 
the car hadnt been imported.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that the car was an 
import and said that by advertising the car as HPI clear a false statement was made by the 
dealer. She said that Mr A was unable to insure the car so he couldnt use it and she 
recommended that Oodle Car Finance should accept his rejection of the car. She said that it 
should: end the agreement; collect the car; remove any adverse information from Mr As 
credit file; and return any payments made by Mr A after April 2020.
Oodle Car Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that its contacted the manufacturer of the car and the DVLA and that:
the car was manufactured overseas in 2011 and then brought to the UK for sale 
when it was registered in the UK;
the car was bought by a purchaser who lived overseas in May 2012 and it was 
registered overseas;
the was brought back to the UK and the original registration was put back on; and
the car has been registered and used overseas but that doesnt mean that it was 
imported.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I havent been provided with the dealers advert for the car but Mr A says that it 
confirmed that the car was HPI clear and neither the dealer nor Oodle Car Finance 
has said that the car wasnt advertised as HPI clear;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the car has been registered and used 
overseas and both Mr A and Oodle Car Finance have provided results from HPI 
checks which show that the car was imported or had been previously registered 
overseas;
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable to expect that a car that was 
advertised as HPI clear hadnt been imported or registered overseas - and Im 
persuaded that its more likely than not in these circumstances that the dealer 
misrepresented the car to Mr A before it was supplied to him by saying that it was 
HPI clear when it had been registered overseas;
Mr A has provided evidence to show that the cost of insuring the car is substantially 
higher than it would be if the car had only been registered in the UK and I consider it 
to be more likely than not that he wouldnt have entered into the hire purchase 
agreement or agreed for the car to be supplied to him if hed known that the car had 
been registered overseas; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr A to be able 
to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that Oodle Car Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the 
car to be collected from Mr A  both at no cost to him. I also find that it should remove any 
adverse information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr As credit file.
Mr A was able to use the car between June 2019, when it was supplied to him, and April 
2020, when the insurance policy ended, and he says that he hasnt been able to use it since 
then. Mr A didnt pay a deposit for the car and I find that its fair and reasonable for Oodle 
Car Finance to keep the monthly payments under the agreement for the period up to the end 
of April 2020 as payment for the use that Mr A has had from the car. But I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for it to refund to him any monthly payments that hes made for the 
period after the end of April 2020. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I order Oodle Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr A  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr A any monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for 
the period after the end of April 2020.
3. Remove any adverse information about the agreement that its recorded on 
Mr As credit file.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman