DRN-3036943
The complaint
Mrs J complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited provided poor customer 
service when she gave instructions to encash units in her investment plan. She says she 
should receive the surrender value she was given when she first phoned to encash the units.
What happened
In summary, Mrs J phoned to encash £30,000 worth of units on 19 March 2020. Prudential 
told her it would have to either email her a withdrawal form or arrange a call back. Mrs J 
asked for a form which she completed and sent back by post, as required, the following day.
On 23 March 2020, Prudential called Mrs J to seek her instructions to encash the units. But 
the valuation it provided was around £21,000 less than the value shed been given during 
her first call a few days earlier. She decided not to proceed with the withdrawal by phone. 
But, in the meantime, Prudential had received Mrs Js written withdrawal form and it acted on 
those instructions. The units were enchased on 20 April, after the 28-day notice period had 
expired, and the proceeds were paid to Mrs Js bank account on 23 April.
Prudential said the overall value of Mrs Js investment plan dropped on 19 March due to a 
unit price adjustment (UPA). It said it was particularly busy on 19 March and no-one from 
its claims team was available to take her instructions. It said if she had been able to give her 
instructions on 19 March, the units would have been encashed on 17 April. But the price on 
that day was lower than the price Mrs J obtained, so she hadnt made a financial loss. It 
apologised for the poor service Mrs J received and paid her £150 compensation.
Our investigator thought this was a fair outcome and didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mrs J didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
She and her husband had investments with Prudential for many years and theyve 
always been able to give withdrawal instructions by phone.
Theyve never been in a situation where the valuation given wasnt the amount that was 
paid out.
She received no communication from Prudential about her complaint. The customer 
service was non-existent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and in my own 
words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this and it simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive considered firstly the figures Mrs J was quoted and the actual amount she received. Ive 
gone onto consider the service she received from Prudential.
When Mrs J phoned Prudential on 19 March 2020, she was given a total value for her 
investment plan of £221,822.61. This was, correctly, the closing value from 18 March. After 
close on 18 March, a UPA took place. But this wasnt reflected in the plans valuation until 
close on 19 March. The UPA adjusted the price down which was why, during the call on 
23 March, Mrs J was given a lower value.
I find the values Mrs J was given were correct. And, on both occasions, she was told the 
value wasnt guaranteed and could change on a daily basis.
I find the process by which a UPA takes place is covered in the plans terms and conditions. 
It explains that its smoothing process aims to reduce the impact of price movements over the 
short term. In part 5 of the terms it says:
Every day the smoothing process checks the gap between the smoothed and unsmoothed 
prices:
if the gap is less than 10% during a quarter, no adjustments are made,
if there is a gap of 10% or more, the unit price will be adjusted to reduce the gap to 2.5%.
The smoothing process makes an additional check at the start of each quarter:
if theres a gap of 5% or more, the unit price will be adjusted, reducing the gap by half.
Adjustments could be up or down, depending on whether the smoothed price is too far 
above or below the unsmoothed price. After any adjustments have been made the unit price 
will still increase at the Expected Growth Rate for the quarter.
Unfortunately, the smoothing process resulted in a UPA downwards. But I find this reflected 
the downturn in the market.
The terms also explain, in part 6, what happens when a withdrawal instruction is given:
When you decide to cash in your investment we'll apply the unit price on the 28th day after 
we receive your instruction. We'll then make the payment to you. During the 28 days the 
fund value may change, which means that the value you receive may be lower or higher 
than the value at the date you asked us to cash in your plan.
I find Prudential applied the unit price on the 28th day after her written instructions were 
received, in line with the agreed terms and conditions. If it had been able to accept Mrs Js 
instructions on 19 March, she would have received a lower price. This means, even taking 
into account interest she would have received on the withdrawal if it had been paid three 
days earlier, she hasnt made a financial loss.
Overall, I dont find Prudential provided Mrs J with incorrect figures, and I dont find she 
made a financial loss when Prudential couldnt accept her withdrawal in instructions on 
19 March.
I do find Mrs J didnt receive as good a customer service as she should reasonably have 
expected. For example:Prudential couldnt accept her withdrawal instructions by phone on 19 March 2020.
During the call on 23 March, Prudential couldnt tell Mrs J the reason for the change in 
valuation. I think it reasonably should have realised it was due to a UPA.
During the call on 23 March, Prudential wrongly told Mrs J that her units would be valued 
on the day the form was received. 
Prudential apologised for the poor service Mrs J received and paid her £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. Ive considered this carefully. In particular Ive thought about 
what Mrs J has told us about how this has been very stressful for her. I think some of this 
stress has been caused by the lack of response from Prudential since she raised her 
complaint. But I can see she asked her financial advisor to complain on her behalf and 
Prudential communicated with him. It sent its final response letter to the financial advisor 
which set out reasonably clearly what had happened here. It also contained its apology and 
its reason for paying Mrs J £150. That letter gave Mrs J information about her right to refer 
her complaint to us, and I wouldnt expect Prudential to communicate further about the 
complaint, unless directed by us to do so. So I think the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience should be limited to that caused to Mrs J when she wanted to make the 
withdrawal. For this reason, I find £150 is fair and reasonable.
It follows that I dont require Prudential to take any further action or pay any additional 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman