DRN-2804933
The complaint
Mr M complains about an invoice hes received from Consumer Refund Service Ltd (CRS) 
for work theyve carried out on a claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). Mr 
M says he never instructed them and wants them to withdraw the invoice and pay him 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr M completed a free PPI check form asking CRS to make enquiries into any claims 
against a number of lenders. CRS sent Mr M a letter of authority pack for each lender. CRS 
received a signed letter of authority from Mr M allowing them to approach Lender R to 
establish whether Mr M had been mis-sold PPI. CRS then received confirmation from Lender 
R that an offer of compensation had been made to Mr M. CRS then issued an invoice.    
Mr M complained and said he hadnt received any compensation and he hadnt provided 
further information to CRS to enable them to pursue his claim. CRS responded and 
explained Lender R had auto-converted Mr Ms claim and it was as a direct result of their 
involvement that a claim was created. CRS agreed their invoice becomes payable after Mr M 
receives the compensation. As a gesture of goodwill, CRS offered to reduce their invoice to 
15% plus vat of the compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. She thought CRS hadnt acted unreasonably in 
charging Mr M their fee. Mr M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Its clear theres a dispute here about whether Mr M instructs CRS to handle his claim for 
mis-sold PPI. Mr M says, by not completing and returning additional documents sent by 
CRS, he was indicating that he doesnt wish for them to engage any further. CRS say they 
sent the letter of authority and chased Lender R and this led to the claim being auto-
converted. Ive taken into account the conflicting views of the parties and looked at the 
evidence to decide if CRS have acted fairly and reasonably. 
I can see Mr M completes a free CRS PPI check form. This form lists a number of lenders 
and asks Mr M to place a tick beside any lenders who have provided a product or service. 
Mr M ticks the box beside Lender R. This leads CRS to send Mr M letters of authority for the 
lenders ticked by him and their Terms of Engagement. 
Theres a letter of authority signed by Mr M for Lender R which says You authorise and 
instruct [CRS] to pursue an investigation into whether [PPI]may have been sold to 
youand, if so, to investigate and pursue a complaint about the PPI following your 
instructions and the completion of a complaint questionnaire. It also says I/we hereby 
authorise and instruct CRS to pursue any complaint on my/our behalf and I understand 
that, in addition to the present Letter of Authority I will need to provide further information 
when raising an expression of dis-satisfaction to the Lender, about the underlying 
product(s)Doing so will enable the Lender to assess and determine the complaint as 
quickly and as effectively as possible.  
The Terms of Engagement say By completing, signing and returning the Letter of Authority, 
You agree to be bound by these Terms of Engagement. It then goes on to say CRS will 
handle the complaint about the lender for the mis-sold PPI. And, once a customer signs to 
agree to the Terms of Engagement, CRS will submit the complaint to the lender after which 
the customer will need to satisfy CRSs fees if a payment is made. It says the fees charged 
by CRS are 20% + vat of the compensation.  
Lender R send CRS a letter in January 2020 enclosing a copy of a letter sent to Mr M. This 
letter confirms that Lender R have identified a PPI policy was sold to Mr M. They say, as the 
query was received before the deadline, they have automatically logged a complaint. CRS 
then receive a letter from Lender R in August 2020 which encloses a copy of a letter sent to 
Mr M. The letter to Mr M says Lender R have upheld the complaint and offer him £4,101.75 
compensation. Lender R explain the next steps if Mr M wishes to accept the offer. The cover 
letter notes CRSs reference.  
Taking this all into account, I dont think CRS have acted unfairly or unreasonably. I say this 
because the information shows they receive a letter of authority which allows them to get 
things moving with the complaint. And, it gives CRS authority to investigate and pursue a 
complaint. They register an enquiry with Lender R and chase this. This then leads to Lender 
R writing to both Mr M and CRS to confirm theyve found a PPI policy. The evidence shows 
the offer is made as a direct result of CRSs involvement. And, I'm further persuaded this is 
the case in light of the letters Lender R has sent to CRS with updates and noting their 
reference number. I think its clear from this engagement that Lender R are aware of CRSs 
involvement and that theyre acting for Mr M.     
I can see Mr M refers to the letter of authority and two letters he receives asking for 
completion of a PPI questionnaire. He says, the fact that he doesnt complete the PPI 
questionnaire shows he didnt want CRS to carry out any further work. I understand Mr M is 
referring specifically to the section in the letter of authority which says CRS need a 
completed PPI questionnaire to investigate and pursue a complaint. And, Mr M also refers to 
the two letters which say its necessary for the PPI questionnaire to be completed if Mr M 
wants to instruct CRS to pursue a complaint. 
I think its important to clarify what the usual process was in PPI complaints and whats 
happened in this case. A Claims Management Company (CMC)  like CRS  would initially 
send an enquiry supported by a letter of authority to enquire with a lender whether a 
customer had any accounts with PPI. Thats what CRS did here. If the lender identified there 
was, then the CMC would need to submit a formal complaint in order for the lender to log a 
complaint. And, thats generally done through the PPI questionnaire. In this case, given that 
the deadline to submit claims was approaching, Lender R automatically logged Mr Ms 
complaint. It wasnt uncommon around this time for lenders to take such steps to ensure all 
claims were processed. That meant Lender R didnt require a PPI questionnaire  which 
CRS might well ordinarily have needed if the complaint wasnt auto-converted. And, while 
that might well have meant CRS would perhaps have been unable to move forward with Mr 
Ms complaint, it wouldnt change the fact that they had instructions to handle the complaint.  
Looking at the terms within the letter of authority and the Terms of Engagement, I dont think 
the absence of a PPI questionnaire suggests CRS havent been instructed. I can see Mr M 
feels quite strongly that the PPI questionnaire is the key document here which determines whether he instructs CRS. And, to support his view he makes reference to the letter of 
authority. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but Im not persuaded the instruction rests on whether 
the PPI questionnaire is returned. I think it rests on the signing of the letter of authority as 
that is what brings into play the Terms of Engagement  and this sets out the contract of 
service between him and CRS. 
The signing of the letter of authority, thereby accepting the Terms of Engagement, gives 
CRS permission to proceed with an investigation into PPI sold to Mr M by Lender R. I note 
Mr M says he feels the only work he authorised was a free check, but I think CRS went 
further than this  and had instructions to do so. The information Ive seen shows the letter of 
authority gives CRS instructions to carry out work, and that work leads to an offer of 
compensation. So, I dont think its unreasonable for CRS to issue an invoice for their fees. 
CRS have offered to reduce their fees to 15% plus vat. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman