DRN-3296707
The complaint
Ms R complains that LeasePlan UK Limited unfairly terminated her agreement and 
repossessed her vehicle
What happened
In May 2019 Ms R entered a five-year hire agreement for a vehicle with LeasePlan. She was 
required to pay £229.20 per month. Unfortunately, her income was impacted by the Covid -
19 pandemic and she was unable to maintain her monthly repayments. 
LeasePlan agreed two separate payment deferrals. The first covered February to April 2020 
rentals, which were added to the end of the agreement. In November 2020 Ms R contacted 
LeasePlan to request another three-month payment deferral. In error Ms R didnt email 
LeasePlan her acceptance of the payment deferral, so a payment deferral was not set up.
 
On 12 January 2021 LeasePlans collection agent attended Ms Rs property to remove the 
vehicle as her account was in arrears and a payment arrangement wasnt in place. Ms R 
was allowed to keep the vehicle at the time, a second payment deferral was submitted to 
cover the September to November 2020 rentals and a subsequent payment arrangement 
was agreed to repay the remaining arrears. LeasePlan says it repossessed the vehicle in 
April 2021 due to the arrears on the account.
Ms R complained to LeasePlan, she said she had a payment arrangement to repay the 
outstanding balance on her account over 12 months and was maintaining this arrangement 
when LeasePlan uplifted the vehicle on 28 April 2021. LeasePlan didnt uphold the 
complaint, it maintained the vehicle had been correctly repossessed for non-payment. 
Unhappy with the response, Ms R brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Ms Rs account had a 
history of missed and late payments. He thought Ms R had broken a payment arrangement, 
so he didnt think LeasePlan had made a mistake when it repossessed the vehicle.
Ms R disagreed, she said LeasePlan had not been clear about the reason for the 
repossession. Initially it told her she failed to make a payment in February 2021, then it said 
she didnt make a payment in December 2020. It later referred to her failure to clear the 
arrears that was not covered by the payment deferrals, but it was Ms Rs understanding that 
the remaining arrears were to be paid along with the deferred rentals for September to 
November 2020 over 12 months.
 
Ms R sent proof of her payment in February 2021. We asked LeasePlan to clarify why it 
terminated the agreement. It provided us with two call recordings from 12 January 2021. Our 
investigator reviewed the calls and said they showed LeasePlan had advised Ms R that in 
addition to agreeing to defer another three payments, to be repaid over 12 months, she 
would also need to pay the outstanding £638.80 arrears (non-rental charges) to prevent any 
further recovery action. Although Ms R was maintaining her rentals and had a separate 
payment arrangement to repay the deferred payments, she did not clear the outstanding 
charges by the required date, so he didnt think LeasePlan had done anything wrong.
We sent Ms R copies of the call recordings. Ms R was unable to access the calls due to 
technical difficulties. In any event she says that even if she did owe any outstanding 
charges, LeasePlan did not provide her with anything in writing to confirm this. Ms R also 
complained about LeasePlan failing to respond to her subject access request in March 2022.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this and this reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Ms R entered a hire agreement with LeasePlan. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
account history
Having looked at Ms Rs account, I can see she had a history of late and missed payments 
since September 2019. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), and in particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery 
(including repossession), say that regulated firms like LeasePlan should treat consumers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. Treating consumers 
with forbearance would include a number of things including allowing deferment of payment 
of arrears and accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time.
I can see that LeasePlan agreed several payment arrangements with Ms R, but they were 
not maintained. Unfortunately, this led to an increase of arrears of her account. Im satisfied 
that LeasePlan treated Ms R fairly, and in line with the expectations in the FCA handbook.
payment deferrals and payment arrangement
In March 2020 Ms R contacted LeasePlan to advise she was in financial difficulties, because 
her adult son was no longer working. LeasePlan advised her to get in touch with a 
professional debt advice service and agreed to put her account on hold until 17 March 2020. 
LeasePlan made numerous attempts to contact Ms R between March and June 2020, 
without success. 
Ms R contacted LeasePlan at the end of June 2020, she advised she had started a new job 
and offered to clear the arrears over a four-week period. LeasePlan didnt accept the 
proposal as the arrears on the account were around £2,000, it initially requested immediate payment and said it was unable to offer any further arrangements. It later agreed to consider 
a longer-term payment arrangement to clear the arrears, Ms R paid her July 2020 rental and 
LeasePlan sent her an income and expenditure form to complete, in order to set up the 
payment arrangement. 
Ms R contacted LeasePlan in September 2020; she explained the reason for her recent 
arrears was that her income had been impacted by the Covid-19. She requested a payment 
deferral. On 24 April 2020 the (FCA) published additional guidance  Motor finance 
agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance introduced a 
three-month payment deferral for consumers whose finances had been solely impacted by 
Covid-19. However, its clear from the arrears on Ms Rs account that she was already facing 
financial challenges before Covid-19, so I dont think the guidance applied in her 
circumstances. Notwithstanding this, in October 2020 LeasePlan agreed to defer Ms Rs 
March, April and May 2020 payments, which were subsequently added to the end of her 
agreement.
In November 2020 Ms R requested an additional three months deferral, in line with the 
updated FCA guidance. She also offered to pay £52 per month to repay the outstanding 
road tax. LeasePlan asked Ms R to complete an updated income and expenditure form to 
confirm the payment arrangement was affordable and agreed to a second payment deferral. 
Ms R needed to return her acceptance and the completed income and expenditure form via 
email. As LeasePlan didnt hear from Ms R, it didnt set up a new payment arrangement and 
it cancelled the deferral on 14 December 2020. 
LeasePlan were unable to contact Ms R, so it instructed a third party to collect the vehicle. 
The collection agency attended Ms Rs property on 12 January 2021, she told it she had 
been granted a second three- month deferral and had a payment arrangement in place. Ms 
R contacted LeasePlan to clear the matter up. During this call Ms R realised she had 
emailed herself the acceptance, in error. LeasePlan confirmed there was no payment 
arrangement in place and the second payment deferral had been cancelled due to no 
contact.  
During the call LeasePlan explained the total arrears were £1755.60. This included four 
rentals due between September to December 2020, and £838.80 for non-rental charges. 
LeasePlan provided a breakdown of the non-rental charges as follows;
- £180 setting up the agreement administration fee from 2019
-£312 road fund licence tax due May 2020 
-£46.80 parking violation due in August 2020
-£300 repossession fee January 2021
Ms R explained she had already made an online rental payment earlier in the day. The agent 
explained she could submit another request to defer the remaining three rentals September 
to November 2020 to be repaid over 12 months for approval (Ms R would need to repay 
£57.30 a month on top of her monthly rentals), but explained Ms R would still need to clear 
the charges arrears for the repossession action to be stopped. During the call Ms R paid 
another £200 and agreed to clear the remaining £638.80 charges by 19 January 2021. 
The agent completed an income and expenditure assessment with Ms R and assisted her 
with submitting a payment deferral request to cover September to November 2020 rentals. 
The recovery action was placed on hold until 19 January 2021.
Ms R spoke to a second agent on the same day to confirm her £200 payment was received. 
The second agent confirmed Ms R would need to call back to pay the remaining £638.80 
non-rental arrears by 19 January 2021. recovery of the vehicle
Ms R did not call back to pay the outstanding charges by 19 January 2021, so LeasePlan 
terminated the agreement and instructed the collection agency to recover the vehicle, it was 
uplifted on 28 April 2021.
 
I appreciate that it was frustrating for Ms R to have her vehicle recovered, particularly when 
she was back on track with paying her contractual payments and was also repaying her 
deferred payments, however there was a separate payment arrangement agreed for Ms R to 
pay £638.80 by 19 January 2021 and she failed to do this. I appreciate Ms R says she 
wasnt advised in writing that she needed to repay the charges, but Im satisfied from the two 
calls on 12 January 2021, that both agents made Ms R aware that she needed to make the 
payment to prevent further recovery action.
Overall, Im satisfied that LeasePlan treated Ms R fairly, by granting payment deferrals and 
setting up payment arrangements. The agreement Ms R signed sets out that she was 
required to pay £229.20 per month and all related non-rental charges. And if she didnt 
LeasePlan would be entitled to terminate the agreement and recover the vehicle. I can see 
LeasePlan sent Ms R the required arrears letters and a default notice on 11 September 2020 
letting Ms R know how much she owed and advising the vehicle would be repossessed if the 
arrears wasnt cleared.
LeasePlan subsequently agreed another payment arrangement with Ms R to clear the non-
rental charges, which was broken, so I dont think LeasePlan acted incorrectly when it 
terminated Ms Rs agreement and recovered the vehicle. Having said this, if there is an 
outstanding balance that Ms R owes, I must remind LeasePlan of its obligation to treat Ms R 
with forbearance and due consideration if she is suffering from financial difficulties.
subject access request
Ms R recently complained that LeasePlan are in breach of the Data Protection Act 2018 as it 
failed to respond to her subject access request made on 3 March 2022. The role of our 
service isnt to decide if a business has breached data protection laws  thats the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO), and Ms R has indicated she has already raised 
this with the ICO. Whilst this service can consider whether its fair and reasonable to award a 
customer compensation for any impact caused by a breach of data protection laws; Ms R will 
need to give LeasePlan the opportunity to respond to this complaint, before we consider it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman