DRN-4180243
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Dot Dot Loans lent Mr P three instalment loans, the loan details are as follows;
Loan 
number Start dateLoan 
amount (£) TermRepayment 
(£) End date
1 01/02/2012 250 3 months 122.45 06/03/2021
2 13/03/2021 400 6 months 129.68 15/03/2021
3 15/10/2021 400 6 months 127.23 17/10/2021
When Mr P complained to Dot Dot Loans, it didnt uphold his complaint and said it lent 
responsibly. Mr P referred his complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our 
adjudicators. Our adjudicator didnt think Dot Dot Loans was wrong to lend any of the loans.
Mr P disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans without undue difficulties or the need to borrow further. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Dot Dot Loans has provided information to show it asked Mr P about his income and 
expenses before lending any of the loans, Mr P declared his income as £1,800 for all his 
loans and his expenses for the loans ranged from £920 - £1,100. Dot Dot Loans says it 
verified Mr Ps income with his payslips although it hasnt provided copies of these. I can see 
Dot Dot Loans adjusted Mr Ps declared income of £1,800 for loan1 but Dot Dot to £1,447 
based on its checks. This suggests there was some kind of verification.
Dot Dot Loans also searched Mr Ps credit file and from what I can see although Mr P had 
historic defaults  which on their own, I dont think they should have prevented Dot Dot 
Loans from lending, there was nothing else on his credit file that suggests he couldnt afford 
the repayments of the all the loans in a sustainable manner.
Dot Dot Loans checks were reasonable in the circumstances of this case bearing in mind the 
loan amounts, repayments and what its checks showed. These reasonable checks 
suggested Mr P could repay the loans, so I dont think Dot Dot Loans was wrong to lend.
I appreciate my decision will likely disappoint Mr P but I hope my explanation helps him 
understand why I reached these conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman