DRN-2330171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the way that QIC Europe Ltd dealt with their claim for water 
danger to their property.
 
What happened
In March 2018 a burst pipe caused a lot of water to come into Mr and Mrs As property, 
specifically an annex in which they had been storing a lot of items. QIC sent out a loss 
adjuster to review the damage and it was identified that there was a policy limit of £5,000 for 
contents stored in an outbuilding. As Mr and Mrs A said the policy had been mis-sold to 
them, this was dealt with as a separate complaint against the broker. 
QIC appointed contractors to sort out the contents and to dry the property. Then further 
contractors to commence strip out work. However Mr and Mrs A were dissatisfied with the 
contractors, alleging that they failed to turn up, when they did they worked very short days 
and often turned up hung over. They also said that they had damaged contents which hadnt 
been damaged by the original escape of water by leaving them outside or leaving them with 
wet items piled on top of them.
QIC disputed Mr and Mrs As allegations against the contractors. It advised that it had no 
other contractors in the area so in July 2018 it offered a cash settlement of just under 
£10,000 for the repairs, including a payment for contents of £5,000. Mr and Mrs A turned 
down the offer and proceeded to obtain quotes that costed the outstanding work at a much 
higher figure QIC offered to appoint an independent surveyor to cost the outstanding work 
against Mr and Mrs As quotes.
The home has remained unrepaired since then, as the parties cant reach agreement. 
Mr and Mrs A pursued their complaint against the broker who agreed a settlement that it 
would pay the cost of any damaged contents over the £5,000 limit, up to the general policy 
limit.
 
Mr and Mrs A emphasised to us the severe stress it had put them under. Mrs A is disabled 
and in the course of the claim Mr A was hospitalised and has been diagnosed with a 
condition which requires lifelong medication. They believe the stress of the claim has 
affected their health.
On review of the complaint against QIC, our investigator thought that it had acted 
reasonably.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should emphasise that we are an alternative dispute resolution service. Our function is to 
resolve complaints informally. And we have to take an overall view of case and how it has 
been handled, based on the documentary evidence (and available telephone recordings). 
We cant interview witnesses and if complaints are made (as here) about the contractors 
conduct, without any evidence corroborating such allegations it is going to be unlikely that 
we will be able to uphold such complaints.
policy limit
As Ive said the contents were in an annex to the property, which QIC said was an 
outbuilding. Looking at the situation of the annex, being separate from the main home, I 
dont think that was unreasonable. Mr and Mrs A had raised the question of the annex with 
the broker and as Ive said ultimately the broker has accepted liability for the mis-sale of the 
policy. But I cant find that QIC acted wrongly.
Mr and Mrs A say that the loss adjuster tried to force them to accept the £5,000 contents 
limit otherwise he threatened to void the whole claim. There is a telephone recording 
available in which the loss adjuster said he wanted to progress the claim but didnt say the 
whole claim will be declined. I understand that Mr and Mrs A felt under pressure and at that 
stage the broker hadnt admitted liability. But I cant find that the loss adjuster acted 
unreasonably.
handling of the contents
Mr and Mrs A say there were particular items not damaged by the original escape of water 
which were damaged because the contractors failed to move them. And that items were left 
outside which could have been salvaged. QIC says its contractors only put items outside 
which were beyond economical repair (BER). Mrs A says in particular that a mobility scooter 
and wheel chair were left in the room when the ceiling fell down on top of them. And the 
wedding dress was left in suitcase outside. She also said that a family heirloom of a toybox 
was left with wet towels in it, thus ruining it.
Without being present or being able to see which items were damaged by the escape of 
water or which may have been damaged later, its very difficult to be able to resolve this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs A have assumed they werent damaged by the initial escape of water 
but I cant say whether that is the case. I recognise that the issue of the policy limit for 
contents in an outhouse caused great difficulties in this case. But I do think it was for Mr and 
Mrs A to identify any particular items so they could be recovered. As the broker should pay 
for these items and as I cant say that they werent damaged by the initial escape of water, I 
cant uphold this complaint.
Wirth regard to items being left outside the contractors say these were only the BER items. 
Without any other evidence that this wasnt the case again I cant say that QICs contractors 
acted unreasonably.
delays in carrying out the repairs
Mr and Mrs A say that the contractors failed to turn up, only worked three hour days and 
were often hung over. The contractors firmly deny this. And, as Ive said above I can only 
look at the evidence in front of me. Mrs A has shown us a couple of texts where she chased 
up the contractors but these were responded to with a text saying when they would be 
attending. Other than that theres no evidence apart from Mr and Mrs As account, that the 
contractors failed to turn up, worked short days, or were hung over.
distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs A say that the matter caused them a lot of distress. Mrs A is disabled and during 
the claim Mr A was hospitalised and now has a condition which needs lifelong treatment. I 
dont doubt the claim was very stressful for both of them. But I think the major issue was 
over the policy limit for the contents. Mr and Mrs A clearly stored a great deal of their 
contents in the annex and thought they had bought a policy which they were assured 
covered them in full. And I sympathise with them that they have suffered ill health. Having 
reviewed the claim and the way it was dealt with, apart from the issue of the policy limit the 
escape of water was always going to be distressing. We can only award compensation if we 
think the way the claim was handled added to the distress caused by an insurance claim. 
I dont think that the way QIC handled this matter was unreasonable so I cant make an 
award in this respect.
going forward
QIC has offered for an independent surveyor to cost the outstanding work against Mr and 
Mrs As quotes. I think thats reasonable. QIC has also advised that it now has new 
contractors who have joined its network, so this might be an alternative. The agreement over 
the contents entitlement means that the remaining contents will now need to be assessed. 
But those are matters which QIC will have to liaise with Mr and Mrs A about. If they remain 
unhappy after that, then they will have the right to raise a further complaint.    
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman