DRN-3819156
The complaint
Miss T complains that QIC Europe Ltd has turned down a claim for storm damage she made 
on a home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
In February 2022, Miss Ts gable wall was damaged during a well-publicised storm. She 
made a claim on her home insurance policy for the costs of getting the damage repaired.
QICs surveyor attended Miss Ts home and their report was subsequently reviewed by 
QICs in-house surveying team. QIC concluded that whilst there had been prevailing storm 
conditions, the damage was caused by gradually operating causes and poor workmanship. 
Both of these causes were specifically excluded by the policy terms, so QIC turned down 
Miss Ts gable wall damage claim. It did agree to consider a claim for glass damage under 
the accidental damage cover.
Miss T was unhappy with QICs decision and she appointed her own surveyor to assess the 
gable damage. Miss Ts surveyor concluded that the damage was caused as a direct result 
of the storm conditions. Miss T asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Miss Ts complaint should be upheld. He considered the evidence 
provided both by QICs surveyors and by Miss Ts surveyor. Overall, he found Miss Ts 
surveyors evidence to be more persuasive and so he was satisfied that the damage was 
down to the prevailing hurricane-force winds at the time. He recommended that QIC should 
pay Miss Ts claim, together with interest.
QIC disagreed and Ive summarised its responses. It maintained that Google street view 
images showed Miss Ts roof had latent defects prior to the storm. It considered the street 
view image clearly showed lateral movement on the gable end of her home. It said the 
under cloak on top of the gable end brickwork had moved and pulled the roof tiles with it. 
QIC felt this was most likely due to a failure of mortar around the wall ties. It also considered 
the images suggested that the mortar/bed fixing was already compromised and had 
deteriorated to the point it had lost its grip on the tiles. It didnt think wind speeds of around 
70mph wouldve caused the damage had the mortar around the wall ties not been 
compromised.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for QIC to turn down Miss Ts claim and Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss Ts policy and the available, specialist evidence, to decide whether QIC 
handled Miss Ts claim fairly.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
- Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
- Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
- Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no, then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
The contract terms say that QIC will cover loss or damage caused by storm force winds of 
Force 10 or above. These are generally wind speeds of above 55mph. Local weather reports 
from around the date of damage to Miss Ts property show wind speeds of around 72-
73mph. Winds of 72mph are considered a violent storm and winds of over 73mph are 
considered to be a hurricane. As such, Im satisfied there were storm conditions on or 
around the date of claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Storm-force winds can cause wall and brickwork damage and so Im persuaded that the 
damage to Miss Ts property is consistent with storm.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The terms of Miss Ts policy specifically exclude both damage that is caused gradually and 
damage which is down to poor workmanship. Based on QICs surveyors evidence, it 
concluded that the main cause of damage to Miss Ts property most likely took place 
gradually and that it was also due to poor workmanship. On the other hand, Miss Ts 
surveyor concluded that the storm was the main cause of the damage. As Im not a buildings 
expert, Ive carefully weighed-up the specialist reports which have been provided to me by 
both parties to decide which I think is the most persuasive.
Ive first considered QICs site visit report, which was carried out in early March 2022. The 
surveyor concluded: 
Following our recent site visit we are unfortunately unable to validate your recent claim for 
storm damage to your property. The weather has merely highlighted a pre existing lateral 
restraint issue as highlighted back as far as 2009. (image attached for reference) This is a 
common defect of properties of this type and age
The recent weather has merely highlighted the existing defect being the occasion rather than 
the cause of the damage.
QICs in-house surveyor considered photos of Miss Ts property and the site visit report. 
They agreed with the initial conclusion and stated that the gable damage was caused by a 
lateral restraint defect at the gable wallThe existing repair, using a helibeam tie, to tie the 
outer skin of cavity brickwork to the inner has failedThis is a gradual cause.The surveyor also concluded that damage to Miss Ts party wall and fence posts shouldnt 
be covered, as the fence posts are fixed into the retaining wall and are acting as a sail 
allowing the wind force to apply to the wall. This is a latent defect/poor design.
Miss Ts surveyor visited the property around three months after the storm happened. 
However, the damage hadnt been repaired at this point. Ive set out below what I consider to 
be the surveyors key findings:
It is understood that the insurance company have made an initial assessment of the 
damage suggesting there was a pre-existing lateral restraint issue and have therefore 
rejected the claim. This assessment appears to be based upon a review of photos from 
Google Street View. In addition, they have provided reference to the LABC providing 
guidance for Cavity separating walls and gable walls: the use of lateral restraint. This relates 
to current regulations and requirements which would apply to new build properties.
From our recent inspection of the property and from reviewing the images available on 
Google Street View, we could not identify any issues with lateral restraint as suggested by 
the insurers. From the photo image available on Google, it shows slight opening of the roof 
tile joints directly above the side gable to the verge. This, in our opinion, is due to minor 
deflection in the timber rafters, which is common in properties of this age. The roof tiles 
above the cavity gable are better supported and also, being the verge are further secured by 
sand/cement mortar joints. The minor opening of the tile joints is where the adjacent 
structure has deflected slightly, which will often occur over the life of the roof. The roof tiles 
appear to be original, and this would confirm the minor deflection is due to general natural 
deflection of the timbers rather than from additional weight where the covering has been 
changed. 
In addition, we were able to check the remaining inner skin of brickwork to the side gable, 
which was found to be upright and showing no signs of outward movement normally 
expected where issues with lateral restraint exist. The lower section of remaining brick gable 
was also generally vertical.
The remaining sections of roof tiles to the verge were found to be secure with the cement 
verge mortar in place. This would also suggest that the sections of verge, now missing, 
would also have been secured prior to the recent storm.
From our inspection the property was found to be well maintained. The roof was not in our 
opinion in disrepair. The minor issues indicated to the roof are not considered to be 
associated with lateral restraint and although there had been minor separation of some of 
the tile joints the roof is not considered to be in disrepair. From the remaining sections of roof 
verge, the tiles to this area were secure and not showing signs of previous movement. The 
open tile joints are likely to have existed for many years, likely to date back prior to the 
current ownership. We understand the property had been surveyed prior to purchase and no 
issues were highlighted with the roof. This is not uncommon in properties of this age and 
type of construction and did not, in our opinion warrant any urgent repairs or attention.
It is our opinion that the recent damage occurred as a direct result of (the storm). The 
property and roof are not believed to have been in disrepair and therefore, we
cannot see any reason why this would not be covered by a normal Buildings insurance 
policy.
QIC has had an opportunity to review this report and disagreed with Miss Ts surveyors 
findings. Its in-house surveying team added the following:Google street view and confirmation from the Policyholders employed surveyor, established 
that there has been deflection of the roof tiles along the verge this has resulted in gaps in 
the tiles. Gaps in the tiles of the roof are a known defect. This type of defect, left untreated, 
exposes the roof to be damaged by winds. Winds can get underneath the tiles and lift them. 
Driving rain would have the capability of penetrating the gaps in the tiles and has the 
potential to weaken the roof structure further.
Due to the location of the tiles, it has exposed the gable end wall which has then resulted in 
the top section of the gable wall to collapse as the gable end wall would no longer be stable.
Its clear that there are two widely differing views as to the main cause of the damage to 
Miss Ts property. Im mindful that QICs surveyor attended the property two months prior to 
Miss Ts surveyor and therefore had an opportunity to see the property closer to the storm 
itself. 
However, on balance, I find I am more persuaded by Miss Ts surveyors evidence. QICs 
site visit report is extremely brief and doesnt explain why the surveyor concluded that the 
damage was down to lateral restraint defects. It appears to me that QICs conclusion on this 
point was based more on Google street view images, rather than information given in the 
site inspection report itself. 
Miss Ts surveyors report is clear and detailed. It appears that they undertook an inspection 
of the property and made a finding that the damage wasnt due to lateral restraint defects. 
While they noted that there were some deflection issues with the tiles, they also found that 
the tiles were secured with cement and mortar. They have set out that they believed the 
missing tiles would also have been similarly secured. This would tend to support a 
conclusion that there were no clear issues or defects with the mortar. They also reached no 
finding that the gable wall damage was caused by issues with the wall-ties, or by the fence 
acting as a sail.
Ive borne in mind that hurricane force winds are capable of causing severe structural 
damage. Miss Ts surveyor noted that the affected gable faces south-west which faces the 
main prevailing weather and also faced the main direction of the recent storm.  So it 
appears that Miss Ts gable wouldve been facing the storm. Taking into account Miss Ts 
surveyors report; the photos Ive reviewed and the position of Miss Ts gable in relation to 
the storm winds, Im persuaded its more likely than not that the damage to Miss Ts property 
was caused by storm. While I have carefully considered QICs evidence, overall, on balance, 
I find Miss Ts surveyors conclusion that the main cause of the damage was storm more 
persuasive. And that means that I think it was unfair for QIC to turn down Miss Ts claim.
Miss T has since had the damage repaired. Shes provided us with a receipt showing that 
the works were paid for on 28 December 2022 at a cost of £1650. So I now find the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint would be for QIC to settle Miss Ts claim, in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, together with interest at an annual rate of 
8% simple, from the date Miss T paid for the repairs until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct QIC Europe Ltd to pay Miss Ts claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions. It 
must also add interest to the settlement, at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date Miss 
T paid for the repairs until the date of settlement.
If QIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Miss T how much it has taken off. It should also give Miss T a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman