DRN-1514240
The complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt arrange for her credit file to be updated as it had 
agreed to do in resolution to a complaint she had previously made.
What happened
On 24 December 2018, due to an error on TSBs part caused by a systems upgrade, Mrs M 
didnt receive a text alert to notify her that her account was overdrawn. Mrs M used this 
account to pay her bills and she had five direct debits which were due to come out that day. 
As a result of Mrs Ms account remaining overdrawn, all of her direct debits were returned 
unpaid. She incurred charges from both TSB and the companies who had tried to collect the 
direct debits. One of the direct debits was to a company Ill call V for payment under a car 
finance agreement. As a result of not receiving Mrs Ms payment on time V registered late 
payment information with credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Mrs M had sufficient funds in another TSB account, which she said she would have 
transferred to her overdrawn account had she received the text alert she was registered for. 
So, she held TSB responsible for her direct debits bouncing, the charges she incurred and 
the late payment information that had been recorded by V. And she complained to TSB 
about what had happened.
In its final response to Mrs Ms complaint TSB accepted responsibility for the direct debits 
being returned unpaid. It was satisfied that, prior to December 2018, Mrs M had an 
established pattern of transferring funds to her account when it became overdrawn so her bill 
payments could be met. So, it compensated her for all charges shed incurred as a result of 
her direct debits being returned unpaid. It also paid her £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused together with £50 towards any expenses incurred in 
discussing this complaint. 
As part of its complaint resolution TSB told Mrs M it would ask CRAs to amend her credit file 
to reflect that what had happened had been caused by its error. But the late payment 
information had been recorded by V. And TSB wasnt able to alter information recorded by 
another business. Mrs M wasnt aware of this so, in March 2019, she applied for a new 
mortgage to release funds to clear some debts. 
Mrs M was expecting her mortgage application to be accepted because shed had an 
application accepted in May 2018, which she hadnt been able to pursue at that time. 
However, her application in March 2019 was declined.
Mrs M said her mortgage application was declined because the late payment information V 
had recorded had impacted her credit score significantly. She put this down to an error on 
TSBs part because she said it had told her it would remove any negative information held by 
CRAs relating to the direct debits being returned unpaid in December 2018.
In May 2019, Mrs M raised further concerns with TSB that it hadnt amended her credit file 
as it had said it would. She informed TSB her mortgage application had been declined as a result of what happened, which had led to her incurring a financial loss as she was paying a 
much higher monthly payment  namely £1200 more than shed have been paying had her 
application been successful. 
TSB told Mrs M it wasnt able to amend her credit file. But it provided her a letter, which 
explained the late payment to V was due to its error. However, her mortgage company 
refused to accept it. TSB also offered to consider any costs associated with Mrs Ms declined 
mortgage application provided she could show its error was the sole cause of the mortgage 
being declined.
In July 2019 Mrs Ms credit file was amended by a CRA. She made a new mortgage 
application following this amendment, which was accepted. Mrs M said she incurred fees in 
setting up this mortgage, which she wouldnt have been charged had her application been 
accepted in March 2019. She stated her mortgage wasnt as favourable as the one shed 
applied for in March 2019. And she also said, by July 2019, her property had been down 
valued. So, Mrs M wasnt able to consolidate her debt and she was placed in a worse 
financial position as a result of what happened.
Mrs M asked TSB to compensate her for the additional costs she had incurred under her 
new mortgage. But it declined to do so. It didnt think the late payment information V had 
recorded was the sole reason her mortgage had been declined in March 2019. And it said it 
had provided a letter, which confirmed Mrs Ms payment to V had been late due to an error 
on its part. It thought this letter ought to have been sufficient for a lender to take into account 
when looking at Mrs Ms credit file. And it stated she hadnt provided evidence that proved 
her property had been down valued. 
Being dissatisfied with how TSB had responded to her complaint Mrs M referred it to our 
service. After our service received her complaint TSB paid a further £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs M had been caused and £50 towards any sundry expenses she had 
incurred. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mrs M and TSB and thought 
the overall compensation TSB had paid was fair and reasonable. So they didnt think it 
needed to do anything further. And they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. But Mrs 
M didnt agree with our investigators view. So the matters been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs M experienced here. Shes told our service that 
she was pregnant at the time. And I can appreciate how that added to the stress of what 
happened.
The crux of this complaint is about TSBs failure to arrange for Mrs Ms credit file to be 
updated as it had agreed to, in resolution to a complaint shed made about her direct debits 
being returned unpaid.
TSB accepts it made an error in assuring Mrs M it would arrange for the late payment 
marker to be removed from her credit file. This marker was recorded by V so TSB wouldnt 
have been able to remove it. However, TSB said, having told Mrs M it would remove the 
information V recorded, it should have followed through on that assurance. So, the issue 
here is whether TSBs failure to amend Mrs Ms credit file caused her to suffer financial loss.Mrs M believes TSBs failure to remove the late payment information V had recorded led to 
her mortgage application in March 2019 being declined. Shes provided evidence to show 
she successfully applied for a joint mortgage with her husband in May 2018, which wasnt 
pursued due to a change in her husbands employment status at around that time. However, 
just because Mrs M made a successful joint mortgage application in May 2018 it doesnt 
necessarily follow that an application in her sole name in March 2019 would have been 
successful but for the late payment information V had recorded. Ill explain why.
Lenders take many factors into account when assessing a mortgage application. And its 
possible for an application with one lender to be approved while the same application can be 
declined by another  even where its based on the same information.
For me to arrive at a conclusion that Mrs Ms unsuccessful mortgage application in  March 
2019 was caused by the late payment information V recorded Id have to be satisfied that if 
TSB had removed the late payment information, as it said it would, this would have led to her 
mortgage application being approved.
In December 2018 Mrs Ms credit file showed a score of 834. I havent seen a copy of her 
credit file from before December 2018. So, I cant compare Mrs Ms credit score in 
December 2018 to how it was before that date. 
Mrs M didnt make a mortgage application between May 2018 and March 2019. So, theres 
no evidence available to demonstrate that had she applied in December 2018, when her 
credit score was better, an application would have been approved.
I understand that the mortgage application Mrs M made in March 2019 was in her sole 
name. Her husband had become self employed by this point and wasnt able to meet the 
criteria required to be included as a party to the mortgage. This was a material change from 
the application previously made, which had been in joint names. And this could have led to a 
different approach being taken by a lender.
Mrs Ms mortgage application in March 2019 was made via a broker. And I can see our 
investigator gave Mrs M the opportunity of providing information from her broker to show that 
the late payment information was the reason her mortgage application was declined. 
However, Mrs M hasnt been able to provide the evidence requested.   
I understand that Mrs Ms personal circumstances had changed by the time she applied for 
her mortgage in March 2019. She had changed jobs and had less history with her current 
employer, which could also have an impact on a mortgage application.
Ive seen evidence that between December 2018 and March 2019 Mrs Ms credit score 
decreased from 834 to 693. She states this reduction is due solely to the late payment 
information V had recorded because this was the only change in the information recorded on 
her credit file. But there were other things going on around this time that I think would also 
have been taken into consideration by a prospective lender.
Other than making a payment to V late in December 2018 Mrs M had a blemish free history 
of consistently making payments on time. With that in mind I'm not persuaded that a single 
late payment recorded by V caused her credit score to significantly reduce as Mrs M 
believes.
I can see from her Mrs Ms credit file that, in December 2018, she was using 59% of her 
available credit limits. However, by March 2019, her usage had increased to 96%. So, after 
December 2018, her overall indebtedness had increased. Because Mrs M owed more by March 2019, when she made her mortgage application, this 
was a different lending proposition to the application that had been made in May 2018. So, 
different lending criteria would have applied. And this could have impacted on Mrs Ms ability 
to secure a mortgage.
Mrs M has provided our service with a copy of her credit file, dated June 2019. She says 
there was no change in the information recorded from March until June. But this isnt correct 
because I can see from Mrs Ms credit file that the amount of money she owed had 
decreased by June 2019. So, her indebtedness had reduced. 
On 2 July 2019, the late payment information was removed from Mrs Ms credit file. Mrs M 
has shown that this increased the score that a particular CRA gives to customers as part of 
its service. But its important to note that this score is information for customers  rather 
than information that a lender like TSB would use itself. But Mrs M says this supports her 
argument that the increase in her credit score led to a successful mortgage application. I can 
see Mrs Ms mortgage offer letter is dated 24 October 2019. And I havent seen any 
evidence to demonstrate what her credit score was at the time her successful mortgage 
application was made. Im therefore not persuaded a change in her score at the start of July 
can be said to have resulted in a mortgage application being approved over three months 
later.
I can see the mortgage Mrs M secured was a joint mortgage with her husband. This was a 
change to Marchs application, which had been in her sole name. And, while I havent seen a 
copy of Mr Ms credit file at the time the mortgage was approved, a joint mortgage 
application would have been considered in a completely different capacity to one in Mrs Ms 
sole name. 
Im not persuaded its possible to draw the conclusion that Mrs M mortgage application in 
March 2019 was declined because of the information V recorded. I say this because it would 
be artificial and unfair to compare applications for sole and joint mortgages, which are, 
essentially, different products. 
Overall, I havent seen enough evidence to enable me to safely conclude that Mrs Ms 
mortgage application was declined in March 2019 either as a consequence of the late 
payment information V had recorded or due to TSBs failure to remove the late payment 
information from her credit file. And this means I cant fairly ask TSB to compensate her for 
any additional costs she may have incurred in taking out her mortgage in late 2019.
TSB accepts the service Mrs M experienced fell below the standard it usually strives to 
provide. To recognise this its refunded the charges she incurred due to the direct debits that 
bounced. And its paid a total of £350 for the trouble and upset she was caused plus £100 in 
respect of any expenses incurred. 
Its clear Mrs M doesnt think the amount that TSB paid to resolve this complaint is sufficient 
in view of the distress and inconvenience she experienced or the length of time she had to 
communicate with it about her complaint. So, Ive assessed whether the level of 
compensation TSB paid appropriately recognises what happened.
Our service isnt here to punish businesses and, when deciding what potential compensation 
to award, we must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any business 
error and non-financial loss, including trouble and upset. 
Ive already explained that Im not persuaded Mrs Ms mortgage application was declined in 
March 2019, either as a consequence of the late payment information V had recorded or due 
to TSBs failure to remove the late payment information from her credit file. And, as TSB reimbursed Mrs M in respect of bounced direct debit charges, Im satisfied I dont need to 
ask it to compensate her for any financial loss here.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss, there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions 
have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Having thought very carefully about the impact all of this had on Mrs M, Im satisfied that the 
£450 already paid by TSB is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
I can understand why the issues affecting Mrs M caused her great concern. Its clear she 
was affected for some time by the issues shes complained about. But I think TSB offered as 
much assistance as it was able to and took appropriate steps to put things right here.
TSB provided Mrs M with a letter, which confirmed its error had caused her to make her 
payment to V late. This was all it could do here because it couldnt change information V had 
recorded on her credit file. I understand Mrs Ms lender wouldnt accept this letter. But that 
isnt something for which I can fairly hold TSB responsible.
Ive considered that the problems Mrs M experienced meant she had to spend time 
contacting TSB in attempts to resolve what had happened. Its only right that TSB 
recognises this and Im satisfied that, by paying the compensation it has, its done that in a 
fair way thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that wouldve been caused 
here. 
So, while Mrs M may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation TSB has already 
paid fairly recognises the impact its errors had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand Mrs M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with TSB informally, can do for her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman