DRN-2551298
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that following a block on Mr Rs business account Santander UK Plc 
blocked their joint account. This left Mrs R stranded overseas without access to funds for 
day to day living expenses. Mr R is unhappy the account was blocked without warning and 
he wasnt given a reason.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have a joint current account with Santander.
Mr R has a business account with Santander. Santander had concerns about some credits 
into Mr Rs business account which prompted a review and block of the account. During the 
review further payments of concern were received into the business account over a number 
of weeks. Following the block on his business account, Mr and 
Mrs Rs joint account was also blocked on 8 April 2020 pending a review.
Santander advised Mr R that he could still access his pension and salary from the joint 
account.
Mr R says that the block on the personal account has meant that his wife who was stranded 
abroad didnt have access to funds for day to day living or medical bills. Because they had 
no access to funds, Mrs R was unable to purchase a ticket to fly home.
Mr R complained to Santander on 14 April 2020. Santander didnt uphold the complaint they 
said they had done nothing wrong, they were entitled to review the account in line with its 
legal and regulatory obligations. 
The block on the account was lifted on 19 May 2020.
Mr R was unhappy with Santanders response, so he complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said Santander were entitled to review 
the account in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and the terms and conditions. He 
said that Santander hadnt caused any delays when reviewing the account. He didnt think 
Santander had done anything wrong and they werent obliged to give him reasons for the 
review.
Mr R was unhappy with the view. He said he had provided Santander with information 
regarding the credits and had gone into branch numerous times to clear any 
misunderstanding. His business almost stopped after many years of hard work. The situation 
had upset him and affected his health.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these 
reasons: 
Review and blocking of the account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr and Mrs Rs account. UK legislation 
places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must 
establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and 
there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. 
These obligations override all other obligations. Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied 
that this is what Santander was doing when it reviewed and blocked Mr and Mrs Rs 
account. 
Mr R has said he doesnt understand why Santander blocked the account when he provided 
documents to clarify any misunderstandings. And he doesnt understand why Santander 
werent satisfied by this. 
I appreciate Mr R found this whole episode frustrating, but Santander are entitled to carry out 
reviews of their customers accounts and to review specific payments under regulations and 
the terms of the account. So, I cant say they have done anything wrong when they blocked 
and reviewed Mr and Mrs Rs joint account.
Reasons for the block on the account
Mr and Mrs R have said they wanted to know why the account was blocked without any 
notice and the reason for blocking the account. Santander isnt required to give them specific 
reasons for blocking the account. So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong by not 
giving Mr and Mrs R this information  as much as theyd like to know.
Mr and Mrs R have said that the block made it very difficult for Mrs R to return home from 
abroad and to cover her day to day and medical expenses while abroad. I think Santander 
were fair in allowing Mr R access to his pension credits and salary. However, I recognise 
that this has been a difficult time for them both and Mr R remains unhappy about the 
blocking of the joint account. I realise theyll be disappointed by my decision, but overall, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Santander have acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly when they blocked their joint account and carried out a review. 
It follows I will not be asking Santander to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman