DRN-3357549
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to Shawbrook Bank Limited 
following a claim they made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for 
some problems that theyve had with their solar panel system.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F purchased a solar panel system from a supplier that Ill call P. This included 
some energy saving devices and a battery. They financed the purchase through two fixed 
term loans from Shawbrook, one for the battery and the other for the rest of the system. The 
panels were fitted in May 2018 and the battery in January 2019.
The parties are familiar with the background to this complaint, so I dont intend to set it out in 
detail here. But, in summary, the system hasnt been working properly. Mr and Mrs F say 
that its been costing them more in electricity usage than before it was fitted.
Mr and Mrs F have been in dispute with their energy provider, O, since early 2019, as their 
bills went up considerably after the panels were fitted and theyre now in arrears with their 
payments. Mr and Mrs F have had an independent report done on what may be causing 
their system to function incorrectly. This recommended that the wiring be changed and that 
the battery be removed, as it was drawing power from the grid. It also wasnt needed as Mr 
and Mrs F used most of the electricity that the panels would generate.
Our investigator thought that Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. She recommended 
that the battery system be removed and that the loan agreement relating to it be unwound. 
She also thought that the solar panel systems wiring should be inspected and repaired. She 
said this could either be done by a third party or by S. Although if S did the repairs, then 
these would need to be checked by an independent expert. She recommended 
compensation for some of the electricity usage, the cost of the report and the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs F. As Mr and Mrs F had been having some financial 
difficulties, she also said that Shawbrook should look to agree a repayment plan with them 
for the solar panel loan. 
Mr and Mrs F and Shawbrook agreed with some of our investigators recommendations, but 
not others. As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator, for 
substantially similar reasons to those given in her opinions on this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ill start by saying that I was very sorry to hear about the difficulties that Mr and Mrs F have 
had getting this problem sorted. This matter has gone on now for much longer than it ever 
shouldve. And I think that P should have taken Mr and Mrs Fs concerns a lot more seriously 
when they first complained to it.
Ps response that the system appeared to be working fine on their computer system was 
clearly not enough here. It shouldve gone out to check what the problem was. P was aware 
that, at the very least, one of the problems was with the SMET1 electricity smart meter that 
Mr and Mrs F had at their home. And P really should have recommended that meter was 
changed when the system was first installed. As a result, almost four years later, Mr and Mrs 
F still have a system that appears to be functioning incorrectly.
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint has been brought against Shawbrook for Ps failings in getting the 
system fixed. Shawbrook is responsible for that under Section 75 of the Act in the same way 
that P would be for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. Here, Mr and Mrs F bought 
a solar panel system from P that was sold on the basis that it would save them money. And 
so far it hasnt. Shawbrook must take responsibility for that.
Mr and Mrs F have asked why this Service isnt holding P responsible for the trouble theyve 
experienced. Thats because P isnt a regulated financial service business and so doesnt fall 
under our jurisdiction. But Shawbrook does. So, whilst I cant hold Shawbrook responsible 
for every failing of Ps, I can require that it answer to Mr and Mrs Fs Section 75 claim for 
breach of the contract that it financed and any misrepresentation with respect to the battery 
system. As P is still trading, it will in any event end up bearing the cost of this award.
Our investigator has already set out her detailed thoughts on this complaint in her views, so I 
dont intend to address everything here again, as I agree with most of what shes said. The 
parties also please shouldnt assume that I havent considered everything that they think 
may be important, just because I dont mention it in this decision. I have looked at everything 
thats been sent to us and reached my own impartial conclusion.
Whats at issue here is that both parties dont agree entirely with the redress that our 
investigator has recommended. So, Ill focus on explaining that in this decision. For 
completeness though, I have found that there has been both a breach of contract and a 
misrepresentation here.
The system clearly isnt performing as intended. The cause of that may be due to the wiring 
being incorrect - or indeed because the SMART meter in Mr and Mrs Fs home wasnt 
compatible with this system  its now been replaced with a SMET2 meter which I 
understand does not have the same problems as the SMET1. Mr and Mrs Fs expert has 
said that both of these things are to blame - and I find that report persuasive. In response, 
Shawbrook has sent us some certifications indicating that the system was signed off as 
working in the first place. But despite P having ample opportunity over the last few years to 
inspect the system and provide a report, it hasnt. And it didnt warn Mr and Mrs F about the 
problems with the smart meter when the panels were first fitted.
So, taking everything into account, I accept the recommendations made by Mr and Mrs Fs 
expert and will be requiring that Shawbrook action them. The recommendations include that 
the solar battery should be removed and that the solar panel systems wiring be fixed to 
comply with the relevant standards. The expert also said that the Smart meter should be 
changed, which has already happened. That report cost £250 and I think that Shawbrook 
should cover the cost of it.
Mr and Mrs F would like the entire solar panel system removed. I understand their depth of 
feeling on this subject. Whilst at one point during this complaint theyd said that theyd prefer 
to keep the system, but not the battery, they now want it all removed to end the awful 
experience that theyve had once and for all.
Deciding on what amounts to fair compensation in solar panel complaints often isnt simple. 
The parties will sometimes have had a very lengthy period of disagreement and complaints 
that we see do often roll on for many years. Compensation also isnt an exact science. And I 
must weigh up the interests of both parties in deciding what award it is fair and reasonable 
for me to make.In this case, Mr and Mrs F have a solar panel system that includes not only the panels but 
also a number of other energy saving devices. The battery is one part of the system that I 
agree should be removed. But the rest, with some changes, should still be functional and 
save Mr and Mrs F some money in the long term.
In Ps solar quotation, it estimated that Mr and Mrs F would use 75% of the electricity 
generated, so thats about 2,300 kWh of the estimated 3,100 kWh a year that the panels are 
expected to generate. Mr and Mrs Fs expert says that they use substantially all of the 
energy generated. So, Im at a loss to see why they would ever have needed the battery in 
the first place. Given this, I have found that P mis-sold the battery to Mr and Mrs F. Clearly 
representations were made as to why they should have the battery installed and these must 
have been incorrect. But for those misrepresentations, I dont think Mr and Mrs F would have 
bought the battery. So, its now only fair that it be removed, as they will get limited benefit 
from it in the future.
The experts report also says that the battery may not be functioning correctly. The expert 
says that it appears to be drawing power from the grid. Some batteries do this when theres 
insufficient power from the panels to charge them. And Mr and Mrs F have said that their 
mobile app shows that the battery is sometimes fully charged. Whilst that might explain 
some localised increased electricity usage, the energy stored by the battery should still have 
been available for use in the house. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs F will have lost out 
financially as a result. But I will be requiring that the battery system be removed, and the 
finance unwound. It will then be as though Mr and Mrs F never had the battery in the first 
place.
In terms of the solar panels and the other energy saving devices, I think it would be 
disproportionate if I were to require that these be removed. Instead, I agree with our 
investigator that they should be checked and, if required, changed to comply with the 
applicable regulatory standards.
Its possible that the replacement of the electricity meter will in part solve the problems that 
Mr and Mrs F have had to date. O has now replaced the meter for a second time  they now 
have a SMET2 meter, which apparently doesnt have the same problems recognising the 
energy generation. But the wiring for the panels may still need changing and there will be 
consequential changes required in any event when the battery is removed.
Its rare that wed consider that an entire solar panel system should be removed where some 
changes would result in it operating correctly. Mr and Mrs F have quite a significant annual 
energy usage. Before the panels were fitted, they were using over 10,000 kWh a year. And 
the year after the amount was similar, if not a little higher.
I understand that there has been some commentary on a hot tub having been fitted at Mr 
and Mrs Fs home after the panels went in. And Shawbrook think this may account for the 
increased usage. But Mr F has said that this has been off for much of the time. And I have 
no reason to doubt this. P clearly thought that the SMET1 meter was most likely responsible 
for the lack of electricity savings. And I agree that was more likely than not the main 
problem. If the panels had been working as intended, given Mr and Mrs F use most of the 
electricity they generate, youd expect to have seen some reduction in the electricity used 
from the grid. And there hasnt been.
Of course, there may be a number of other explanations for that higher cost too. Like 
increased usage within the household. But something seems to have gone wrong here. And 
both P and Mr and Mrs Fs expert think that the meter was likely to be involved.
If the panels were to be functioning correctly and all the electricity generated was used, Mr 
and Mrs F should save in the region of 3,000 kWh a year. Electricity prices are going up all 
the time at the moment. And from April this year, its likely that, with the energy cost cap, Mr 
and Mrs F will be paying at least 28 pence a unit. So thats a potential saving of over £800 a year. And this doesnt include any savings that may be made from the other energy saving 
devices as well.
Whilst I can completely understand why Mr and Mrs F would like the panels removed, I dont 
think thats fair and reasonable here. It appears that the system can be fixed and thats what 
I think should happen. Mr and Mrs F should then benefit from some savings going forward.
I also appreciate that Mr and Mrs F are nervous about having P fix the system. Thats why 
our investigator recommended that either an independent expert carries out the repairs or 
inspects the system afterwards. I think thats a fair recommendation and should hopefully 
give Mr and Mrs F the peace of mind that the system will work correctly going forward.
I understand that Mr and Mrs F have been in dispute with O for some time about a very high 
electricity bill that they have. Our investigator has recommended that Shawbrook refund the 
difference in electricity usage from May 2018, when the panels were fitted, to March 2019 
when P identified what the problem was likely to be. Given that I think that the smart meter 
was most likely to have been the main problem here - and it was that which led to an 
increase in energy usage - I think that our investigators recommendation was a fair one. I 
cant hold Shawbrook responsible for O not changing the meter at the time P recommended 
it be changed in March 2019. So, the compensation should only be for the period above.
Mr and Mrs F think that the compensation should run on until such time as the panels have 
been fixed. But I dont agree. The households usage was already high before the panels 
were fitted and its just not possible for me to conclude that the increase in cost to Mr and 
Mrs F was solely down to the panels not working correctly for the whole time. They could just 
as easily have been using more energy at home. Or indeed, given the unit cost of electricity 
has gone up over that time too, that could well be the reason it has cost them more as well.
Mr and Mrs F are still in correspondence with O about the bills and I do hope that they can 
achieve a satisfactory conclusion there. The Smart meter does appear to have been at least 
part of the cause of the higher bills. And whilst I think its fair for Shawbrook to compensate 
Mr and Mrs F for part of that cost  which its calculated to be £273.02, I dont think it needs 
to cover any more than the period identified.
I was sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs F have been having some financial difficulties of late. 
This cannot have been easy for them. I too consider that Shawbrook should follow the 
regulatory requirements and treat Mr and Mrs F positively and sympathetically when 
considering what sort of a repayment plan can be agreed for the balance of the loan.
I wont be asking Shawbrook to write off any of the payments that havent been met as part 
of this decision. Mr and Mrs F should, once the work has been carried out, have a system 
that is capable of saving them money in the long term. And it wouldnt be fair for me to say 
they should have that for free. But Shawbrook should take into account all of their 
circumstances, and what has happened during this complaint, in deciding what an affordable 
repayment plan looks like.
Mr and Mrs F have said that this whole saga has caused them significant distress and 
inconvenience. And I fully appreciate how difficult this must have been for them. But I can 
only compensate them for how Shawbrook has made this worse, rather than what P did to 
cause this in the first place. And I agree with our investigator that £300 is fair compensation 
for Shawbrooks role in the delays dealing with this claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that Shawbrook Bank Limited:
Arrange to fully unwind the solar battery loan and purchase agreement. The battery 
system should be removed and Mr and Mrs Fs property made good. All payments 
made by Mr and Mrs F toward that loan should be refunded and Shawbrook should add simple interest to those payments at 8%* a year from the time that they were 
made until theyre refunded. The loan and any negative entries must also be 
removed from any credit reference agency reports for Mr and Mrs F;
Arrange for a third-party installer or P to repair and/or re-wire the solar panel system 
so that it complies with all the regulatory and best practice requirements that were in 
place at the time that it was originally fitted. If the work is carried out by P, then a 
third-party installer should be asked to verify that the work done is compliant and that 
the system is in proper working order;
Pay Mr and Mrs F the cost of the difference in electricity use that they incurred 
between May 2018 and March 2019 when compared against that from the same 
period in the previous year;
Refund the cost of the experts report in the sum of £250;
Pay Mr and Mrs F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyve 
been caused; and
Treat Mr and Mrs F positively and sympathetically when considering a repayment 
plan for the cost of their solar panel loan going forward.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Shawbrook deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr and Mrs F request it, Shawbrook should provide them with a certificate showing 
the tax deducted so that they may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman