DRN-3626184
The complaint
Miss R complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out proportionate affordability 
checks before it granted her loans. Had Morses carried out proportionate checks it wouldve 
discovered she was stuck in a cycle of borrowing and couldnt afford her repayments. 
What happened
Miss R was advanced two home collected loans between July 2021 and February 2022. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 09/07/2021 11/02/2022 35 £15.00
2 £600.00 11/02/2022 outstanding 35 £30.00
Morses has told the Financial Ombudsman that as of May 2022, Miss R still owed it around 
£630.
Following Miss Rs complaint Morses wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold 
her complaint. Miss R was unhappy with this response and referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he didnt uphold it. He said, Morses made a 
reasonable decision to provide these loans. He said the information Morses gathered from 
Miss R showed she was able to afford these loans and he couldnt see anything within the 
checks which may have indicated Miss R was having (or likely having) financial difficulties. 
Morses didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss Rs didnt agree with the outcome and she asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
also provided some comments:
She doesnt consider the checks to be proportionate because she made repayments 
monthly rather than weekly.
Miss R repaid loan 1 with loan 2 and Morses didnt make enquires as to why she 
needed another loan.
Miss R provided bank statements which showed she was living in her overdraft. 
Morses didnt check that she had other debts to repay. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Rs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss R. These factors include:
Miss R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss R.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss R was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Rs complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan Miss R declared she had a weekly income of £400 and she declared weekly 
outgoings of £174. This left Miss R £226 per week in disposable income to be able to afford 
the contractual repayments of £15 per week. 
Based solely on the income and expenditure, it was reasonable for Morses to have believed 
that Miss R would be able to afford the repayments. 
Morses has also said for the first loan only, it carried out a credit search and it has provided 
the Financial Ombudsman Service with the results that it received from the credit reference 
agency. It is worth saying that there is no requirement within the regulations at the time to have 
carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific standard. And the information Morses 
received may have differed from what Miss R could see on her credit report due to a number 
of factors including the information Morses requested and any reporting delays by other 
credit providers. But what Morses couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react 
to any concerning information that it may have seen. 
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses Im satisfied that while it was aware of 
some adverse information it wasnt in my view sufficient for Morses to either decline the 
application or to have prompted it to have carried out further, more in-depth checks. 
Ive summarised some of the key information that Morses was aware of, from the credit 
check results.
Miss R had 10 active credit facilities with around £10,000 of existing debt. 
Miss R hadnt had any delinquent account markers (such as missed payments) 
reported in the previous 14 months. 
It had been 25 months since Miss Rs most recent default had been applied. 
Between 25 and 48 months before this loan was approved 11 accounts had 
defaulted. 
Miss R had repaid five of the defaulted accounts.
Overall, while Morses knew that historically Miss R must have had some quite significant 
financial difficulties given the number defaulted accounts I dont think, in this case it wouldve 
led it to either further checks or it declining Miss Rs credit application and Ive explained why 
below. 
The adverse credit file data did appear to be historic, given that there hadnt been any 
adverse credit file information reported within the last year. Morses could also see, from the 
credit report that Miss R was taking steps to repay the defaulted accounts because she had 
been able to settle almost half of them. 
The historic defaults also wasnt a reflection of Miss Rs current financial position or her 
ability to repay this loan  I think this is especially true as it had been almost a year since 
any sort of negative payment marker on her credit file. I think Morses wouldve most likely 
concluded that Miss R previously had significant problems in the past but was now in the 
process of rebuilding her finances. 
I know Miss R has sent us her bank statements, but given what she declared to Morses and 
what it could see in her credit check results I dont think Morses needed to have carried out 
further checks such as verifying the information it had gathered by reviewing them. So, at 
this point in the lending relationship I think it wouldve been disproportionate to the 
circumstances for Morses to have reviewed her bank statements. 
I do accept, after having looked at the bank statements that there were potential signs of 
financial difficulties given in the month before this loan was advanced there are a number 
returned direct debit payments  indicating that Miss R already didnt have enough money to 
service her outstanding commitments. There is also evidence of Miss R already repaying a 
number of other high cost credit providers  which again could be a sign that 
Miss R was struggling. But this information wasnt reflected in either the credit search 
results, or the information Miss R declared to Morses  information Morses was in my view, 
entitled to rely on.  Therefore, given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable 
for Morses to have relied on the information Miss R provided along with the income and 
expenditure figures to show she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Rs complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
For loan 2 Morses carried out similar checks as it did for loan 1  expect this time a credit 
check wasnt carried out. I cant uphold the complaint solely because a credit check wasnt 
carried out because what Morses needed to do was carry out a proportionate check which 
may (or may not) involve a credit check.  
It asked Miss R for her income which she declared to have slightly increased to £440 per 
week. She also declared weekly outgoings of £100 leaving a slightly larger weekly 
disposable income of £330. Which was sufficient to be able to afford the weekly repayment 
due to Morses of £30. 
I dont have copies of the application forms, so I dont know what reason was given as to 
why this loan was needed  and Morses hasnt told us. However, whatever reason Miss R 
needed the loan for that wouldnt set aside Morses regulatory obligation to carry out a 
proportionate check  which I think it has done here. 
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship and although I accept that Miss R 
has borrowed more and her payments have doubled, that on its own wouldnt be enough to 
uphold the complaint considering there didnt appear to have been any repayment problems 
to date.
I can also see from the statement of account provided by Morses that Miss R was repaying 
loan one on a monthly basis rather than by weekly. However, home credit loans do provide a 
degree of flexibility with the repayments and I can see that Miss R was making monthly 
repayments equivalent to four-week contractual repayments. But this, on its own wouldnt 
have prompted Morses to have carried out further checks because ultimately, Miss R was 
appearing to repay her first loan without any difficulty. 
I also think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on the information Miss R provided 
which showed the loan repayments were affordable. This has led me to conclude that 
Morses made a reasonable decision to lend and I am not upholding Miss Rs complaint 
about this loan either. 
This decision has only dealt with whether Morses acted reasonably when it advanced Miss R 
credit. Miss R has told Morses that she is having financial difficulties and so, in line with the 
regulations Morses is reminded of its obligation to treat her fairly and with forbearance while 
she is repaying the outstanding balance due. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman