DRN-1650069
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) wouldnt close his bank account using the two 
forms of identification he presented. He believes it racially discriminated against him.
What happened
Mr F presented his driving licence and passport as proof of identity at a local TSB branch so 
he could close his current account. He says the branch manager refused to close his 
account because the documents mightve been fake. A month later, Mr F went to another 
branch and, after showing only his driving licence, the branch closed his account.
Mr F complained to TSB that it racially discriminated against him when the first branch 
refused to close his account. TSB responded to say it was standard practice to see the 
account debit card before closing an account. So it didnt think it had treated him unfairly. 
Mr F remained of the view that TSB refused his first request because of racial discrimination.
Our investigator thought that TSB couldve closed Mr Fs account when he made his first 
request and upheld his complaint. He thought a payment of £50 as compensation for its 
refusal to close the account using the identification presented was warranted.
Mr F was unhappy that no mention was made of his complaint about racial discrimination.
TSB disagreed with our investigator. It said that because transactions were pending on the 
account, it couldnt close it on the day. It also said that Mr F continued to use the account 
after he asked to close it.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. But, 
having considered Mr Fs description of his experience along with TSBs reasons for not 
closing his account, I dont think any additional action to that already proposed is warranted. 
Ill explain why.
Theres no record in TSBs files of Mr F visiting the first branch so its not clear why TSB 
refused to close his account. He says it suggested his documents mightve been fake. TSB 
says its probably because it prefers to see the account debit card. It also says pending 
transactions on the account around the time he said he called in wouldve stopped it closing 
the account straightaway. 
Ive looked at the account and there were pending transactions for a day or two after Mr Fs 
request. However, as TSB has no record of his visit or request, it seems unlikely that it 
wouldve looked at his account. So I dont think the pending transactions are necessarily the 
reason for not closing his account. If they were, then I think its likely that TSB wouldve told 
Mr F that and he couldve made other arrangements.
I think its possible that the TSB branch didnt close the account because Mr F didnt present 
his debit card, but it hasnt explained why it considers that a more acceptable form of 
identification than Mr Fs passport and driving licence. Or why he was able to close his 
account at a different branch using just his driving licence. Mr F said the TSB branch refused 
to check his documents and it didnt provide him with any opportunity to prove his identity by, 
for example, asking security questions or calling the issuing Government department. So, on 
the face of it, there doesnt appear to be any valid reason for TSB rejecting Mr Fs request to 
close his account on that first visit.
Mr F successfully closed his account a month later at another branch presenting just his 
driving licence as proof of identification. TSB said he used his account during that month, so 
it was clear he still needed it. I dont agree. I wouldnt expect Mr F to stop using his account if 
he still had funds available to him. And I dont think TSB can say his subsequent use of the 
account justifies its refusal to close it because it cant possibly have known he might use the 
account if it remained open. 
Mr F feels he has been discriminated against given the problems he experienced in the first 
branch. TSB said Mr F wasnt known to the branch and the sort code showed his own 
branch was some considerable distance away. If the location of his own branch mattered, I 
cant see why presentation of his debit card wouldve made any difference. And, as theres 
no evidence that TSB checked his account, I dont think it can reasonably claim that it 
rejected Mr Fs request to close his account because of pending transactions. The second 
branch closed his account on presentation of his driving licence, so its fair to assume the 
first branch couldve accepted both driving licence and passport as valid forms of 
identification. I think this was a shortfall in service.
I can understand that Mr F has concerns about the way he was treated, and I hope that it 
helps him to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into those concerns. 
While I cant say with any certainty whether the first branch wouldve handled the request 
any differently for someone else in identical circumstances, its clear that TSB couldve been 
more helpful when Mr F visited the first branch. It appears, quite simply, that the branch 
wasnt fully aware of its policies and that caused Mr F some inconvenience. For that reason, 
Im satisfied that its appropriate for TSB to compensate Mr F for its shortfalls. Our 
investigator proposed £50 compensation and I think thats a fair sum in recognition of the 
distress caused and the inconvenience of having to visit another branch unnecessarily.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. TSB Bank 
Plc must:
pay Mr F £50 compensation for the shortfalls in customer service and inconvenience 
caused when it refused to close his account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman