DRN-2145246
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) caused delays during repairs to 
their home after a claim on their buildings and contents policy. This resulted in contractors 
charging cancellation fees. They would like these reimbursed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B claimed for an escape of water (EoW) which had damaged their bathroom and 
the ceiling of the living and dining room below. RSA accepted the claim. Its contractors 
undertook some work in removing Artex from the ceiling and walls in the living and dining 
room as there were concerns about asbestos. Mr and Mrs B were using their own builder to 
undertake the rest of the works. 
Around two weeks before their builder was to start work the builder expressed concern about 
the skirting board in the living and dining room. This had been damaged during the Artex 
removal and needed to be replaced. It was felt that the carpet would need to be lifted to 
achieve this, but it was glued down in places. The builder thought specialist removal and 
refitting would be needed. It also raised a concern about possible damage to the carpet 
during plastering. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted RSA by email on 27 June 2020 referring to damage following the 
removal of the Artex and asked that RSA send another assessor. This was arranged for 9 
July 2020. Mr and Mrs B say when this appointment was made, they advised that the 
plastering was planned for 8 July 2020 but could be put back a few days as other areas 
needing repair could be started first. 
Once the assessor had been Mr and Mrs B contacted RSA for updates. On 11 July 2020 
RSA agreed the skirting needed to be replaced with the carpet to be lifted and refitted, if 
possible. This was Mr and Mrs Bs preferred option as the carpet matched that in the rest of 
the house. RSA arranged for a specialist to attend on 15 July 2020. It said the carpet 
couldnt be removed without damaging it and it would need to be replaced. It said it would 
send an urgent report to RSA to advise it about this. 
Mr and Mrs B say they chased RSA repeatedly. But say they couldnt speak to anyone as 
the case handler was now on annual leave and the person covering the claim was 
impossible to contact. They say they did speak to RSA on the 19 July 2020. They were 
advised the claim would be checked and they would be called back but werent. It was 
another two weeks when the original claims handler returned from leave before replacement 
was authorised.
Mr and Mrs B say because of these delays theyd had to put off the plasterers for four weeks 
and they were now unavailable because of other commitments. This caused further delays 
with other tradesmen. Mr and Mrs B say this caused inconvenience and distress, adding 
months to the completion of repairs. The contract with the plasterer contained a cancellation 
fee of £250 per week, which was applied. Mr and Mrs B say this meant they were charged 
£1,000 more by their builder than they should have been.
RSA said it wouldnt pay the cancellation fee and Mr and Mrs B complained. RSA agreed 
there had been service failings and around four weeks of delays. It offered £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by this. But it said it wouldnt pay the 
cancellation fees as it hadnt authorised the plastering work and Mr and Mrs B hadnt 
contacted it about the issue with the carpet until after theyd already arranged for the 
plastering to begin. 
Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. 
He said whilst RSA hadnt specifically authorised the plastering in the living and dining room 
to start, there was an active, ongoing claim with ongoing works in the house, which included 
this plastering. He said there had been four weeks delay and RSA should pay the 
cancellation fees.
RSA repeated that it hadnt agreed to the work starting or to the cancellation fee. This had 
been arranged before it had the opportunity to assess the situation. It said cancellation fees 
hadnt been mentioned. Had they been it would have advised it wouldnt pay them. It also 
said that the fees didnt appear to be justified or were exaggerated. It said the plaster could 
have worked around the issue by putting sheeting down to cover the carpet pending RSAs 
response.
  
Our investigator didnt change his view. He said RSA accepted there had been four weeks of 
delay. Mr and Mrs B were in regular contact with RSA concerning authorisation of works 
throughout the claim. So, it was aware of what was happening. And it wasnt reasonable to 
expect the whole job to be delayed or stopped without any consequence. He said as part of 
the problem was the difficulty Mr and Mrs B had in contacting RSA to obtain authorisation, 
there seemed little opportunity for cancellation fees to be discussed. 
He said it wasnt reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to continue works without knowing whether 
RSA was authorising either uplift and refitting or replacement of the carpet. He said RSA 
should pay the £1,000 cancellation fee.  As RSA dont agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint.  
Mr and Mrs B had already made a complaint about delays in respect of the handling of the 
claim following the EoW. This was upheld by our service and £250 compensation awarded 
for the inconvenience caused and Im not considering those issues here.
However, there was still an active claim when the problem with the carpet arose, with RSAs 
own contractors having just completed their work. I dont think it is that unusual that during a 
building project of this scale situations arise requiring prompt decisions to avoid delays and 
cost overruns. I think RSA took an unreasonably long time to appraise the situation, then to 
make and communicate its decision. The delay resulted in additional costs from Mr and Mrs 
Bs contractors.  
These costs are clearly set out in the contract and whilst RSA has argued they are 
unjustified or exaggerated I dont think they are unreasonable given the quotation and size of 
the job, which was expected to take six days.
RSA seems to have focused on the plastering in dealing with the complaint. But I think the 
issue was more about damage that might be caused to the carpet in replacing the skirting board. These were damaged by RSAs contractors. So, I dont think RSAs argument that the 
plasterers could have worked around the carpet pending a decision is relevant here. There 
would be no point plastering and then removing the skirting as this would be highly likely to 
damage the new plaster. 
So, I dont think it is reasonable for RSA to argue that it isnt responsible for the cancellation 
fee as it hadnt had a chance to assess the situation and approve the start of plastering. 
Having been stripped of Artex by its own contractors RSA would be aware the walls and 
ceiling were going to need plastering. And when planning the work Mr and Mrs B and their 
builder werent to know that the skirting was going to be damaged or might reasonably 
expect it to be promptly remedied if it were. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted RSA nearly two weeks before the plastering contractor was due to 
attend. They say they explained the situation on the phone before the assessor attended. I 
think its likely that if the skirting hadnt needed replacing the plastering could have been 
completed without removing the carpet. The Artex had already been removed, itself a dirty 
job, with the carpet in place without apparently damaging it.   
Once the assessor attended on 9 July 2020, I think RSA should have been aware there was 
a problem that needed prompt resolution so the claim could be progressed. That didnt 
happen and I dont think Mr and Mrs B acted unreasonably in wanting confirmation about the 
carpet before progressing the work. RSA accepts there were delays and has already paid 
compensation of £100 for the delay. I think this is reasonable as it was possible for some 
other works in the property to be progressed during this time.  I also think it is reasonable 
that RSA is responsible for the additional costs incurred by Mr and Mrs B in needing to 
postpone the plasterers.
So, I think it is fair and reasonable that RSA pay £1,000 to Mr and Mrs B to cover the 
cancellation costs they have incurred. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I uphold the complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Plc. 
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B £1,000 in respect of their cancellation 
costs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman