DRN-4096332
The complaint
Miss D complains Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded transactions that theyve disputed.
What happened
Miss D had an account with Barclays.
Miss D says she noticed fraudulent transactions totalling £376 going out of her account so 
she contacted Barclays. Miss D said that she was the only person to have access to the 
account.
Barclays investigated and said that the transactions had been authenticated using its mobile 
banking app. In the circumstances Barclays held Miss D liable for the transactions and 
reversed a credit it had applied to Miss Ds account whilst it investigated.
Miss D was very unhappy with Barclays, and the fact that it had reversed the credit applied 
to her account. She said that this had left her account overdrawn and unable to spend 
benefits shed received. Miss D complained to Barclays and to us.
Barclays accepted that it hadnt handled the dispute as well as it could have done and sent 
Miss D £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Miss D says that she never saw that money as it 
cleared the overdraft when it was paid into her account.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ds complaint but didnt recommend that it be 
upheld because Barclays had shown that the transactions had more likely than not being 
authorised by Miss D. Miss D disagreed and said she wanted her money back and the 
compensation Barclays had agreed to pay. She asked for her case to be looked at by an 
ombudsman. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see four payments totalling £376 left Miss Ds account on 26 September 2022. Miss D 
says she logged into her account shortly afterwards  to check money she says shed 
transferred into her Barclays account had been received and thats when she noticed these 
payments. Miss D says they were going to a beneficiary whose name she didnt recognise. 
So, she called Barclays disputing the transactions.
I can see Barclays applied a temporary refund to Miss Ds account and that Miss D spent 
part of this refund. That meant that her account went overdrawn when Barclays 
subsequently reversed the refund. Barclays had, however, at that point shown that the 
payments had been made on the device Miss D normally used to transact, that Miss Ds 
usual IP address was used and that the person who had made the payment had Miss Ds 
card too and knew her passcode. I dont think that was unfair given that Miss D had told 
Barclays that no-one else had access to her device or card or knew her passcode. In other 
words, there was no evidence Miss Ds details had been compromised.
Miss D hasnt sent any additional evidence to show how her details could have been 
compromised. In the circumstances, I agree that Barclays didnt act unfairly when it decided 
to hold Miss D liable for these transactions.
Miss D has pointed out that she was the one who reported the fraud to Barclays, and that 
she wouldnt have spent all the time she has spent trying to get her money back if the 
transactions were hers. Thats something Ive taken into account, but I have to look at all the 
evidence too.
I can see Miss D was unhappy about the way she was spoken to on the phone and the way 
Barclays handled her dispute. I can see why Miss D thought Barclays had been rude to her, 
but I do think some of the suggestions Barclays had made  for example, seeing if she could 
get help from a food bank  were well intentioned. I can also see Barclays paid Miss D £100 
in compensation which I consider to be fair. So, I dont think it needs to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman