DRN-3424037
The complaint
Mr S, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In November 2016, Mr S acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Having paid a cash deposit of £400 Mr S was then required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of £460.15,The total repayable under the agreement was £27,548.85.
Mr S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a search of Mr Ss credit file and checking 
his income. Moneybarn also said it was aware of a previous default around 18 months prior 
to Mr S taking out the agreement. 
Mr S has been sent several default notices and has also entered into a number of payment 
plans with Moneybarn. Our understanding is that he has retained the use of the car. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They thought Moneybarn didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance 
agreement. Mr S sent us some further information about his regular outgoings at the time he 
took out the agreement but this didnt change our adjudicators view. 
Mr S and those representing him didnt agree. In particular they said Mr Ss family had to 
help him out financially to be able to get the credit that Moneybarn had made an error in 
calculating his monthly income. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr S about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check to understand how Mr had managed existing and previous finance arrangements and 
also verified Mr Ss income using information from two months of bank statements which set 
out his regular commitments. Ive seen that Mr S had a defaulted account 18 months earlier, 
and a county court judgment six months before he started the agreement.
However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed. Whilst the historical default and record of a county court judgment 
suggests that Mr S may have had some past financial difficulty, he appeared to be in better 
control of his financial and debt commitments by the time he took out the agreement. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Moneybarn gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Mr S. I say this because, taking into account his average monthly income in the 
two months before he took out the agreement  based on income he received for work 
rather than other sources  I can see he was receiving around £1,700 per month. Having 
then taken into account his typical level of monthly withdrawals, household bills and rent and 
not seeing any other evidence that he was getting into further financial difficulty, I dont think 
Moneybarn acted unfairly when approving the finance application. I say this having noted 
that Moneybarn may have relied on a higher figure for Mr Ss income, including sums 
provided by family members. Having adjusted for this figure, however, I nevertheless agree 
with our adjudicator that Mr S would have still had been left with sufficient disposable income 
to cover his monthly repayments to Moneybarn. 
Finally, I would like to add that I am sorry to hear about the difficult personal circumstances 
Mr S has recently experienced. However, given that my role is to look at the question of 
whether or not Moneybarn was right to provide Mr S with this agreement at the time he 
arranged the finance, this is isnt something that will affect my finding. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman