DRN-2780965
The complaint
Mr H complains he was mis-sold a motor warranty by Sytner Group Ltd. Reference to Sytner 
includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Mr H brought a used sports car, and at the same time bought an extended warranty from 
Sytner. The warranty was sold by Sytner but underwritten - or insured  by another business 
who Ill refer to as the insurer. He purchased the car and the warranty in the UK, then 
exported the car to Jersey. Mr H said he made it clear at the point of sale that was always 
going to be his intention and needed the extended warranty to still offer him the same 
protection in Jersey as it would in the UK.
While driving in Europe, Mr H noticed the oil warning light came on his sports car. He topped 
up the oil but later noticed the oil warning light came on again. He contacted the insurer who 
said hed need to drive 600 miles to monitor the oil consumption to see if there was a 
problem. Mr H wasnt happy with this, as he said 600 miles in jersey would take him months 
to achieve. However even after he had monitored the oil, the insurer said there wasnt 
anything to repair on Mr Hs car. It said this was because the oil consumption was within the 
manufacturers accepted levels. The insurer said there wasnt a problem with the car, so the 
warranty didnt provide cover.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained to Sytner. He said he was mis-sold the warranty 
as he wasnt told hed have to go to such lengths to show there was a problem with his car. 
And hes said in his opinion there is a problem with the car, so the warranty should cover the 
required work. He said he was told the warranty would offer an unadulterated driving 
experience. And he says he hasnt had this. Eventually, Mr H sold the car back to the 
dealership for a significant loss. Hes said this wouldnt have happened had he not been mis-
sold the warranty.
Sytner didnt agree it mis-sold Mr H his warranty. It said it wouldnt be reasonable to go 
through every aspect of the policy at the point of sale, but it says it went through the key 
aspects of the cover and thinks ultimately the policy performed as it represented it would. It 
acknowledges Mr H has issues with the insurer, and the manufacturer, but it doesnt think 
this means it mis-sold Mr H his motor warranty.
Mr H didnt accept Sytners response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought the 
issues Mr H was experiencing were with the manufacturer and the insurer and didnt think he 
was mis-sold the warranty.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case has come to me. 
Mr H has said that had the warranty been properly represented to him, then he wouldnt 
have purchased it or the car. He thinks the mis-sale of the warranty is the reason for his 
financial loss in selling the car back to the dealership.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I understand it will be a 
disappointment to him. Ill explain my reasoning.
The problem with this complaint is that there are three main aspects to Mr Hs problem, and 
as a service we can only look into one of those aspects. The first aspect is the performance 
of his car  did it actually have a fault? The second is the performance of the warranty  
should the warranty have covered the problems Mr H was experiencing with his car? The 
third is the sale of the warranty  was Mr H given a false impression of what the warranty 
would cover him for, and importantly, if he was, has this caused him a loss?
As a service, we cant look into the performance of Mr Hs car. Nor in this case can we look 
into the performance of the warranty as the underwriter isnt within our jurisdiction. This 
means the only aspect we can look into is the one which relates to the sale of the warranty.
For me to say Mr H was mis-sold the warranty, Id have to be satisfied that he was given 
false information or advice. Or that he wasnt given important information that he should 
have been. And Id need to be satisfied that if the two respective points applied, that this 
induced Mr H into purchasing the warranty, i.e. Id need to be satisfied that had Mr H been 
given the correct information or advice, that hed have taken a different action in relation to 
the purchase of his warranty. 
In this case, this was an advised sale. So Sytner recommended this product to Mr H and 
was required to recommend a product which suited his needs. And Im satisfied it did. I 
understand Mr H said not all the terms and conditions and exclusions were explained to him 
at the point of sale. But Sytner dont need to run through the terms and conditions line by 
line, page by page. It needs to explain the key features of the policy and make sure its 
something Mr H may benefit from if he needed to claim on it.
I appreciate Mr H thinks the mis-sale of the warranty is the root of his problems with this car, 
but I cant agree. The first issue is whether or not his car actually has a fault with it. And that 
dispute isnt linked to the sale of the warranty. And that dispute isnt one we can look at.
The second dispute is whether or not the warranty should provide any cover for repairs 
carried out on Mr Hs car. And that is linked to the previous problem  of whether the car has 
a fault. And it is linked with the sale of the warranty too.
Mr Hs mis-sale argument is based on a few key points. The first being that he wasnt told 
hed need to have such a large burden of proof to demonstrate the car had a fault. And 
secondly that he wasnt told that these issues would be excluded from cover as theyre not 
specifically excluded in the policy.
In addressing Mr Hs first point, I understand his disappointment with having to drive over 
600 miles to demonstrate the fault he thought his car had. However, I think thats linked to 
the nature of the problem with the car and what the technicians required to assess it. And I 
dont think Sytner would reasonably know what Mr H would need to do for each and every 
possible problem he may have with his car or be expected to explain this at the point of sale. 
Its a general principle of insurance that the policyholder needs to demonstrate they have an 
issue covered by the policy. Mr H was aware that the policy only covered him for faults. The 
dispute here is whether or not the problems he had with his car were faults or not. And as 
mentioned, that dispute isnt the responsibility of Sytner in its actions of selling this warranty.And Mr Hs second key point  that these faults arent specifically excluded  is also 
fundamentally rooted in whether the problems he was experiencing with his car were faults 
or not. As mentioned above, Mr H was aware the policy only covered him for faults and has 
accepted this. The root of this issue is whether or not the problems were faults, and as 
explained, this dispute doesnt lie with Sytner.
I appreciate Mr H feels he was over assured in respect of the protection the warranty would 
offer him. But I think fundamentally he knew the warranty would cover him for faults with the 
car. And that is what the warranty covers him for and how it was presented to him.
I find it likely in this case, that if the manufacturer acknowledged there was an issue with the 
car, the warranty would likely have paid out on Mr Hs claim. And had the warranty paid out, 
Mr H wouldnt think the warranty was mis-sold.
On that basis, I dont think he was mis-sold this warranty.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman