DRN-2345550
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, recorded a 
default on his credit file regarding a personal loan.
What happened
Mr S had a personal loan with Tesco Bank with monthly repayments of approximately £150.
In June 2019 the scheduled loan repayment was not paid. Tesco Bank attempted to contact 
Mr S but were unable to do so. Following this, the July 2019 scheduled payment also wasnt 
made. This meant the loan was now approximately £300 in arrears. Tesco Bank continued 
to try and contact Mr S but remained unable to do so.
In early August 2019 Mr S contacted Tesco Bank and advised that he would clear the 
outstanding arrears on 11 August 2019 and that following this the repayments would be 
made as scheduled moving forwards.
Mr S didnt clear the arrears on 11 August 2019, but the scheduled August payment was 
made, so the account remained approximately £300 in arrears.
In September 2019 Tesco Bank sent a default notice to Mr S advising that the outstanding 
arrears needed to be paid by 10 October 2019 and outlining the potential consequences of 
non-payment, including that a default might be applied to Mr Ss credit file.
Later that month, the loan repayment for September wasnt made when scheduled, but Mr S 
made a payment equal to the monthly payment amount a few days later.
Mr S did not make the arrears payment required by the default notice by 10 October 2019 
and he also didnt contact Tesco Bank by that date to make an alternative arrangement. So, 
Tesco Bank recorded a default on Mr Ss credit file and terminated the credit agreement.
Mr S wasnt happy that Tesco Bank had acted in this manner and so he raised a complaint 
with them. Tesco Bank reviewed the matter, but they didnt feel that they had acted 
inappropriately, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied and so he referred the issue to our service. One of our 
investigators reviewed the case but they also didnt feel that Tesco Bank had done anything 
wrong, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint either.
Mr S didnt agree with the view put forward by our investigator, and so the matter was 
escalated to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr S feels strongly about this issue, and I understand it must be frustrating that 
a default was recorded on his credit file by Tesco Bank, especially considering that Mr S was 
able to pay off the remaining balance on the loan in a reasonably short amount of time after 
the default was applied.
But the question I have to ask is whether Tesco Bank acted unfairly or inappropriately in how 
they dealt with this situation, including recording a default on Mr Ss credit file, given the 
circumstances surrounding the account.
When a customer goes into arrears, business should attempt to contact the customer to 
alert them to the fact that a scheduled payment has been missed and to inform the customer 
of the potential consequences, if the arrears on the account are not cleared in good time. 
And I can see that Tesco Bank did that here, writing to Mr S on several occasions.
It is also clear that Mr S was aware of the arrears on the account, and he contacted Tesco 
Bank in August 2019 and advised that he would make a repayment to clear the outstanding 
arrears within that month. But Mr S didnt make the payment to clear the arrears as he said 
he would, and he also didnt contact Tesco Bank after not making that payment to arrange 
an alternative repayment plan.
So, given that the arrears remained outstanding for several months, I dont feel that it was 
unreasonable for Tesco Bank to have concerns over the prospect of the arrears being repaid 
and to issue a default notice to Mr S as they did. I acknowledge that Mr S has said that he 
didnt receive the default notice that Tesco Bank sent. However, I am satisfied that the letter 
was sent to Mr Ss correct address, and when this service asked Tesco Bank about this 
letter we were not informed of any returned post addressed to Mr S that had been received 
by Tesco Bank. 
While I am satisfied that the default notice was sent to the correct address, I appreciate that 
for a number of reasons it may be the case that Mr S may not have seen it. But that doesnt 
impact the validity of the notice, and it remains the case that at the time the default notice 
was sent, Mr S was aware of the outstanding arrears on the loan account and Tesco Banks 
requirement that they be repaid.
So, I cant fairly say that Tesco Bank have done anything wrong here. They were entitled to 
have taken the action they did based on the arrears on the account and the time they hadnt 
been paid for. Ultimately, Mr S didnt make the required payment, and he didnt contact 
Tesco Bank to make a suitable alternative arrangement either, and so I cant say that Tesco 
Bank acted inappropriately in defaulting his account as they did or in reporting this default to 
the credit reference agencies.
It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Tesco Bank to take any further 
action at this time. I know that this wont be the response that Mr S was hoping for, but I 
hope he can understand, based on what I have explained, why I dont feel that Tesco Bank 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
Finally, I note the email correspondence between Mr S and our investigator and have 
considered the points that Mr S raised with our investigator during those emails. But I 
havent needed to address these points in any further detail here as Im satisfied that the 
fundamental premise of this complaint is that Mr S felt that Tesco Bank werent justified in 
defaulting his account as they did. For the reasons I have explained above, Im satisfied that 
they acted fairly in doing so.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman