DRN-3870430
The complaint
Miss D complains that National Westminster Bank Plc werent compassionate when she 
found herself in a vulnerable position and requested a goodwill gesture.
What happened
Miss D has a bank account with NatWest who are aware that she is a vulnerable customer.
Due to direct debits being processed earlier than expected, Miss D had insufficient funds in 
her account, so she called NatWest who arranged a recall. However, as it was a Friday and 
recall processing required one working day Miss D was extremely anxious. This is because 
she would be left in an extremely difficult position over the weekend without gas and 
electricity.
Although NatWest specialist team provided financial support to help Miss D, her complaint is 
about her experience when she initially asked NatWest for help in the form of a small 
goodwill gesture.
Miss D feels NatWest lacked compassion and were unhelpful when she initially called. She 
says this is because of the behaviour of the NatWests call handler who didnt want to help 
her and wouldnt pass her call to his manager. Also, when he transferred her to the specialist 
team the call was disconnected. 
Although NatWest were unsure why the call was disconnected, they paid Miss D £30 
compensation. However, Miss D doesnt think shes been compensated for the distress, 
inconvenience, pain, and the fear caused.
Miss D complained to our service; however, our investigator couldnt see that NatWest had 
acted inappropriately and didnt think compensation was warranted.
As Miss D remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I first listened to the call in which Miss D felt the NatWest call handler displayed bad 
behaviour.
I found that Miss D became distressed when she discovered that the direct debit recall 
action, which she discussed on an earlier call, wouldnt give her the money she required. 
Miss Ds distress then understandably increased when her suggestion to receive a goodwill 
gesture or borrow a small amount of money was declined and the call adviser said his 
manager also wouldnt be able to approve such exceptions. 
So, I can see that this left Miss D feeling vulnerable as she feared she wouldnt be able to 
afford either gas or electricity services for the weekend. And it was at this point Miss D 
accused the call handler of lacking compassion. 
The call handler did explain the reasons neither he nor his manager could assist her. This 
was because Miss D had only recently received a goodwill gesture and NatWests policy 
wouldnt allow another. Also, there was no process or procedure to enable an advance to be 
issued. In addition, he said that he did care and, rather than refusing to connect Miss D to 
his manager, he recommended Miss D speak to the specialist team as they were best 
placed to help her. Miss D appeared to be in agreement.
Having listened to the call, I checked the file and looked at notes on NatWests policy and 
procedures and was able to confirm that the call handler was correct. NatWest had recently 
made a goodwill gesture and there was no procedure to approve or follow up on advances 
even where customers were in a vulnerable position. Instead, NatWest had set up a 
specialist team who could assist vulnerable customers and both consider and manage 
requests for financial support. In addition, I could see evidence that NatWest had previously 
offered Miss D both financial and non-financial support.
So, although I can understand Miss Ds distress and vulnerable position, considering the 
above and the fact there was a specialist team which subsequently did provide Miss D with 
the emergency money she needed, I think the call handlers response and actions were fair 
and reasonable. 
I then looked at the call handlers actions when connecting Miss D to the specialist team. Its 
clear the call handler did brief the specialist team and a representative was ready and willing 
to speak with her. Unfortunately, the call disconnected and its not possible to say what went 
wrong here and, as both parties were clearly eager to speak, I think it most likely that a 
technical fault occurred. 
Although I can see how the disconnection added to Miss Ds distress, Im satisfied that this 
was a technical problem and not because NatWest didnt want to help Miss D. I can see that 
Miss D was soon able to speak to the specialist team who provided her with the support she 
requested. Although its not clear why there was a disconnection, NatWest apologised and 
took responsibility. And I can see a credit for £30 marked with apologies on Miss Ds 
account which I think this is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances.
So, considering the above, I understand Miss Ds distressing situation. However, I havent 
seen anything which suggests NatWest have acted unreasonably or unfairly here and I dont 
think they need to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman