DRN-3170652
Complaint
Miss G says that Santander UK Plc (trading as Santander) incorrectly advised her that she 
would be financially better off as a result of switching her 123 Account to an Everyday 
current account.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Gs concerns. He didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss G unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Miss G says she was persuaded into switching to a free Everyday current account from the 
fee-paying 123 Account she previously had on the basis that it would save her money. I 
dont know what Miss G was told. But it seems to me that the account switch took place after 
Miss G had complained, in August 2019, that Santander had failed to carry out her request 
to switch her account to a free one. So it seems as though the account was switched at            
Miss Gs request and after a complaint, rather than after anything said or done by 
Santander.
In any event, I dont think whether Santander spoke to Miss G before the switch makes too 
much difference here. I say this because even if Miss G was told that the Everyday current 
account was cheaper, this wasnt untrue. Miss G wouldnt have paid any fees or charges on 
this account  as opposed to the £5 a month she was paying for the 123 Account  as long 
as she operated the account within the terms and conditions. So if Miss G was told this 
account would be cheaper for her this wouldnt have been untrue.
The issue here and the reason Miss G was charged, is that Miss G kept attempting to make 
payments when she didnt have sufficient funds in her account. And I think its unlikely     
Miss G would have told Santander she intended to operate her account in such a way. 
Notwithstanding any change in circumstances she might have envisaged. And I cant 
reasonably have expected Santander to conclude that Miss G would run her account in the 
way she did, even if Miss G might have had returned payments in the past.  
So while I dont think that Santander did advise Miss G to switch to the Everyday current 
account, in any event, I dont think that Miss G wouldve been misled if she was told that this 
account was cheaper than the 123 Account she had and which her August 2019 complaint 
suggests she was unhappy with. And this means that I dont think that Santander did 
anything wrong, or that it treated Miss G unfairly.
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Miss Gs 
complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Miss G. But I hope that shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman