DRN-2853051
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled and settled a 
claim he made under this home insurance policy for storm damage. Hes also unhappy with 
the service he received from the surveyor it instructed.
What happened
Mr H held a buildings and contents insurance policy with Lloyds. The policy thats relevant to 
this complaint commenced on 18 May 2020.
On 1 September 2020, Mr H notified Lloyds that water had begun to leak under the roof of 
his porch, which had caused the plaster on the ceiling just above the door in the porch to 
crack. He believed this had been caused by a storm the week before. 
Lloyds instructed a buildings surveyor, who Ill refer to as H within this decision, to inspect 
Mr Hs property to determine the cause of damage. On 7 September 2020, H undertook an 
inspection of Mr Hs home. It identified several maintenance related issues during its visit 
and felt the damage had been caused gradually. It thought that adverse weather had 
highlighted the pre-existing issues with the porch and wrote a report confirming its findings, 
which was dated 17 September 2020. So, it recommended a repudiation of Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H received a copy of Hs report, but he said this was after some delay. When he received 
Hs report, he disputed its content. He said it contained comments that were untrue and 
upsetting. He also stated Hs report included a street view image of a house, which he said 
wasnt his home. He therefore complained to Lloyds.
When Lloyds responded to Mr Hs complaint, it apologised if the wording in the surveyors 
report had upset him. It accepted that the report could have been presented in a more 
customer friendly manner and stated that feedback would be provided to the surveyor about 
the content of the report. It also recognised there had been a delay in Mr H receiving a copy 
of Hs report. To address these service issues, Lloyds paid Mr H £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Lloyds also reassured Mr H that its decision to decline his claim hadnt been based on the 
incorrect image that H had included in its report. Instead, Lloyds explained that its 
repudiation decision had been based on Hs inspection, which showed the damage hadnt 
been caused by a one-off storm event as Mr Hs policy required. It therefore didnt think it 
had made an error in declining Mr Hs claim.
Being dissatisfied with the way in which Lloyds had dealt with his complaint, Mr H referred it 
to our service. An investigator at our service looked into what had happened but didnt 
recommend upholding Mr Hs complaint. They were persuaded, overall, that Lloyds 
repudiation decision had been fair. And they didnt think it needed to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. But Mr H disagreed and requested escalation to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. Ive therefore been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr H and Lloyds have gone to some trouble to provide our service with detailed 
submissions about this complaint. I want to assure them that Ive read everything theyve 
sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this 
decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr H notified Lloyds that his property 
had sustained damage on 1 September 2020. He said this had been caused by a storm the 
previous week. 
Mr Hs policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. 
These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. However, for a claim to be 
successful, Mr H would have to show that the damage hes claiming for was caused by one 
of the perils listed in his policy.
When our service considers a claim for damage caused by a storm, we consider three main 
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive re-assessed Mr Hs complaint, and all the evidence, with these three questions in mind. 
All three questions must be answered affirmatively for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.
When it considered this claim, Lloyds consulted weather records from a weather station 
within the locality of Mr Hs property to verify the prevailing weather conditions at around the 
time the damage occurred. This is what Id expect it to do.
I can see that Lloyds told Mr H it was satisfied there were windspeeds recorded during the 
week before he reported his claim which were consistent with a storm. Ive seen the weather 
recorded and can see that windspeeds of 50 mph were reported on 25 August 2020. While 
Mr Hs policy defines storm as winds reaching at least 55 mph. The wind speeds recorded 
on 25 August exceed what our service would generally consider to constitute a storm. Im 
therefore satisfied I can answer question one affirmatively.
As Ive already explained, even if there was a storm, to uphold a claim for storm damage Id 
have to be persuaded that the damage caused was consistent with what our service would 
normally consider storm damage. Id also be to be satisfied that the storm was the 
main/dominant cause of the damage. 
Ive thought about whether the damage Mr H reported is consistent with damage a storm 
typically causes. In this case he said that the following the storm water began to leak under 
the porch roof. Im satisfied this type of damage is something that could be expected 
following a storm. So, Im able to answer this question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the third question I must address  namely whether the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. 
In this case Lloyds relies on Hs report, which it says shows the damage was caused 
gradually. Mr H has expressed concerns about the competency of the surveyor that attended his home and, as such, he disputes it correctly assessed the cause of damage. However, he 
hasnt obtained or provided our service with a cause of damage report.
Where theres a dispute, as there is here, I must reach a determination based on the 
available evidence as to what I think is most likely to have caused the damage Mr H reported 
to Lloyds.
The content of Hs report and the photographs it took satisfies me that theres evidence of 
age-related wear and tear to Mr Hs porch area. There are cracks to the open porch, which 
appear to be longstanding. I appreciate that Mr H feels that damage was caused by a storm. 
But the photographs show evidence of weathering and deterioration. They support Hs 
opinion that the porch is suffering from age-related wear and tear and has been deteriorating 
for some time. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but Im not satisfied that the damage to his porch was caused by 
a one-off storm event as is required under his policy. While it isnt disputed there was a 
storm, I think the weather conditions highlighted the pre-existing condition of Mr Hs porch 
and caused it to worsen. I dont think the porch would have suffered the damage it did had it 
been in good condition. 
Under the terms of Mr Hs policy, damage thats caused by age related wear and tear is 
specifically excluded. This is in common with most home insurance policies because 
insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen  and something wearing out or requiring 
maintenance isnt unforeseen. As Im satisfied that Lloyds has shown that the damage was 
caused gradually, I cant say it acted unfairly in relying on a wear and tear exclusion clause 
to repudiate Mr Hs claim.
I know Mr H refutes Hs opinion. But H is a recognised organisation that regularly assesses 
property damage on behalf of insurers. And our service thinks its right for an insurer to 
instruct companies with expertise to inspect a customers property to assist it in determining 
the cause of damage. I therefore dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in relying on Hs expertise 
in assessing Mr Hs claim for damage. And while, Mr H wants us to tell Lloyds not to use H in 
the future, its entitled to make a business decision about which organisation it wishes to use 
to assess properties and thats not a decision our service will interfere with.  
I understand that Mr H asked Lloyds to send another surveyor to inspect his home, which it 
declined to arrange. It did, however, ask another surveyor to consider Hs report and the 
photographs it took of Mr Hs home. I think this was reasonable in all the circumstances. And 
I can see the surveyor who gave a second opinion concurred with Hs reported findings.
I recognise that Mr H was upset by the content of Hs report and I can see that feedback was 
provided to the surveyor who wrote the report. I think this was a reasonable approach in the 
circumstances. 
I can also see that Mr H raised concerns about the inclusion of a street view image within 
Hs report, which he said isnt an image of his home. I appreciate that the inclusion of an 
incorrect image is bound to have caused confusion. But I dont think this had any bearing on 
the outcome of Mr Hs claim. I accept Lloyds explanation that its repudiation decision was 
taken based on the photographs H took and its comments about the condition of Mr Hs 
porch.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Lloyds paid Mr H £150 compensation to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience he was caused as a result of the service issues he 
experienced. Im satisfied this amount fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mr H would have 
been caused as a result of what happened. Its in line with awards our service has made in similar circumstances and its what I would have suggested had no offer been made. So, I 
wont be requiring Lloyds to increase the compensation its already offered. 
I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But he hasnt proven that the 
damage was caused by a storm. Im satisfied that Lloyds has dealt with this claim fairly and 
shown that the damage Mr H is claimed for isnt covered under his policy. So, I cant fairly 
ask it to settle his claim. It follows that Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman