DRN-3622742
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt give them access to 
lower interest rates on their mortgage until 2016.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out their mortgage with NatWest in 2003. The mortgage was taken on a
two year fixed rate until August 2005. Mr and Mrs H took out some additional borrowing in
2005 which was also taken on a two year interest rate product. That meant the mortgage
was made up of two sub accounts, one of which reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR)
in 2005, and the other in 2007.
Mr and Mrs H say that they visited the branch on many occasions over the years to review
their mortgage, and were always told they couldnt have access to lower interest rates
unless they switched their mortgage to repayment. Mr and Mrs H say that in 2016, following
a mortgage review, NatWest contacted them and offered to switch the interest rate on the
mortgage to a lower fixed rate. Mr and Mrs H successfully applied for fixed rates in 2016 and
again in 2018.
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs H complained to NatWest. They felt the mortgage had been
mis-sold to them as they were encouraged to take out an interest only mortgage as it was
sold as the best option, but then werent able to take out new interest rates unless they
switched the mortgage to repayment. Theyre also unhappy that as a result of having an
interest only mortgage they were told they werent able to access lower interest rate
products until 2016.
NatWest issued their final response letter to Mr and Mrs H in January 2021 but said the
complaint had been made out of time. Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service, 
but NatWest didnt give us their consent to consider it. I issued a decision which set out 
which parts of this complaint our service had the power to consider. I decided that our 
service could only consider Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that NatWest wouldnt offer them a 
lower interest rate from December 2014 onwards.
Our Investigator considered the part of the complaint that had been made in time, but he 
didnt uphold it. Mr H asked NatWest for some more information in order to support his 
testimony about what had happened over the years. Mr H hasnt provided any further 
information or evidence since that request was made. Both parties have confirmed theyve 
sent us all the information available.
As Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the outcome the Investigator reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The time period I can consider is from December 2014 until Mr and Mrs H successfully 
applied for a new interest rate product in July 2016. Mr H has told us that he had regular 
mortgage reviews with the bank in branch, during which he was told that he couldnt take out 
an interest rate product on the mortgage unless the mortgage was switched to repayment. 
But he hasnt been able to provide any more details about when those conversations took 
place, or further details of the discussions themselves. He has said he had a mortgage 
review in August 2014 but that is outside of the scope of this complaint. He also said he had 
a mortgage review in 2016, but that was what resulted in the new fixed rate being taken.
NatWest have sent us all of the account notes for Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage, and confirmed 
there arent any notes from any meetings in branch during the relevant period. That doesnt 
necessarily mean that there werent any conversations that took place, but it does mean I 
have to weigh up what both sides have told us and decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened based on the balance of probabilities.
NatWest have sent our service information about the interest rates they had available for 
borrowers during 2015 and 2016. I can see there were rates available for borrowers with 
interest only mortgages. NatWest have also told us that Mr and Mrs H would have been able 
to apply for a new rate in a branch, or online. 
Whilst I think its likely Mr and Mrs H did have regular conversations with NatWest about 
their mortgage over the years, Im not persuaded on balance that I have sufficient 
information or evidence to suggest that a conversation did take place between December 
2014 and the review Mr H has referenced from 2016, in which Mr H asked about interest 
rate products and was told he couldnt have one.
I can see there were interest rate products available for Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage during that 
time so I think if they had asked about a new rate, its like they would have been offered one. 
There was no obligation for NatWest to pro-actively reach out to borrowers to let them know 
about other rates that may have been available to them. It was for the borrower to ask if they 
wanted to find out about a lower interest rate. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
its likely that Mr and Mrs H asked NatWest about new rates between December 2014 and 
July 2016. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H were frustrated to learn they could have been paying less on their 
mortgage over the years. But Im not persuaded they didnt get a cheaper deal earlier as a 
result of anything NatWest have done wrong. 
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman