DRN-1711956
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to settle her 
complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold alongside a store 
card account. 
What happened
Mrs D opened her store card account in April 1989 and at the same time bought a PPI 
policy. The final premium for the PPI was added in August 1989, although the account 
remained open.
Mrs D complained the PPI was mis-sold. AXA agreed to uphold the complaint and offered 
compensation to Mrs D. This compensation was made up of a refund of the total PPI 
premiums paid plus any interest they would have caused on the account. AXA also included  
compensatory interest, for any times Mrs D was out of pocket. The total offer was £226.38 
after tax was taken off the compensatory interest. 
Mrs D is not happy with the amount of compensation offered as she thinks it should be 
substantially more. She has provided bank statements showing the payments made to the 
credit card account. She feels the PPI was on the account until at least 2002. 
Mrs D brought her complaint to this service and out adjudicator said what AXA had offered 
was fair. 
Mrs D remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has agreed to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and pay her compensation for the PPI that was 
mis-sold. In this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, but at whether 
what has been offered in compensation is fair. I think it is and I shall explain why.
When looking at calculating compensation for mis-sold PPI I expect a business to work out 
what was paid for the PPI in premiums and as those were added to the account balance, 
what interest was caused by those premiums. Then the business has to work out 
compensatory interest on the amounts the consumer was out of pocket for the PPI costs 
from the date any payments were made to the date of repayment of the costs of the PPI. 
That is what AXA has done in this case. But the issue of concern is how much the actual 
premiums were that Mrs D paid. 
AXA doesnt have full statement records for the account going back to 1989 when it was 
opened. What it does have are some computer records about the account. These show 
some total figures that relate to the account including the total cost of the PPI that was ever 
charged, and that was £2.48. There are other total figures, for example the total purchases, which were over £4,000. This 
was for all Mrs Ds spending and indicates clearly the account was being used for a much 
longer period than the PPI was active and being charged. And I have seen nothing to show 
these total figures are not accurate.
The records also show that the account was applied for and opened in April 1989 and the 
PPI was taken out at the same time. So the first PPI premium would have been charged in 
May1989. The records also show the PPI was cancelled in August 1989. Premiums would 
therefore only have been added for May, June, July and August, and that would only happen 
if there was a balance on the account. 
I have seen no evidence to show that more than £2.48 was charged in premiums whilst the 
PPI was active on the account from April to August 1989. Nor anything to show the PPI was 
charged for longer.
Mrs D has provided copies of her bank statements for some months between 1998 and 
2008. These show the payments being made to her store account each month during this 
period. But AXA hasnt said the account wasnt open or not being used, only that no PPI was 
added after August 1989. 
The statements from Mrs D show the account was active and payments being made. But 
these provide no indication at all as to whether PPI was still active and being added to the 
account when these payments were made. The payments only show what Mrs D paid each 
month to the balance outstanding on her account with no indication as to what spending by 
Mrs D had made up the balance.
Based on all the evidence I have seen I think what AXA has worked out as the 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that AXA France IARD has offered to Mrs D to settle her complaint is fair. So I am not 
upholding this complaint that more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman