DRN-2975494
The complaint
Mr E says Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, has 
treated him unfairly in relation to a fixed sum loan agreement which financed the purchase of 
a car.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr E entered a fixed sum loan agreement to finance the purchase of a 
car. Mr E wasnt present at the purchase, his son was, and his son had been refused the 
credit to purchase the car beforehand. So Mr E entered the finance agreement over the 
phone in order for his son to have the car as he was at the Dealership to collect the car at 
the time.
From the start there were issues with the car and Mr Es son was repeatedly trying to resolve 
the matter. In February 2020 Mr Es son emailed to reject the car and unwind everything that 
had been agreed. But this was unsuccessful. So Mr E complained to Santander.
Santander initially said the Dealership who originally sold the car had agreed to fix it. But 
then the Dealership pointed to unauthorised repairs so it refused to repair the car. Mr E 
unhappy with that brought this complaint to this service. Our Investigator felt Santander 
hadnt treated Mr E unfairly as there wasnt the required relationship in place for Santander 
to be responsible for what happened. Mr E remains unhappy and so this complaint comes to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E took a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Santander to pay the Dealership for the car. 
This means Santander has certain responsibilities to Mr E which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). There is no need for me to 
go into great detail about how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of 
allowing Mr E to hold Santander liable for breaches of contract by the Dealership, or 
misrepresentations made by it in relation to the agreement made. Again without going into a 
large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to 
provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Misrepresentation is when something is 
said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue leading to detriment. Mr E says both 
happened here.
However before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are 
some tests set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Es claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods, the debtor, should have a contractual
relationship with the company who supplied the goods, as well as with the credit provider, 
the creditor. And this is the crux of the complaint here. Mr E says that the DCS relationship is 
in place so Santander can be held liable for any breach of contract by Dealership.
Mr Es son is named on the sales invoice as being the other party to the dealership in the 
sale. Mr Es sons details are provided and where it says buyer sign Mr Es son has signed. 
Mr Es son is also named on the sales invoice for the warranty of the car. Mr E wasnt 
present at the purchase of the car. It is clear that Mr Es son drove the car and was the 
person liaising with the dealership throughout the sale and the initial problems with the car. 
Mr E has also explained that this car purchase wasnt a gift. His son made monthly 
payments to him equal to the finance repayments and Mr E paid Santander for the finance. 
So it is clear to me that although Mr E financed the credit to buy the car he wasnt the 
contracting party to purchase the car. His son was the contracting party to buy the car. So 
there are four parties in this relationship the Debtor (Mr E) the Creditor (Santander) the 
Supplier (the Dealership) and the Purchaser/contracting party (Mr Es son). So Im satisfied 
that this relationship isnt in accordance with the CCA and DCS isnt made out. 
Consequently Santander cant be held liable.
Mr E says this inter-relationship issue is a moot point. I disagree. The problems with the car 
is an issue for the dealership as it sold the car. The only reason Santander is potentially 
liable is due to this legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Mr E and 
his son would have no recourse against Santander at all. So it is key that if I am to hold 
Santander liable the tests required under the Act must be met including DCS. And Im 
satisfied it isnt made out here.
Mr E says hes the owner as hes paying for the car. But he didnt enter the contract to buy 
the car-that was his son. Nor did he drive the car or be present at the purchase and he didnt 
deal with the Dealership when problems first arose. Again that was his son. Mr Es role here 
is that he financed the transaction through his relationship with Santander. But he has no 
contract with the Supplier-the Dealership.
Mr E says the contract has been breached and there is misrepresentation here. But it would 
be unfair for Santander to be held responsible for the problems with this car when the tests 
set out in the legislation arent met. And it only can be held responsible for breaches or 
misrepresentation once the appropriate relationship has been met. And Im satisfied it isnt in 
place here.
So all in all having considered the matter Im not persuaded Santander has treated Mr E 
unfairly. Im not persuaded that Mr E was actually the contracting party. So I dont think 
Santander hasnt done anything wrong here which needs remedy.
I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed with this decision. And not only has Mr E paid a 
substantial sum of money but he now has no recourse against Santander about the car. And 
Id imagine hes possibly incurred other costs as well. So I can well appreciate his 
disappointment at what has happened. But Santander has treated him fairly here as it 
cannot be held responsible for what happened here as DCS is not in place.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman