DRN-2407919
The complaint 
Mr J complains about how TSB Bank plc dealt with his arranged overdraft after it closed his 
current account.  
What happened 
Mr J had a current account, with a £1,000 arranged overdraft, with TSB. TSB said it wrote to 
Mr J on 3 June 2019 and told him it intended to close his account in two months time. The 
account was to be allowed to run as normal until the closure date.
Mr J complained to TSB on 1 July 2019 about its decision to close his account. It responded 
on 3 July 2019 and said its actions were appropriate. It said he had two months from the 
date of this letter to make other banking arrangements as direct debits will be cancelled. It 
advised that the next step was for Mr J to visit his branch to settle any outstanding balance.
TSB closed Mr Js account on 5 August 2019 and his arranged overdraft facility was 
removed. TSB said the debt was passed to its Collections Team to seek repayment of the 
sum outstanding. 
TSB wrote to Mr J on 6 August 2019 and said a payment came out of his account that he 
didnt have enough money to cover and so he was now using an unarranged overdraft. The 
overdraft amount listed on the letter was £991.78. 
TSB wrote to Mr J on 13 August 2019 and said his arranged overdraft limit is £0 and his 
unarranged overdraft balance is £991.78. It asked him to make a payment of the full amount 
as soon as possible, to bring his account up to date. 
TSB wrote to Mr J on 23 August 2019. It said Mr J needed to pay the unarranged overdraft 
balance of £991.78 straightaway. It said Mr Js account is suspended until he pays this 
amount. 
TSB wrote to Mr J on 14 September 2019 and said he hadnt repaid the unarranged 
overdraft amount that it had asked him to repay in August. It said he must now repay the full 
amount owed to it in order to avoid further action. It said if Mr J doesnt repay the amount 
owed within 12 days of the date of the letter, and it has not heard from him, it will take further 
action by transferring his account to a Debt Collection Agency. The balance at that stage 
was £982.19.
Mr J complained to TSB in October 2019 and said while he respects its decision to close his 
account, it shouldnt change the nature of his overdraft from arranged to unarranged, as he 
is being charged significantly more than expected, around £100 per month, after the account 
closure date. Mr J said he doesnt think TSB should change agreed charges as soon as a 
customer gets into financial difficulties. Mr J also said he was told that after the account was 
closed, the money owed would go to the debt collector department. Mr J asked TSB to act 
fairly and give him enough time to arrange further payments while keeping the agreed 
charges on his arranged overdraft. 
Mr J did not receive a response from TSB and complained to this service in December 2019. 
TSB re-opened Mr Js complaint and sent a second final response letter on 10 June 2020. It 
apologised for not responding sooner. It said Mr Js complaint was about the change in his 
£1,000 overdraft facility from arranged to unarranged, which resulted in unexpected charges. 
It said he also complained about not being given options by TSB to repay his debt and this 
was making his financial situation worse. 
TSB did not uphold his complaint. It said the terms and conditions say overdrafts are 
repayable on demand. It also said it had followed the correct procedures when closing his 
account by giving him two months notice and he was given the opportunity to set up a 
repayment plan with its collection team or an outside debt collection agency.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint and didnt uphold it. He said TSBs 
actions were in line with Mr Js agreement with them and so he didnt think theyd acted 
unfairly. He said he hadnt seen any evidence to suggest Mr J wasnt aware of his 
repayment options or that he tried to contact TSB to make repayment arrangements. 
Mr J was unhappy with what our investigator said and so this has come to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 November 2020 and said I intended to uphold this 
complaint. I gave both parties until 2 December 2020 to respond to my provisional findings. 
Mr J did not respond. 
TSB responded and did not agree with my findings. It said where an arranged overdraft 
facility has been withdrawn following notice, and the debt is not repaid following the notice 
period, only an unarranged overdraft can remain. And it said the charges for an unarranged 
overdraft are made clear in its terms and conditions. TSB said its not possible for its terms 
and conditions to allow for every scenario and it would expect a consumer to repay the debt 
when given notice of the closure of the account. 
It said when a debt remains unpaid at account closure date, the account passes to the 
Collections team. And if the debt remains unpaid, it will move to the Debt Recovery team. It 
said there will always be a short period of time before the account is transferred to the debt 
recovery team and during that time it will remain in Collections in an unarranged overdraft. It 
says this is a business decision, not an error.
TSB also re-sent letters it had sent to Mr J at the end of the notice period and said these 
made it clear the overdraft was unarranged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
My understanding of Mr Js complaint is that although he originally complained to TSB back 
in July 2019 about its decision to close his account, he is now not disputing this decision. 
What Mr J is unhappy about is that TSB changed his overdraft from an arranged overdraft to 
an unarranged overdraft, which incurs higher fees, when it closed his account in August 2019. And Mr J said he paid those fees until October 2019, even though he expected the 
account to close in August 2019. 
Although Mr Js not complaining about the closure of his account, for the sake of 
completeness, Ive looked at whether TSB acted fairly and in line with its terms and 
conditions when it closed Mr Js account. The terms and conditions allow TSB to end the 
banking agreement it had with Mr J for any reason and require it to give Mr J two months 
notice before closing his account.  
TSB hasnt been able to provide a copy of the letter it sent to Mr J about the account closure. 
It has instead provided a template of the letter it says it sent to him. And although I havent 
seen a copy of the actual letter, Im satisfied one was sent to Mr J because he complained 
the following month about TSBs decision to close his account. Mr J wouldnt have 
complained, unless hed been informed by TSB of its intention to close his account. So Im 
satisfied TSB gave Mr J the appropriate amount of notice before closing his account. 
Ive then looked at whether TSB acted fairly when it removed Mr Js overdraft facility. I can 
see that its terms and conditions say it can ask consumers to repay overdrafts at any time, 
subject to it providing 30 days notice. 
Looking at the template letter that TSB said it sent Mr J to inform him of the account closure, 
I cant see that he was told in the letter that the overdraft facility would be withdrawn, so the 
required 30 days notice wasnt given at that point. I wouldnt expect Mr J to know that the 
closure of his account would mean the withdrawal of the overdraft facility. I would expect 
TSB to inform him of this clearly within the letter it sent confirming it was closing his account.  
Having said that, when TSB responded to Mr Js complaint in early July 2019 it told him he 
had two months from the date of that letter to make arrangements to sort out any balance on 
his account. So Im satisfied that Mr J was made aware in July 2019 that he would have to 
deal with the balance of his account by the account closure date, which in his case was the 
overdraft. 
However, I cant see that TSBs terms allow it to charge Mr J as if he had an unarranged 
overdraft once his account was closed, when his entire overdraft had been less than £1,000, 
so within the arranged overdraft limits, prior to the account closure. When TSB responded to 
my provisional decision it said Mr J was advised his arranged overdraft facility would be 
withdrawn on 5 August 2019 and there is no other reasonable interpretation of this other 
than the overdraft would be unarranged after this time. But I dont agree that it would be 
reasonable to expect Mr J, a consumer, to make assumptions about what would happen to 
his overdraft. He should be informed of this by TSB, given the ramifications of the change, 
and he wasnt. 
And I cant see that TSB gave Mr J any notice of its intention to charge him more for his 
overdraft once it closed the account. And I would expect it to do this, if it was increasing how 
much it was charging Mr J for the money hes borrowed, using the overdraft facility. When 
TSB responded to my provisional decision, it said Mr J had been sent letters following the 
account closure, letting him know that he was now in an unarranged overdraft. I can see 
those letters were sent. But the issue here is about whether he was given notice. And letters 
sent after the change had already been made are not giving Mr J any notice. So Im satisfied 
that TSB did not act fairly or in line with its own terms when it increased the charges payable 
by Mr J on his overdraft when it closed his account. 
To resolve this, TSB should refund Mr J the difference between the additional unarranged 
overdraft charges and interest he paid from 5 August 2019, which is the date his account was closed and what he should have paid for an arranged overdraft during that period of 
time. Im satisfied TSB should also pay Mr J £50 for the inconvenience this matter caused. 
Mr J mentioned being in financial difficulties and I would expect TSB to deal with this 
sympathetically, if he had informed it that this was the case. But I cant see that Mr J let TSB 
know at any point that he might have been experiencing financial difficulties. So Im not 
going to ask it to do anything further in this regard.
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank Plc to put things right 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman