DRN-1733592
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Allianz Insurance Plc added specific exclusions to her pet insurance 
policy and about its service.
What happened
On 28 May 2019 Mrs H bought pet insurance on-line for her dog. The insurer was Allianz. 
During the application Mrs H was asked about her dogs medical history. She told Allianz 
that her dog had a pollen allergy which she knew wouldnt be covered by insurance, hed 
seen the vet for a strained leg and hed had hydrotherapy which wasnt prescribed by the vet 
or claimed for.
Due to Mrs Hs responses Allianz sent her a letter dated 30 May 2019 asking for her dogs 
full clinical history and suspended the policy. Once it received the clinical information Allianz 
added several specific exclusions to the policy. 
In its final response letter of 17 July 2019 to Mrs Hs complaint Allianz told her it had 
removed the food allergies exclusion. It also said the exclusions for spine, neck and pelvic 
disorders and leg, hip and shoulder disorders might be reviewable once it received some 
further information, which it detailed. The other exclusions remained. 
Allianzs final response letter also acknowledged that its letter of 30 May 2019 could have 
been sent by email rather than post, could have explained why the additional information 
was requested and clarified that the policy start date wouldnt be affected.
Mrs H complained to us. In brief she said:
it was unfair for Allianz to make unilateral changes to the policy contract, which shed 
already accepted and paid for, particularly when shed been honest about her dogs 
pre-existing skin condition and told it she knew the policy wouldnt cover any skin 
condition
Allianz accepted her payment for the policy before asking for further information and 
suspended the policy without making that clear in its 30 May 2019 letter, which 
should have been emailed to her
the exclusions Allianz added to the policy were unfair, greatly reduced the cover 
available and might affect her ability to get insurance elsewhere. Also Allianzs 
communication about the exclusions was poor
Allianz dealt with her complaint inadequately.
Mrs H wanted Allianz to remove all the specific exclusions on the policy apart from skin 
conditions, apologise for its poor service and pay compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
When we asked Allianz for its file to investigate the complaint it reviewed the matter and on 
19 February 2020 it removed the specific exclusions for back, neck, spine and pelvic 
disorders and leg, hip and shoulder disorders. The specific exclusions for interdigital cysts, 
skin and ear disorders remained.
Our investigator said Allianz had fairly added the exclusions that remained but Allianz should 
pay Mrs H £150 compensation for her distress and inconvenience caused by its poor 
service, particularly the inclusion of several incorrect exclusions.
Neither party agreed our investigators recommendation so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. Allianz accepted it should pay some compensation but said £150 was too 
much. Mrs H made various points. Ill focus on her key comments on the main issues in my  
findings below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly uphold this complaint. I have to decide whether Allianz acted fairly and reasonably, 
and I dont think it did. But Im satisfied that the specific exclusions Allianz kept on the policy 
after 19 February 2020 were fair for it to add and keep on the policy and that £150 
compensation for Mrs Hs distress and inconvenience is a reasonable amount. Ill explain 
why.
Allianz sent screenshots of the online sales process, which weve sent to Mrs H. After Mrs H  
answered the medical questions, and before she bought and paid for the policy, Allianzs 
sales process gave her the message that :
We will decide whether any exclusions are necessary for [pet name] based on the 
information you have provided and may ask for further details to be able to set up 
your policy. An exclusion is a condition, group of conditions or event that is usually 
covered under the policy but which is excluded for (pets name) due to their previous 
veterinary history.
So Im satisfied that before Mrs H bought and paid for the policy Allianz had clearly told her 
there was a possibility it would ask for further information and that it could place exclusions 
based on her dogs previous medical history. I dont think Mrs H could reasonably 
understand from the message that any exclusion would just relate to the skin condition shed 
told Allianz about. Allianz was clear about what might happen before the policy terms were 
finalised.
After Mrs H bought the policy she received a welcome email from Allianz. Shes sent us  
wording of the email which isnt worded exactly as the welcome email template Allianz sent 
to us. The wording Mrs  H sent us says:
As you provided information on illness, injury, claims or prior exclusions we may 
require further details before issuing your policy documents and will be in touch 
within 7 working days. Once the information has been reviewed exclusions may be 
placed on your policy (exclusions show any specific illness or injuries that will not be 
covered under the policy for your pet). If exclusions are placed they will be shown on 
your Certificate of Insurance... 
Mrs H says as theres reference to her having disclosed an illness she anticipated skin 
conditions being excluded but the emails wording didnt suggest other exclusions would be applied. She also says the email refers to specific illness or injury but Allianz applied wide-
ranging exclusions.
But I still dont think Mrs H could reasonably understand that any exclusion would just apply 
to a skin condition. Shed also told Allianz about her dogs strained leg, which it would 
reasonably want further information on, and specific illness doesnt necessarily mean just 
one medical condition could be excluded. 
Im satisfied Allianz made it clear to Mrs H that it may need more information before finalising 
the policy terms, issuing the policy document and that exclusions may be placed on the 
policy. It could fairly and reasonably add specific policy medical condition exclusions.
Allianzs 30 May 2019 letter to Mrs H asked for her dogs full clinical history. She says the 
letter wasnt clear that her policy had been suspended, she didnt know until she phoned 
Allianz on 7 June.  
I agree the letter didnt use the word suspended. But it did say unfortunately, we are unable 
to proceed because we require some additional information and I think thats clear enough 
the policy wasnt going to proceed at that time, which was the important issue. The letter 
included Allianzs contact details if Mrs H had any questions.
Mrs H says she only got the letter on 7 June 2019. She doesnt accept that Allianzs letter 
was generated and/or posted on 30 May 2019. Ive seen Allianzs system record and Im 
satisfied the letter was generated on 30 May and would have been posted on or around that 
date, so within the 7 working days Allianz said it would contact Mrs H. 
Mrs H says the letter should have been sent by email. Allianz says its process at that time 
was for such letters to be sent by post. I understand Mrs H wanted the information sooner 
but I dont have statutory authority to require a business to change its business process. As 
Allianz sent the letter in accordance with its procedure at the time it acted reasonably.
However, Allianz acknowledged in its final response letter that it would be possible for  
information to be requested by email. It said its process was being updated so those 
requests could be sent by email. Allianz also accepted it would have been helpful if the letter 
explained why the additional information was needed and confirmed that the policy start date 
wouldnt be affected. So Allianz accepts its customer service around those issues could 
have been better. 
When Allianz got Mrs Hs dogs clinical information it added various specific exclusions and 
this is where I think Allianz gave Mrs H very poor service.
The certificate of insurance sent to Mrs H clearly showed the exclusions that Allianz placed 
on the policy. It didnt need to specifically refer to the exclusions in the covering  letter, as 
Mrs H suggests.
But Allianz accepts it incorrectly placed three sets of specific exclusions on the policy. Ive 
seen no evidence about why it added the food allergies exclusion, which it removed on 
17 July 2019. And Allianz should have removed the exclusions for back, neck, spine and 
pelvic disorders and leg, hip and shoulder disorders much sooner than 19 February 2020 as 
it had the necessary evidence from Mrs Hs vet to do the review. Ive considered the impact 
of Allianzs error on Mrs H below.
Allianz did fairly add the exclusions for interdigital cysts, skin and ear disorders which is in 
line with its underwriting criteria given Mrs Hs dogs medical history. Ive seen Mrs Hs comments around the underwriting criteria. Its for an individual insurer to 
decide the risk it wants to cover given a pets medical history. Our investigator correctly 
explained that underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and an insurer doesnt have to 
send the criteria to Mrs H. Ive seen Allianzs underwriting criteria and Im satisfied that those 
exclusions were placed in line with its underwriting criteria. Allianz acted fairly and 
reasonably in adding and keeping the specific exclusions for interdigital cysts, skin and ear 
disorders on the policy.
Mrs H says Allianz didnt fully respond to all her complaint points in its final response letter. 
Allianz says it understood her main complaint at that time was about issues around its 
30 May 2019 letter. I dont think Allianzs final response not addressing all the issues Mrs H 
wanted it to has disadvantaged her. She was able to complain to us and did so very soon 
after the final response letter. And given the parties positions I think its probable they 
wouldnt have reached an agreement. 
Mrs H told us that she considered Allianzs final response letter misleading because it said 
the complaint had been investigated independently which wasnt correct as the investigator 
was an Allianz employee. I dont consider the letter misleading or poor service. The letter is 
clear that it came from a complaints handler at Allianz, who wouldnt have been the same 
person who handled Mrs Hs policy. Allianz wasnt suggesting its investigation was by an 
independent organisation.
Ive needed to decide the impact of Allianzs poor service on Mrs H. Shes said the unfair 
exclusions on her policy would hinder her ability to get cover for her dog if she cancelled the 
policy midterm and for future cover. But Mrs H didn't cancel the policy or need to look for 
new cover before Allianz removed the incorrect exclusions. And I only consider the actual 
impact, not the hypothetical future impact, of Allianz's actions on Mrs H.
I dont think Mrs H would need to declare exclusions Allianz incorrectly placed on the policy if 
she sought alternative cover for her dog. Even if she did, Ive no evidence that Allianzs error 
has hindered Mrs H getting alternative insurance for her dog.
Its possible that Mrs H may need to declare the exclusions that Im satisfied Allianz fairly 
added to the policy but that would depend on the insurers application process and risk 
assessment. As the exclusions were fair Allianz wouldnt responsible if her future insurance 
is affected. 
Mrs H didnt need to make a claim on the policy while the incorrect exclusions were on the 
policy. Allianz didnt wrongly decline a claim due to the incorrect exclusions. 
However, its clear that the specific exclusions on the policy did cause Mrs H distress and 
inconvenience. She was understandably concerned about the cover the policy gave. 
Although Ive decided Allianz fairly added some of the specific exclusions, Allianz wrongly 
added three sets of exclusions including two sets of wide-ranging exclusions. Those two sets 
remained on the policy for most of the policy period and Allianz should have removed them 
much earlier. 
Putting things right
Allianzs suggested compensation of up to £75 isnt enough to acknowledge Mrs Hs distress 
and inconvenience its poor service caused. It must pay Mrs H £150 compensation.  
My final decisionI partly uphold this complaint.
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mrs H £150 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman