DRN-3616967
The complaint
Mr J complains that BISL Limited mis-sold his motor insurance policy. He expected a 
courtesy car of a similar type to the car he had insured. But when he made a claim due to 
damage caused by a storm, he received a smaller, cheaper model.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr J bought his motor insurance policy online. He made a claim in October 
and expected to be provided with an equivalent car to the one he had insured. He says he 
expected a full-size sedan or limousine. This is important to him due to his physical size and 
because it fits his image. Mr J says he was offered a small three door courtesy car that was 
inadequate for his needs. 
Mr J says his policy terms refer to an alternative hire vehicle that may be equivalent to the 
type of vehicle he had insured. He says he hasnt received the policy document BISL has 
relied on that shows there are different levels of courtesy car cover. If he had received this 
information, he says he wouldnt have agreed to the policy. 
BISL says Mr J was provided with a Motor Welcome Pack via his online account. It says this 
confirms a courtesy car will be provided subject to availability and would be a small 
hatchback with an engine size up to one litre. BISL says a courtesy car was provided whilst 
repairs were carried out to Mr Js car and it can find no calls or documentation confirming the 
courtesy car provided would be like-for-like with his car. 
Mr J wasnt happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says the motor legal protection section of the 
policy may offer a hire vehicle of an equivalent type. But this is where damage is caused by 
a negligent or wilful act by a third party. The damage to Mr Js car was caused by a storm so 
this didnt apply. 
Our investigator says the policy terms were clear that a small hatchback courtesy car would 
be provided. He didnt think BISL had treated Mr J unfairly or that it has mis-sold his policy. 
Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. It has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done I have decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Let me explain.
Mr J obtained his insurance policy online and was provided with relevant documentation via 
an online portal. This wasnt an advised sale and so it was for Mr J to consider whether the 
policy was suitable for his needs. I have considered the policy information to understand 
whether Mr J was in an informed position when he agreed to this cover. 
In its final response to the complaint BISL says that the welcome pack, accessible via Mr Js 
online portal, confirmed that a courtesy car would be provided subject to availability. It says 
the terms explain the car provided would be a small hatchback with an engine size up to one 
litre. 
I can see that page 15 of the Welcome Pack BISL sent to us, dated 13 August 2021, 
includes this information. However, Mr J says the policy documentation he had access to is 
shorter and doesnt mention the courtesy car would be a small hatchback. Hes provided a 
copy of the documentation he accessed via the portal, which is dated 21 August. On the first 
page of the pack it says a courtesy car will be provided. But there is no reference to the type 
of courtesy car that would be supplied.    
In his complaint Mr J refers to the policy terms providing a replacement vehicle that, May be 
an equivalent type to your own. 
Ive read the terms Mr J refers to. These are detailed under the heading, Motor Legal 
Protection Policy. The terms say that in addition to the cover provided by the policy, it may 
be able to offer an alternative hire vehicle of an equivalent type if the damage is caused by, 
the negligent or wilful act of a third party who has the benefit of valid motor insurance. 
Mr J confirms that the damage to his car was caused by a storm. Its not been shown that a 
third party acted negligently or is otherwise responsible for the damage. So, I dont think an 
alternative hire vehicle couldve been provided under the motor legal protection cover of Mr 
Js policy.
Ive thought about Mr Js comments that the terms BISL highlighted in its complaint response 
arent included in the information he had access to via the portal. Hes sent a video showing 
him accessing the portal and opening the welcome pack to show what this says. From the 
video its clear the policy document is the shorter version that doesnt include reference to the 
type of courtesy car. 
We asked BISL why there appears to be a discrepancy with the policy information Mr J had 
access to and that it has referred to. BISL says Mr J had access to the portal on 13 August 
2021, which is the date on which it sent the welcome pack with the full terms and conditions. 
It says some changes were subsequently made to the policy, and the shorter version of the 
terms were provided later. 
BISL says a full set of policy terms and conditions should be available to view or download 
during the life of the policy. It has sent a screen shot of its online portal that includes a 
current and a previous tab. BISL says the full terms should be accessible using the 
previous tab.
From the video Mr J sent in, he clicks of the policy document under the current tab, which 
my be why he couldnt see the terms relating to the type of courtesy car.  
Having considered this point, I think its probable that the full terms were provided when the 
policy was first set up, and this was accessible via the online portal.   
However, if Mr J didnt have sight of the full terms - there was still nothing in the information 
he read to say hed receive an equivalent car to that he had insured. I note his comments 
that it was important to him to have an equivalent car because of his physical size and so 
that the car fits with his image. He says an equivalent car to his would be a full-sized sedan 
or limousine. 
I understand Mr J was frustrated when a small hatchback was provided as his courtesy car. In his complaint he says he wouldnt have entered into this contract had he known the policy 
didnt provide an equivalent car to his. However, as this was an important factor in Mr Js 
decision making, Id expect him to check his policy terms to confirm the type of courtesy car 
hed receive. 
I havent seen evidence to show Mr J made his requirements for a courtesy car known to 
BISL, or that he was told he would receive an equivalent to the car he was insuring. And as 
above there is no reference in the policy terms to say he would be provided with an 
equivalent car in the event of a claim. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think BISL treated Mr J unfairly in relation to how the 
policy was sold, the information provided to him or for the courtesy car that was provided. 
So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve his complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman