DRN-2920136
The complaint
Mr M complains that Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) provided misleading information on their 
website, which caused Mr M financial loss.
What happened
Mr M had a trading account with Plus500. In May 2020, Mr M began using the trailing stop 
loss function. Mr M says the stop loss incorrectly triggered, resulting in some contracts 
closing prematurely. On another occasion a stop loss order triggered below the rate he had 
set. Mr M says he has sustained financial loss as a result of these errors, for which he seeks 
compensation.
Plus500 say that the trailing stop rate was set by Mr M whereby he selected to change a 
specified number of price interest points (pips). Having reviewed the account, Plus500 
confirmed that on each occasion the stops were placed in line with the rates set by Mr M. 
Under the terms of the account, a stop activated when that rate was reached or surpassed. If 
the rate surpassed the stop rate, the stop function would trigger at the next available rate, so 
the exact rate set was not guaranteed. This slippage was also possible when stop loss 
orders were placed. Plus500 say that the stops were activated in line with these terms and 
they used live price data, which was preferable to the market.   
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought Mr M had misunderstood how to set 
the trailing stop rate using pips. Looking at the screenshots, which showed the information 
available to Mr M at the time, it appeared he thought the money value under the pips 
displayed the change in price of the instruments whereas it was actually showing the loss in 
the accounts equity if the trailing stop was triggered.
When opening the account, Mr M had been warned about the complexity of trading in 
contracts for difference (CFDs) and confirmed that he had the necessary knowledge and 
experience to use the account. Plus500 had also provided a demonstration on how to set the 
trailing stop loss order. On balance, our investigator thought that Plus500 had done enough 
to explain how the trailing stop loss function worked and took into account the experience Mr 
M had said he had. As this was an execution only account, it was then for Mr M to make 
decisions as to how to execute his trades and it had been open to him to convert the pips 
into the price. Our investigator also explained that Plus500 used live data so the share price 
figures relied upon by Mr M in his complaint were misleading. The stop loss applied by Mr M 
had been triggered at the closest rate available to that set by Mr M, in line with the terms and 
conditions for the account. Our investigator concluded that Plus500 hadnt done anything 
wrong.
Mr M disagrees with the view and maintains that the information provided by Plus500 was 
unclear and misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I think its relevant to note that Plus500 had already established that the 
account was appropriate for Mr M when he made his initial application. Ive seen that Mr M 
confirmed that he had relevant experience to operate the account and in accepting the terms 
of Plus500s user agreement, Mr M confirmed he had a high-risk tolerance. So, I think its 
likely Mr M understood that CFDs are complex instruments. 
Its also common ground that the Plus500 platform provided an execution only service, which 
meant Plus500 didnt provide any advice as to which trades should be placed or when. It 
was for Mr M to decide which trades to place and where to set any stop losses.
Mr M has explained that when he set the trailing stop loss orders, he had assumed a trigger 
price had been set. Im sorry to say that Mr M was mistaken. Its clear that Mr M set the 
trailing stop loss orders using pips. I think its helpful to explain that pips are a standard unit 
used to measure change in foreign exchange markets and are commonly used. Pips show 
small unit changes by movement to a set decimal place; they do not reflect the actual 
currency price, which needs to be calculated. I think this was clear from the examples given 
on Plus500s website, for example:
Pip Examples:
The price of GBP/USD is 1.42630/1.42650 (Sell/Buy). If the price of the GBP/USD moves to 
1.42670/1.42690, this is a movement of 0.00040 or 40 pips.
The price of Germany 30 is 12373.58/12374.43 (sell/Buy). If the price of Germany 30 moves 
to 12373.88/12374.73, this is a movement of 0.30 or 30 pips.
As our investigator has explained, Mr M appears to have misunderstood the example shown 
on Plus500s website and interpreted the monetary value shown under the selection box as 
the price of the decrease in shares, rather than the loss in the account if the stop was 
triggered.
I appreciate that Mr M made a genuine mistake here, but theres nothing to show that this 
was down to any shortcomings by Plus500. Mr M held himself out as having appropriate 
knowledge to use the platform and Plus500 provided information as to how the stops 
worked. On balance, I am satisfied that Plus500 actioned the trailing stop losses set by Mr M 
when they were triggered, in line with the terms of the account. Under the terms of the 
account, the stop activated when that rate was reached or surpassed. If the rate surpassed 
the stop rate, the stop function would trigger at the next available rate, so the exact rate set 
was not guaranteed. This slippage was also possible when stop loss orders were placed.
Mr M has also raised concerns about the pricing information relied upon by Plus500. But Ive 
seen that Plus500 used live data to calculate the share price, which explains why the figures 
Mr M relies upon are different. Im satisfied that Plus500 explained in their terms that prices 
displayed on the platform were taken from various sources so might not match prices seen 
on the relevant Exchanges. Plus500 have also confirmed that the prices they offered at the 
relevant time, favoured Mr M. So, on balance, I cant fairly say that Plus500 have done 
anything wrong here. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but for the reasons given Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman