DRN-3339916
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded him after he was the victim of a 
scam and lost a total of £44,000. 
He also complains that he didnt take out a loan of £25,000, which was used to fund some of 
the disputed payments out of his account, but the bank has held him responsible for it.
What happened
Mr C disputes payments out of his account which were sent to an online cryptocurrency 
wallet in his name. He says fraudsters gained access to his computer and made the 
transfers without his authority. He says fraudsters then took control of the cryptocurrency 
wallet and transferred the funds on from there.
There were three payments out of Mr Cs HSBC account, totalling £44,000. They were 
auhtorised over the course of 16 and 17 March 2020. Some of those payments were made 
using money transferred from Mr Cs savings account. But a loan was also applied for  
which Mr C has said wasnt him  and the £25,000 proceeds were also sent to the crypto 
wallet. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Cs complaint and didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He noted there were several significant inconsistencies between what Mr C had said 
had happened and what the available evidence showed. The key points were:
Mr C told our service that all the scam and all related account activity took place on 
16 March 2020, but the evidence clearly showed that wasnt the case. There were 
payments out of Mr Cs account which he said were fraudulent on both 16 and 
17 March 2020. The loan Mr C was disputing was applied for on 17 March 2020 too.
Mr C had said that his laptop had been hacked but the payments had been 
authorised through use of his mobile phone for which there was no point of 
compromise.
The investigator could see Mr C had logged onto his mobile banking whilst the 
transactions were happening and just after the loan funds credited his account. But 
Mr C hadnt reported anything at the time, not doing so until 18 March 2020.
The investigator said that because there were significant inconsistencies, he couldnt fairly 
assess what might have happened over 16 and 17 March 2020. And so he concluded there 
was evidence to suggest HSBC had done anything wrong in holding Mr C responsible for all 
the disputed activity.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings and said hed set out clearly what had 
happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When this service considers a complaint, we expect all parties to give an accurate and 
honest account of what has happened, so that we might fairly and reasonably determine the 
outcome. Im not persuaded Mr C has done so here and to the extent where, like the 
investigator, Im unable to uphold his complaint. Such is the difference in what hes said at 
times, and in such contrast to other available evidence, I can put little faith into his version of 
events. Its not possible to determine what he is saying really happened on 16 and 
17 March 2020.
Mr C has given completely different accounts of the scam he fell victim to. At times hes said 
he was contacted by someone pretending to be from HSBC. Thats mostly been when he 
was discussing the circumstances with the bank. Hes separately said he didnt authorise 
any of the transactions and at other times that he did but was tricked into doing so.
When Mr C brought his complaint to us he said he was contacted by someone posing as a 
trader or broker but who was actually a scammer. They were meant to be helping him gain 
access to cryptocurrency profits hed made in the past. And thats despite saying to us in 
other correspondence that hed had no experience in such trading before he fell victim. 
The significant difference between what hes said to the bank and this service is enough for 
me to say his testimony has become unreliable. But there is more to comment on, and Ill do 
so briefly.
Mr C has been unable or unwilling to explain why he said all the scam activity 
occurred on 16 March 2020 when it clearly took place over two days. Hes also not 
explained why, despite saying he could see what was happening, he didnt report the 
circumstances until 18 March 2020. 
It is also true that Mr C was logging on to his mobile banking whilst the disputed 
activity was occurring. But again hes provided no explanation for why he said 
nothing to the bank until the day after all payments had been made.
Mr C was contacted by the bank about some of the payments going out of his 
account at the time they were being made. He confirmed they were genuine and that 
he was making them. But that is then entirely at odds with what he later told the bank 
and this service. I can see no reasonable explanation for this.
This isnt an exhaustive list of the inconsistencies in Mr Cs version of events, or how the 
other available evidence (beyond what Mr C has said himself) contradicts what hes told us 
and the bank. But as there is no reasonable explanation for any of these points, despite 
being given the opportunity to present one, theres no way I can fairly determine what has 
happened here and there are no grounds on which Mr Cs complaint might be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman