DRN-4066939
The complaint
Ms L complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under a home 
insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L owns a flat in a block. She got in touch with Fairmead after she discovered 
damage to the communal roof following a storm.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to visit the property. They did so but Ms L says 
they didnt inspect the roof damage  they only asked for evidence the roof had been 
maintained recently. Because Ms L didnt provide any such evidence, the loss 
adjuster declined the claim, saying Ms L hadnt met a policy condition.
Ms L didnt think this was fair and complained. She questioned whether meeting the 
condition would have made any difference to the claim given the strength and 
duration of the storm, noting nearby properties suffered similar damage.
Fairmead maintained the claim should be declined. It said the purpose of the 
condition was to ensure it didnt pay claims that had been caused by a lack of 
maintenance, rather than a storm. Fairmead said the roof may not have been 
damaged during the storm if it had been recently maintained.
Ms L referred her complaint to this Service and provided comments from the builder 
who repaired the roof. They said the severity of the storm caused the damage, and it 
would have done so regardless of the condition or age of the roof. Noting the 
damage was localised to the more exposed parts of the roof, the builder said the 
storm would have caused more damage if the roof had been defective.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied it was 
fair for Fairmead to rely on the policy condition to decline the claim given the weather 
conditions at the relevant time and the builders comments. As the roof had already 
been repaired, our investigator asked Fairmead to consider the costs Ms L incurred 
for her share of the work.
Ms L accepted this. Fairmead didnt. It expanded on what it had previously said about 
the purpose of the policy condition, saying the damage may now cost more to repair 
than it would have done had the roof been recently maintained. It also said it had set 
the policy premium on the understanding policy conditions are met. If a claim is paid 
despite a condition not being met, it cant accurately set premiums and manage risk.
Fairmead says it accepts the damage happened due to the storm. Its declined the 
claim by relying on a policy condition which says, in summary, that all flat roofs 
should be inspected and tested at least once every two year period and maintained 
as recommended. Ms L seems to accept she hasnt met this condition. Because of 
that, Fairmead considers its entitled to decline the claim.
However, I think its reasonable to go on to consider whether not meeting the 
condition is material to the claim. That is, whether its led to Fairmead paying a claim 
it wouldnt have done if the condition had been met  or paying more for the claim 
than it would have done if the condition had been met. If Fairmead cant show that 
Ms L not meeting the condition has had a material impact on the claim, Im not 
satisfied it would be reasonable for Fairmead to decline it.
Fairmead seems to accept that its loss adjuster didnt inspect the roof damage. It 
hasnt provided a report or photos to show the condition of the roof or given any 
expert commentary on the damage or its cause(s).
On the other hand, Ms L has provided the comments above from the builder who saw 
and repaired the damage. Their comments about the severity of the storm are 
supported by weather records from the relevant time, which show wind speeds of up 
to 78mph near to the property. Fairmead hasnt challenged these comments.
I agree with Fairmead that with recent maintenance to the roof, it may not have been 
damaged during the storm  or it may have been damaged but cost less to put right. 
So Ms L not meeting the condition may be material to the claim. But Fairmead hasnt 
provided any evidence to show this is likely the case. And given the evidence 
provided by the builder, supported by the weather records, Im not persuaded 
Fairmead has shown that Ms L not meeting the condition has likely had a material 
impact on the claim such that Fairmead has been disadvantaged.
As a result, Im not satisfied it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for 
Fairmead to decline the claim. To put things right, it should accept the claim and go 
on to consider how to settle it fairly, in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to accept the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman