DRN-4023905
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Mr H and Mrs H took out in 2004 with 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). The mortgage was for fifteen years, so expired in 
2019. A two-year extension was granted at that time, and then another one-year extension 
granted in 2021. When the mortgage fell due for repayment in 2022, Mr H and Mrs H asked 
for another extension, as they were still renovating the mortgaged property before putting it 
up for sale. This time, RBS said no. 
The mortgage has now expired, and the debt remains overdue for repayment. Mr H and Mrs 
H complain that this is unfair; theyre also unhappy with RBS communication with therm. 
They find automated messages about the overdue debt to be harassing, and say they face 
difficulties when they try contacting the bank. 
RBS hasnt taken action to recover the overdue debt whilst weve been considering the 
complaint. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr H and Mrs H and RBS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr H and Mrs H being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr H and Mrs Hs mortgage started in 2004 and fell due for repayment in 2019; Mr H and 
Mrs Hs means of repaying was selling the mortgaged property, but they wanted to renovate 
it first. RBS allowed them a two-year grace period to do so, but when that came to an end in 
2021, the mortgage still wasnt repaid, as the renovation work had been delayed by the 
COVID-19 pandemic. RBS agreed another term extension, this time until July 2022. 
However, when that date was reached, the works on the house remained unfinished and 
RBS refused a third term extension. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions on the two heads of complaint.
The decision not to extend the mortgage term for a third time
Mr H and Mrs H have said that they were told an extension would be possible, and that the 
bank then changed its mind after they met with a mortgage advisor. Based on all the 
available evidence, what I think is more likely is that RBS told Mr H and Mrs H they could 
ask for a further extension and it would consider the request on its merits. Thats what Id 
expect the bank to do, but saying it will consider a request isnt the same thing as saying it 
will agree to it.
My starting point here is that Mr H and Mrs H borrowed money from RBS, and under the 
terms of their original agreement with RBS, was due to repay the money in 2019. No-one is 
entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not automatically 
entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must treat 
customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, that means assessing 
it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what mortgage 
regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made 
public.
RBS will only consider granting a term extension where the borrower can evidence a 
suitable repayment strategy for the entire balance. It seems that the only provision Mr H and 
Mrs H have in mind for repaying the full balance, other than re-financing to another lender, is 
the sale of the mortgaged property once it has been refurbished to what they consider a 
satisfactory standard. RBS did allow them a two-year extension after the mortgage expired 
(so, to 2021) to allow them to sell the property and repay the mortgage. In the current 
regulatory climate, thats neither unfair nor unreasonable. 
Then, when the effect of the pandemic meant the works werent finished by the new 
deadline, RBS allowed Mr H and Mrs H another year. Thats what Id have expected it to do, 
given the new rules introduced by the FCA in response to the pandemic. But lenders arent 
required to wait indefinitely to be repaid the money theyve lent. Whilst RBS has continued to 
hold recovery action in abeyance since the complaint came to us in November 2022, it 
doesnt have to and we cant insist that it do so. 
Where someone cannot repay an interest-only mortgage when its due, then wed expect the 
lender to have a conversation with the borrower about their circumstances, and try to work 
out a plan for repaying the mortgage. If that means providing more time, then fairness 
requires a lender to consider doing so. But Mr H and Mrs H arent people who cant repay 
their interest-only mortgage. 
Mr H and Mrs H had the means to repay the mortgage when it was due, by selling the 
mortgaged property. Rather, the available evidence indicates that they wanted to maximise 
the sale price by carrying out refurbishment work first. I understand why theyd want to do 
that but I dont consider it enough of a reason to find that RBS should have been required to 
extend the mortgage term for a third time.
In summary, the decision not to extend the term of the interest-only mortgage for a third time 
was a commercial judgement for RBS to make. The decision wasnt inconsistent with the 
banks lending policy or current regulatory requirements. I fully understand that Mr H and 
Mrs H have found the decision unwelcome, but it wasnt unfair, and that is the test I have to 
apply. Communications
Having no regulatory function means that its not within my remit to tell RBS how it should 
set up and operate its communication channels. RBS preferred channel is by phone, and 
whilst I appreciate that can be frustrating, especially if there are delays and difficulties in 
getting through to the right person. But its not unfair treatment. 
In a final response issued in July 2022, RBS paid Mr H and Mrs H £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by having been kept on hold for a long time whilst trying to 
discuss their plans for repaying the mortgage. That seems a reasonable settlement to me; if 
it hadnt already been paid, I would not have awarded more.
As for the messages Mr H and Mrs H receive from RBS about the overdue mortgage, I 
understand they find them unwelcome, to the point that they fell harassed by them. But 
everything has a context, and there the context is that RBS is required by the regulator to 
maintain contact with borrowers who have not paid back money when due. I dont wish to 
sound unkind but if Mr H and Mrs H dont wish to receive such reminders anymore, the 
obvious remedy is to pay back the money they owe.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mr H and Mrs H. 
Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
they are here. 
But my remit requires me to be objective, impartial, and to decide what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman