DRN-3689354
The complaint
Mr S and Ms V complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly blocked their 
debit card multiple times.
For ease, Ill mainly refer to Mr S in my decision.
What happened
Mr S complained to Halifax as he was unhappy that his debit card was blocked multiple 
times while using it abroad. Mr S says he informed Halifax that hed be in a different country 
for some time so it shouldnt have blocked his card at all. Mr S says he had to pay around 
£300 in call costs because he had to call the bank to have the card blocks lifted. 
Mr S adds that Halifax caused him stress, that at times he couldnt pay for essentials and 
had to transfer money to another one of his accounts so he could make payments. He also 
claims that Halifax would often inform him that the block would be lifted within a certain 
period, but it would be longer before he could complete a transaction successfully. Mr S says 
that the bank shouldve contacted him to check whether a payment was genuine before 
blocking the card.
In its response to Mr S, Halifax said it had applied the card blocks correctly and in line with 
its terms. The bank acknowledged Mr S notification that hed be abroad for some time and 
pointed out that his card could still be compromised. The bank added that it no longer 
reviews such information before a card block is applied. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr S asked this service to get involved. One of our investigators 
decided that Halifax had acted fairly. Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so  although I understand Mr S frustrations  Ive decided that Halifax has 
acted fairly. Ill explain why.
Halifax has a specific set of responsibilities towards its customers  one of which involves it 
taking steps to prevent customers becoming victims of fraud. Halifaxs terms say that the 
bank can stop payments to stop fraud and the bank says its process is there to protect its 
customers. Halifax says it temporarily blocked Mr S card after certain transactions were 
flagged as suspicious. And these blocks could only be lifted after speaking with Mr S. 
Its not for me to decide how Halifax should operate its fraud prevention process. I can only 
make a finding on whether it applied the process fairly. I cant say for certain why specific 
transactions were flagged as suspicious, but it seems to me that the card blocks were 
applied to protect Mr S from suspected fraudulent activity. So I cant conclude that Halifax 
acted unfairly when it applied the card blocks. 
Mr S says he notified Halifax that hed be abroad for some time, so it shouldnt have flagged 
any of the transactions as suspicious. But the bank says it no longer considers such 
information, given theres still a chance Mr S card could be compromised in another country. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to have taken this approach. Fraudsters operate 
in many ways across different countries and its Halifaxs responsibility to do everything it 
can to protect Mr S from becoming a victim of fraud. Although the bank didnt apply card 
blocks during the initial period Mr S said hed be in another country, I dont find it 
unreasonable that Halifax later disregarded this information when dealing with the payments 
that were flagged as suspicious.
Mr S is unhappy that Halifax didnt contact him each time a transaction was flagged as 
suspicious. He says that the bank had sent SMS messages to him in the past to verify 
whether a transaction was genuine. Halifax says it doesnt send an SMS notification in such 
circumstances nor would it contact Mr S itself. The bank says that this is to avoid the risk of 
tipping off a potential fraudster. The bank says Mr S would need to make contact himself if 
hes unable to use his account as expected. I dont think this is unreasonable  the bank has 
no way of knowing for certain whether Mr S debit card has been compromised, nor can it 
determine the extent of potential fraud Mr S may be the victim of. So I can understand why it 
would wait for Mr S to make contact himself before lifting the card block. 
We asked Halifax for its data on all the card blocks it put in place, but it didnt have records 
as far back as the period Mr S was abroad. So its difficult for me to say whether the bank 
lifted each card block in a timely manner  and within the ten minutes Mr S says he was 
advised to wait before attempting to use his card again. Halifax says the removal of any card 
blocks usually comes into effect instantly, but Mr S says he experienced a longer wait time 
than expected. Having listened to all the available calls from around the time, I cant see that 
Mr S was advised to wait ten minutes for a card block to be lifted. And without any records 
from either party, I cant fairly conclude that he had to wait an unreasonable amount of time 
to use his card again after contacting Halifax.
Although I havent seen records for the costs Mr S says he incurred in calling Halifax each 
time his card was blocked  I dont doubt that he wouldve had to pay a fair amount to 
contact Halifax from another country. But I dont think its reasonable to instruct Halifax to 
cover these costs given that, in my opinion, the bank acted fairly when it applied the card 
blocks. As I set out above, Mr S wouldve been expected to call Halifax to arrange removal 
of the card blocks. Im not aware of any other way he couldve contacted Halifax, as it seems 
the bank wouldve needed to have a conversation with him to verify whether the attempted 
payment was genuine. So I wont be asking Halifax to reimburse Mr S for the call costs he 
incurred. 
I note Mr S comments that the situation placed him under stress and that he experienced 
problems trying to purchase everyday essentials. Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr S 
faced each time his card was blocked. But as I said, because I think Halifax applied the card 
blocks fairly, I cant hold it responsible for the problems Mr S faced because of him not being 
able to use his debit card. Mr S says he had to transfer funds to another bank account and 
use the debit card associated with that account - Im pleased to hear he had other means of 
paying for essential items. 
In summary, although I empathise with Mr S for the circumstances he faced whilst in a 
different country, in my opinion, Halifax acted fairly and in line with its terms when it applied 
blocks to Mr S debit card. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman