DRN-2904304
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund all the money it lost to 
a scam.
What happened
In August 2018, C received an enquiry for a parts order from a new company they hadnt 
dealt with before  whom Ill refer to as company A. The part that was being requested 
wasnt a part that C had supplied previously, so C searched online and found a provider  
company B, also someone they hadnt used before. C say that the website for company B 
looked professional, so they completed an enquiry form.
Company B got in touch with C and provided a quote for the part. C then raised an invoice 
which they sent to company A  offering to provide the part and with a price to do so. In this 
case C was acting as a middleman in sourcing a part from company B to provide to 
company A. Company A emailed confirming they accepted the quote, so C contacted 
company B and confirmed their acceptance. Company B sent C an invoice, which C says 
looked professional  and C made payment on 12 August 2019 to company B for just under 
£23,900. The agreement with company A was that they would pay C on delivery of the part.
C says that they waited for delivery of the part, but when it didnt turn up, became suspicious 
and checked with their IT team. After doing some investigation they identified that both 
company A and B were contacting C from the same server and IP address. A scammer was 
operating as both the customer requesting the part, and the supplier who was going to 
provide the part.
C got in touch with HSBC and let them know theyd been the victim of a scam and asked to 
be refunded for the payment. 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It and the receiving bank have agreed that more checks 
couldve been made on the payment so agreed to refund C 66% of their loss being 
£15,899.52. But HSBC held C partially responsible for the loss (the remaining third share), 
saying C didnt exercise due diligence before sending money to a new supplier. HSBC did 
recover £0.56 from the beneficiary account which they refunded to C.  
C wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so they brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Cs complaint and upheld it. They thought HSBC should refund C 
the remaining funds lost to the scam. In summary, the investigator felt that the 
documentation C was provided with looked genuine, and therefore C had a reasonable basis 
for belief in making the payment.
HSBC responded disagreeing with the investigators opinion. They raised a number of points 
which they say show that C didnt do sufficient checks or didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief - including:
How do we know that C followed its normal process and policy in making the 
payment.
Company B is not registered on Companies House and have no reviews or other 
online presence other than their website.
Company Bs name when used in a search engine brings up a website which 
suggests theyre fraudulent.
Company Bs phone number when used in a search engine brings up recent results 
referring to the company as fraudulent.
C shouldve contacted the manufacturer of the part to find out about it.
The contact on the email from company A is not linked to the company.
Why didnt company A source the part directly themselves. 
C didnt independently verify the information they were given by both companys or 
take reasonable steps to establish company B was a genuine organisation.
C was able to investigate the companys and find out that they were linked after they 
became suspicious, why wasnt this done in the first place when they received an 
unsolicited email.
The investigator considered all the points HSBC had made but ultimately felt it didnt change 
their opinion. As HSBC didnt agree with the investigators recommendation the case was 
passed to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one C has been 
a victim of, in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC has argued that 
two exceptions apply in this case  it says that C:
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the
person it was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services
and/or the person or business it was transacting with was legitimate.
did not follow its own internal procedures for approval of payments, and those
procedures would have been effective in preventing the scam.
HSBC has raised a large number of individual specific reasons as to why they dont believe 
C had a reasonable basis to believe the transaction was genuine, and I wont be addressing 
each one individually. In summary all of the points come back to HSBCs position that C 
didnt do sufficient checks or do due diligence before making the payment.Id like to assure HSBC that I have read all their points and carefully considered their 
position. But having done so, I am satisfied that:
 
 Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money C lost. 
Im not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case. 
 In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the remaining 34% 
of the money C lost, less the recovered funds of £0.56. 
 The money was taken from Cs business current account. Its not clear how C 
wouldve used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done, so 
HSBC should also pay interest at the rate of 8% on the money it should have 
refunded as set out below. 
Did C follow its own internal process for approval of the payment?
As set out above, the CRM code does say an exception applies where the Customer is a 
Micro-enterprise (as is the case here) and it did not follow its own internal procedures for 
approval of payments, and those procedures would have been effective in preventing the 
APP scam.
In this case C have told us that their process for making a payment like this is for both 
directors to authorise the payment. Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that C followed that 
process. The fact that C doesnt have a written policy document around their process or 
procedure does not change this. C is a small company and not a large corporate, therefore I 
dont think its unusual for them not to have a formal written policy.
Therefore, I dont think HSBC can fairly rely on this as a reason not to refund C under the 
CRM Code.
Did C have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment?
HSBC have highlighted a number of issues with the invoices and emails that C received 
from both company A and company B  which they say shouldve alerted C to the risk that 
they werent genuine. They feel based on these warning signs C shouldve done further 
checks on both companys, and that had they done so they wouldve realised they were 
potentially the victim of a scam. I disagree with HSBCs position on this and Ill explain why.
C was originally contacted out of the blue by company A asking whether they could supply a 
part. HSBC say this shouldve raised concerns with C. But Cs business entails providing 
parts to other businesses. Theyve said that its not unusual for them to receive unsolicited 
enquiries from a new firm, which is in line with the type of business they operate. 
Also, company A was a clone of a large, well known and legitimate business. The 
documents they provided had the logo of the genuine firm and looked convincingly 
professional. There are no glaringly obvious signs in looking at them that would suggest to 
me that it isnt from the original firm. HSBC say that the procurement officer named as the 
contact is not an employee of the legitimate firm. But I dont think its reasonable to have 
expected C to have gone online to search out the contact information of the genuine 
company and call them to query the legitimacy of the enquiry form. Initially it was only a 
request to see if a part could be supplied, there was no funds changing hands initially and 
nothing that I can see that shouldve concerned or alerted C in the circumstances. So, I dont think that at the point the parts request came in, there was anything that shouldve 
alerted C to the fact they might be at risk of being the victim of a scam or warranted them 
doing checks. 
C said the part being requested wasnt one that they usually supplied so they searched 
online and found company B. And that company Bs website was professional and looked 
genuine. There is a website still running in the same name as company B. Its unclear 
whether C contacted the genuine company or a cloned copy of the company. But the contact 
C received came from the same scammer who sent the parts order enquiry. They provided 
documents that had the genuine companys logo (from the website that is still active) and 
that looked professional. They changed one letter in the email address, so the contact C had 
wasnt with the genuine company. This email address change isnt immediately obvious until 
you start looking for signs that its fraudulent. The missing letter is in the middle of the name 
and is easy to miss. Company B did provide a different phone number than the one on the 
genuine companys website. But the genuine companys website sets out a physical address 
in the UK as well as one abroad. So, I dont think the different phone number is enough that 
C shouldve had concerns. Also, C had contacted company B proactively looking to source a 
part, so they were expecting contact from them.
I think HSBCs expectation that C shouldve done a Companies House check and other 
investigative checks, is unreasonable in this case. C had found the website online and it 
looked legitimate. There wasnt enough that I wouldve expected C to have been concerned 
or wary, whereby I wouldve expected them to do checks.
HSBC also raised a concern about why C used company B and not another company who 
actually produces the part in question. C has said that only company Bs details came up 
when they searched online for the part. Its not clear if that was the case, as a current search 
shows multiple options for sourcing the part. But its likely that the price provided by 
company B wouldve been cheaper than offered by the parts manufacturer, as the scammer 
was providing the quote from company B and had set it up specifically to lure in C. They did 
this because if the part was ordered from a genuine supplier, the scam wouldve fallen apart. 
So, Im not persuaded that it wasnt reasonable for C to have chosen to use company B.
HSBC also felt it unusual that company A, being a large corporate company wasnt sourcing 
the part directly for themselves. But Im not persuaded that is a reasonable assumption to 
make. Often companies outsource pieces of work and I dont think its fair to suggest that C 
shouldve been concerned because company A was contacting them to source a part. C has 
said they wanted to provide the part to company A in the hope that it would generate future 
business - which is reasonable.
I also have to take into consideration, that the part request was for a genuine part that exists 
in the industry that C operates in. And that by the buyer and the seller (company A and 
company B) quoting and accepting the sale and purchase at the prices invoiced, provided 
some legitimacy to the transaction for C. There was nothing to indicate that company A and 
company B were linked and had engineered this scam.
Overall, Im persuaded that the information, documentation and contact that C had gave 
them a reasonable basis for believing the transaction they were entering into with company 
A and company B was legitimate. I think its only with the value of hindsight, that the number of small items become obvious 
and suggest that this was a scam. And that its only on doing further in-depth investigations 
that more concerning information comes to light. Im not persuaded there were enough 
warning signs at the time of the payment, whereby I think C shouldve been concerned or 
done the level of checks that HSBC is suggesting is required under the CRM Code. The 
level of checks I would expect C to complete should be proportionate to any warning signs 
they had and as Ive said I dont think there were clear warning signs as suggested by 
HSBC.
I think HSBC should now fairly and reasonably compensate C by refunding it the remaining 
money it lost as a result of the scam.
  
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided that C ought reasonably to have been fully 
refunded. 
I therefore direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay it:
 
 The remaining 34% of the money it lost  £7,949.20 (this takes into account the funds 
already refunded to C);
 
 Interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly deductible) 
from the date it should have accepted Cs claim under the CRM Code to the date of 
settlement.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C and C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman