DRN-2018779
The complaint
M, a hotel and public house business, has complained about the decision by Society of 
Lloyd's (SoL) to decline its claim under its commercial insurance policy for loss of stock 
following a flood. SoL declined the claim because it said the stock was owned by a third 
party. The building from which M operates is owned by a limited company (which Ill call Z). 
M is represented in its complaint by its owner, Mr C, who is also a director of Z.
What happened
Ms cellar was flooded following heavy rainfall. It made a claim to SoL which arranged for its 
loss adjuster to attend.
The loss adjuster noted the flooding had caused damage, including to the public houses 
stock. It later asked M for further information about its turnover.
In the course of correspondence, the loss adjuster became aware that M had sub-let the 
public house business to another party (a limited company which Ill call S). The damaged 
stock was owned by S.
SoL agreed to pay £6,540 to cover certain damage which the flood had caused. However, it 
wouldnt provide cover for the loss of stock (which M estimated to be £2,415) because it said 
this was owned by S and neither M nor Z had an insurable interest in it.
M complained to SoL about its decision. It said its broker had confirmed that the policy 
covered tenants of the property. It also said it had thrown out the stock in the belief that SoL 
had agreed to provide cover for it.
SoL didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the policy schedule named Mr C, trading as M, 
as the tenant and noted the interest of Z as the owner of the property; the policy cover didnt 
extend to S. It said that it might have been possible for M to have arranged cover for S if it 
had been operating under a contract with either M or Z but it noted that in any case there 
was no evidence of such a contract and that Mr C had informed the loss adjuster there was 
no tenancy agreement. It said the loss in respect of the stock had been suffered by S and 
not by either M or Z which was why no cover was available under the policy. It said it 
couldnt comment on what advice M might have received from its broker. It considered that, 
based on the information its loss adjuster was originally given by M, it was reasonable for the 
loss adjuster to proceed with the claim initially on the assumption that the stock was owned 
by M or Z. It was only later that M clarified otherwise.
M was unhappy with SoLs response. It referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that SoL had acted fairly.
M didnt accept the investigators findings. It continued to argue that the policy should cover 
any tenant of the premises. It said that SoL wouldnt have changed anything on the policy 
even if it had been informed of Ss tenancy.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for material damage, including to stock, as a result of flooding. 
However, the policy states that this cover is for Property belonging to the Insured or for 
which the Insured is responsible. The policy schedule shows that the insured party is Mr C 
trading as M and it further shows Z as having an insured interest as the owners of the 
building. M accepts that the stock was owned by neither it nor Z, but by S. This being the 
case, Im satisfied that SoL acted in accordance with the terms of the policy when it declined 
the claim in respect of the damaged stock. The loss in respect of the stock was suffered by 
S, and not by either M or Z.
M has pointed out that the policy states it provides cover for tenanted public houses. That 
may be the case but the statement of fact states that Mr C, trading as M, was the tenant. 
I note that M has explained it was responsible for the hotel side of the business but had 
allowed S to operate the public house. However, as SoL has explained, if M wanted S to be 
covered under the policy, it needed to inform SoL of this and provide evidence that S was 
operating under a contract with either M or Z. M didnt do this, and indeed there is no 
evidence of a contractual arrangement between S and either M or Z. So I dont consider that 
SoL is liable for Ss losses.
M considered that, even if it had informed SoL of a third partys tenancy, it would have made 
no difference to the policy. However, it has provided no evidence to support this. Im satisfied 
that if SoL agreed to include cover under the policy for another tenant operating the public 
house under a contract with either M or Z this would be reflected in the policy schedule.
M has objected that the loss adjuster led it to believe the claim for loss of stock would be 
covered under the policy and it was on this basis that it threw out the stock. However, the 
loss adjuster reported that when he initially attended the site he was told by Mr C that he 
owned and managed the public house and the income from it fell under Zs accounts. 
I consider it was reasonable for the loss adjuster to assume from this that the stock was 
owned by either M or Z and would therefore be covered under the policy. It was only later, 
when the loss adjuster asked for evidence of the public houses turnover, that M disclosed 
the involvement of S. I dont consider that the loss adjuster was at fault and, in any case, 
I havent seen evidence to show that any of the stock could otherwise have been salvaged 
or that this would have had any financial implications for either M or Z.
In view of the above, Im satisfied that it was fair for SoL to decline Ms claim for loss of 
stock.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C on behalf of 
M to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman