DRN-2378769
The complaint
Ms P complains that Skrill Limited did not tell her that it had increased its fees.
What happened
Ms P has had an account with Skrill for several years. She was used to transactions being 
free, but in 2019 she discovered that Skrill had been charging fees on deposits since 2018. 
She complained that she had not been told that this was going to happen, and that the fees 
do not appear on Skrills website when she checks her daily transactions history  they are 
only shown when she downloads a full statement, which she rarely needs to do. Nor are the 
fees mentioned in the emails which acknowledge the deposits.
Two of our investigators considered this complaint, but they did not uphold it. They said that 
Skrill had sent Ms P an email in August 2018 telling her that the fees would be charged from 
October. Skrills records showed that Ms P had opened this email the next day. The 
investigators recognised that English is not Ms Ps first language, but Skrills terms and 
conditions had said that Skrill would communicate with her in English. There was an option 
to request emails in her own language, but this had not been selected until 2019. The 
investigators also said it was not the role of this service to tell Skrill to change its procedures 
(such as how it displays information on its website). Information about the fees she had been 
charged was available in her full statements, if she checked them.
Ms P said that Skrill had acted dishonestly and unfairly. She asked for an ombudsman to 
consider her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skrills terms and conditions say that it can increase its fees, or charge new fees, after giving 
two months notice in writing. I accept that Skrill sent an email to Ms P on 9 August 2018 
which warned her that fees would be charged on deposits, starting in October. (A fee which 
was charged in July 2018 has since been refunded to her.) She opened that email on 10 
August. I accept that she didnt read it because it was in English, but as I have said, the 
terms and conditions say that Skrill will write to its customers in English. (There is an option 
to select another language, but this had not been selected in 2018.) I therefore find that Skrill 
did tell Ms P that fees would be charged from October.
It is true that the transaction history page on Skrills website does not show the fees, and 
I agree with Ms P that this, if taken on its own, is misleading. One of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Principles of Business is A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of 
its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. But the fees were included in the more detailed Transaction Report, which 
was always available to her (although it has to be downloaded), and Skrill had told Ms P 
about the fees in the August email. So while I can see why Ms P is complaining about the 
website, I think that Skrill did enough to tell her about the fees. I dont agree that Skrill 
deliberately or dishonestly concealed them from her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman