DRN-2689346
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Santander UK Plc told them it was compulsory for them to take 
out life assurance when taking out a mortgage in 1997 and 2003  and didnt make clear 
what product they were taking out. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint, and gave a detailed 
background of the facts. She said that in 1997 Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Abbey 
National (now Santander), and in 2003 due to a transfer of equity, arranged another 
mortgage for Mrs A only. 
Mr and Mrs A initially raised a complaint in 2016 about payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Santanders investigation into that complaint revealed they didnt have PPI and had never 
been sold it  and so their complaint was rejected. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs A raised this complaint about PPI again. Santander confirmed the 
conclusions it had previously reached on this, and so Mr and Mrs A referred their complaint 
to this service. During our investigation of that complaint, it became apparent that while Mr 
and Mrs A had not been sold PPI, they had been sold life assurance. As a result, Santander 
issued a final response on their complaint about that in June 2020. The complaint was again 
referred to this service to consider, and our investigator looked into it. 
She acknowledged why Mr and Mrs A were convinced they had been sold PPI, because the 
policy was called mortgage protection plan. She established that the policies which Mr and 
Mrs A had been sold were in fact decreasing term assurance policies, not PPI. The 
investigator therefore looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint that that they were told these 
policies were compulsory when they were not. 
In looking into their complaint, the investigator acknowledged that there was little information 
given the length of time since the policies were sold. The documents she was able to see 
included:
The mortgage application and offer from 1997  the investigator considered that the 
documents do make clear that contents insurance needed to be taken out with Abbey 
National, but there was no mention of life assurance. She thought that, on balance, if 
there had been a similar condition about life assurance it wouldve been mentioned. 
The 2003 application from Mrs A  the investigator also considered that having life 
assurance wasnt mentioned as one of the conditions of the mortgage. However, 
she did note that the application did contain a warning which said Mrs A was strongly 
advised to consider life assurance cover to protect the loan. Here too the investigator 
thought that if life assurance was a condition of the mortgage, it would have said so. 
On balance the investigator thought it likely Mr and Mrs A had sight of these documents, and 
therefore wouldve seen the conditions attached. She didnt think either set of documents 
indicated life assurance was compulsory. And while she acknowledged that there wouldve 
been conversations between Mr and Mrs A which she was not party to, she thought it was 
more likely than not that those advisers wouldve emphasised what was in the 
documentation. Overall, the investigator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show 
that the policies were sold as compulsory in order to obtain the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator. They said:
They werent sold life assurance  they were sold PPI. Thats why the policy was 
called Mortgage Protection Plan. 
They didnt agree there was sufficient evidence to show that they were sold life 
cover. 
They thought it was unacceptable that Santander now claimed not to have any 
documentation around the sale, when the mortgage was only paid off in 2018.
They confirmed that in their view, they had no option but to take out the policy and 
there was a lack of clarity at the time over what they were being sold. They remained 
convinced the product was mis-sold. 
They confirmed they wouldnt have taken out the policy if they hadnt been told it was 
compulsory. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs A, because I can clearly see this 
complaint has meant a great deal to them. They firmly believe they were mis-sold a financial 
product and are entitled to compensation. 
When looking at complaints, my role is to remain impartial and to consider all the evidence. 
That of course includes Mr and Mrs As testimony  but it also includes the documentary 
evidence available to me. In carrying out this review of the evidence, Im afraid I dont have 
much to add to what the investigator has already said. 
I can confirm that the product Mr and Mrs A were sold was not a PPI policy. I understand 
why they might have thought this, because the policy they were sold was called Mortgage 
Protection Plan. But the name of the product is not the determinative factor here  its what 
the product is designed to do that matters. And as the investigator has explained, the 
product Mr and Mrs A bought was designed to provide a decreasing lump sum, in line with 
the term of the mortgage, when certain conditions materialised  including death and 
terminal illness. 
The schedule Ive seen from 2004 clearly sets out the terms of the policy, including the 
monthly premiums, what it would pay, when and how long it would last. So Im satisfied Mr 
and Mrs A were given all the information Id expect them to have been given in order to know 
what policy they were getting, and what benefit they were receiving in exchange for the 
premiums they were required to pay. 
The decreasing nature of the policy is common when used to protect mortgages  because 
as the mortgage is paid off, the lump sum required to clear the mortgage in the event of 
death or terminal illness is reduced. This means the policy overall can be cheaper than one 
that has a fixed lump sum payment throughout. And I dont agree with Mr and Mrs A that there was no reason why they would take out this 
policy other than being told it was compulsory. Given the size of the mortgage and the time 
left on it, Im not satisfied that this particular policy was inherently unsuitable. And I dont 
consider theres sufficient evidence that this policy has been inherently mis-sold. 
Its also not uncommon for premiums to continue to be taken when the mortgage has been 
repaid early  as was the case here. The term from December 2003 was for 19 years  and 
so premiums wouldve continued to be taken until December 2022, unless Mr and Mrs A 
cancelled them. I understand this happened in March 2020. But it would not have 
automatically happened when they repaid their mortgage upon selling the property in 2018.
The final question is whether Mr and Mrs A were led to believe they had to have this policy in 
order to take out the mortgages in 1993 and 2003. Ive considered their testimony about this 
 and its clear to me that their recollections suggest that this is what they were told. But 
thats only part of the evidence. The documentary evidence, in my view, is persuasive. In my 
experience, where something is a condition of the mortgage itll say so on the paperwork. 
And indeed, as the investigator has pointed out, there were conditions attached to both 
mortgages. 
For example, the 1997 offer document lists a number of conditions  and one of those 
confirms that Mr and Mrs A would maintain their buildings insurance with their existing 
insurer, but move contents insurance to Abbey National. But there was no mention of a 
condition that Mr and Mrs A were required to take out a life assurance policy  and I 
consider that omission significant. Further, the documents in relation to the 2003 mortgage 
also do not make any reference to life assurance being a condition of the mortgage. In the 
document outlining the conditions of that mortgage Mr and Mrs A were simply advised to 
consider taking out life assurance in order to protect the loan. 
For all these reasons, Im not persuaded to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs A  but I hope they can understand the reasons for my decision and 
why I have reached it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman