DRN-3532388
The complaint
Mrs N complains about delays experienced when she notified Creation Financial Services 
Limited (Creation) of her name change and their subsequent decision to cancel her old 
credit card.
What happened
Mrs N has held a credit card account provided by Creation since 2017.
In September 2021, Mrs N contacted Creation using their secure messaging service to notify 
them of a change in her surname. Creation responded by email and requested 
documentation to evidence Mrs Ns new name. Mrs N provided the documentation on the 
same day.
In early October 2021., Mrs N called Creation as she hadnt heard any more from them and 
it didnt appear theyd changed her name. She says Creation asked her to resend the 
documentation theyd asked for. So, Mrs N sent the information again that day.
Mrs N attempted to call Creation again later in October 2021 as she couldnt see the 
changed had been completed. She wasnt able to speak to anyone, so she sent a request 
for someone to call her using their secure messaging service. But Mrs N didnt receive a 
response from Creation.
A week later, Mrs N called Creation again. Creations agent asked Mrs N to email the 
required documentation directly to them. During the call, Creations agent acknowledged 
receipt and confirmed the name change had been completed. The agent also offered to 
issue a replacement card in Mrs Ns new name. But the agent also said Mrs Ns old card 
would be blocked for security purposes.
Mrs N raised a complaint with Creation. She wasnt happy with their repeated failure to 
change her name when requested. She said shed had to contact them on numerous 
occasions to resolve the situation. Mrs N also wasnt happy with Creations decision to block 
her old card. She said she relied on the card for everyday payments and would also miss out 
on reward point associated with her account.
Creation acknowledged Mrs Ns complaint in early November 2021. Despite chasing a 
response, Mrs N didnt receive anything from Creation. So, she decided to refer matters to 
this service. She wanted Creation to explain why thered been delays and to apologise for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. She also thought Creation should pay compensation 
totalling £220 and credit her associated reward account with points to reflect what shed 
missed out on.
Creation wrote to Mrs N in March 2022 in response to her complaint. They said their admin 
team had been overwhelmed with queries and hadnt been able to respond to her concerns. 
They apologised for the delays. Creation confirmed Mrs Ns name had been changed, as 
requested, and apologised for any inconvenience caused due to not being able to use her 
old card. They said her old card must be deactivated before a new card can be issued 
meaning transactions couldnt be made until the new one was received. They paid 
compensation of £20 into Mrs Ns account. Mrs N didnt think Creations offer of 
compensation was enough.
Having considered Mrs Ns complaint, out investigator agreed that Creation hadnt treated 
Mrs N fairly here. He also thought their offer was insufficient and they should pay an 
additional £50 to better reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. But Creation didnt 
respond to our investigators view of Mrs Ns complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ns complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation have confirmed they did receive Mrs Ns original name change request. Theyve 
also accepted that the evidence shows they hadnt responded or acted upon it. Theyve 
confirmed that Mrs N also didnt receive responses to her subsequent enquiries. So, I dont 
propose to expand on the circumstances any further.
Creation have apologised for their failings and explained this was due to the volume of work 
their administrative team were handling at the time. So, Im pleased theyve acknowledged 
this and the impact it had upon Mrs N by awarding compensation.
Mrs N has suggested that compensation of £220 is appropriate to reflect her time and effort 
trying to resolve the situation with Creation. She calculated this amount based upon her 
normal hourly rate of pay. This service doesnt normally make a specific award for 
someones time, or calculate it using a set amount. But in reaching my decision, I will factor 
in the inconvenience Mrs N experienced by having to deal with this matter.
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Mrs N did experience some inconvenience. And I dont think the 
amount offered by Creation fairly reflects that here. However, I think the additional £50 
suggested by our investigator feels fair in these circumstances and better reflects the impact 
they had upon Mrs N.
Creations requirement to deactivate Mrs Ns old card before a new one is issued is their 
process. Theyve explained this is done for security reasons, so I can understand why they 
might do that here. It isnt the role of this service to ask Creation to alter their procedures or 
processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to Mrs N. These aspects 
fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether Creation has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mrs Ns experience with them. And I cant reasonably say that Creations 
reasons for deactivating Mrs Ns old card were unreasonable here. And as its their process, 
it would apply to any of their customers. So, while I appreciate Mrs Ns frustration, I cant 
reasonably say theyve treated Mrs N differently or unfairly. For this reason, it also wouldnt 
be fair to ask Creation to compensate Mrs N for any lost reward earnings.
In summary, I agree Creation failed to act promptly to Mrs Ns request, despite her providing 
the required documentation. So, I will be upholding Mrs Ns complaint and reflecting this in 
my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
I require Creation Financial Services Limited to pay compensation of £50 to Mrs N in 
addition to the £20 theyve already offered and paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman