DRN-3220744
The complaint
Mr G complains that a motorbike acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr G was supplied with a motorbike and entered into a finance agreement with 
MotoNovo.
Mr G experienced issues with the bike. On delivery, he found that the tyre pressure was out 
and the adjusters on the rear wheels were loose. Mr G rectified this himself. In August 2020 
he noticed that the rear wheel was out of alignment and the trim was buckled. He also 
noticed that the front wheel spoke was bent.
The bike was serviced in October 2020. The garage advised Mr G that the nearside lower 
fork yoke was fouling the fuel tank on full left lock, that the front wheel had a bent spoke and 
that the rear wheel was running out of true.
Mr G examined the bike further and found that the top frame was incorrectly fitted causing 
damage to the fuel tank, and the cockpit wasnt aligned properly. Mr G complained to 
MotoNovo asking to reject the bike.
MotoNovo arranged an independent inspection. The engineer found various issues and said 
these were due to wear and tear, and that they wouldnt have been present at the point of 
supply. MotoNovo declined Mr Gs request to reject the bike.
Mr G obtained his own report. This found that the issues werent due to wear and tear and 
said they should have been identified at the pre delivery inspection. The engineer said that 
the issues with the front and rear wheels were manufacturing faults.
MotoNovo asked the first engineer to read the second engineers report and comment. The 
first engineer said there was no evidence that the damage caused by the front forks fouling 
the fuel tank was developing at the point of sale. He said the condition of the rear wheel was 
a manufacturing fault, and that the misalignment may have been caused by securing the 
bike during transport but there was no evidence for this.
MotoNovo said the faults werent present at the point of sale. It said the welding on the rear 
wheel was a manufacturing issue which Mr G should seek to have rectified under warranty.
Mr G wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the second inspection report was more 
persuasive and that it wasnt reasonable to experience so may issues with a  brand new 
bike. The investigator said the bike wasnt of satisfactory quality and recommended that Mr 
G was allowed to reject the bike.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said Mr G had been in possession of the bike for 3 months by the 
time the garage diagnosed the lock stop fouling the fuel tank. It said Mr G hadnt raised a 
complaint until April 2021 and that there could have been damage in the interim period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that a car or bike must 
be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Bikes are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account the age 
and mileage of the  bike and the price paid. I would expect a brand new bike to be of a very 
high standard and free from defects.
Under the legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a  presumption that it 
was present or developing at the point of sale and its generally up to the business to put 
things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful the consumer can reject the bike. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the bike wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Ive reviewed the engineers reports. The first inspection took place in May 2021. The 
engineer found that the nearside front yoke was fouling on the fuel tank and had pushed the 
seam in. He also found that the brake lever was fouling the plastic screen and that the front 
wheel was misaligned. The engineer found that the rear wheel was buckled and had an 
uneven welded joint. He found the offside spoke to be distorted and the front end 
misaligned. In his conclusion, the engineer said the faults would not have been present at 
the point of sale and were due to in use wear and tear. 
The second inspection was caried out shortly after the first. It diagnosed the same issues, 
but the engineer concluded that the issues would have been present at the point of sale and 
should have been identified at the predelivery inspection. The engineer said the faults with 
the front and rear wheels were manufacturing faults.
Ive also considered the review caried out by the first engineer after he had seen the second 
inspection report. He didnt think there was evidence to show that the faults were present at 
the point of sale but agreed that the issue with the back wheel was a manufacturing fault and 
suggested that the distortion and misalignment could have been caused in transit during 
delivery.
Ive also taken into account what the servicing garage said about the issues in October 
2020. It identified that the front fork was fouling the fuel tank, that the front spokes were bent 
and that the rear wheel was misaligned.
The servicing garages diagnostic is important because MotoNovo has said that some of the 
damage could have occurred in the intervening period between October 2020 and May 
2021.Theres no dispute that Mr G used the bike during this time. The mileage increased 
from 751 miles at the time of the service to 1072 miles at the time of the first inspection. Ive 
thought about what MotoNovo has said but I dont think theres any evidence to suggest that 
further damage occurred as a result of Mr G using the bike during this time. The faults 
identified at the service are, in essence, the same as those identified at the first inspection.
Because the faults occurred in the first 6 months, the presumption that they were present at 
the point of supply applies. So, Ive considered the engineering evidence with a view to 
determining whether this evidence rebuts the presumption. On balance, I dont think it does. 
Whilst I acknowledge that the first engineer said the faults were due to wear and tear, he 
doesnt reconcile this with the fact that this is a brand-new bike which had only covered just over 1000 miles at the time of inspection. I dont think a reasonable person would expect 
faults of this type on a brand new bike after such a  short time into the agreement. This leads 
me to question the durability of the bike, which is an aspect of satisfactory quality. So, even if 
the faults werent present at the point of sale, I dont think the bike was durable because it 
was a brand-new bike which developed these faults in the first 6 months.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think the bike was of satisfactory quality  when it was 
supplied. Im persuaded that its more likely that these faults were present or developing at 
the point of sale. Even if Im wrong about that, Im persuaded that the bike wasnt durable 
because it developed faults so early on in the agreement.
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, MotoNovo is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. No 
repairs have been attempted. However, I think MotoNovo had the opportunity to repair 
because the engineer identified a manufacturing fault with the rear wheel and MotoNovo 
didnt do anything. Because of this, I dont think MotoNovo should have a further opportunity 
to repair. Mr G should be allowed to reject the bike.
Mr G hasnt used the bike since April 2021 due to safety concerns. I think these concerns 
are borne out by the faults diagnosed and it was reasonable for Mr G to stop using the bike. I 
dont think its fair to expect Mr G to pay for a bike he cant use so MotoNovo should refund 
monthly payments from April 2021 to the date of settlement. 
Mr G has been caused inconvenience due to being unable to use the bike and having to 
make it available for inspections. Because of this, I think MotoNovo should pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the bike to be collected at no cost to Mr G
Refund the deposit/part exchange allowance of £1000
Refund monthly payments from 20 April 2021 to the date of settlement
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Gs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman