DRN-4058951
The complaint
Mr B who is profess ionally  represented  comp lains that Core  Financia l Services  Ltd 
(Core)  gave  him unsuitable  advice  to transfer out of his Occupational  Pens ion Scheme  
(OPS ) in 2013 . The complaint  also states  that the charges  were  too high and it failed to 
take into account  Mr B's vulnerabil ity and the state  benefits  he was receiv ing.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in my provisional 
decision dated 17 March 2023. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
In August  2013  Mr B met with an adviser  from Core  to discuss  his options  regarding  his OPS . 
The adviser said he had an external  pens ion consultant  who could carry  out a review  and advise 
Mr B on his options.
They  met again  on 2 September  2013  and it was recorded :
"We discussed  (Mr B's) options  and I again  explained  that I could  not provide  advice  on the 
(OPS). "
"(Mr B) wanted  to take advantage  of the free review  via Susan  Fleck  Associates ."
"I explained  the review  system  and the fact that all of (Mr B's) details  including  my file notes  will 
be passed  to Susan  Fleck Associates  in order  for them  to carry  out a review,  I also explained  that 
as (Mr B) would  receive  his report  via the post, any questions  on the advice  received  from Susan  
Fleck  Associates  should  be directed  to them  as I am unable  to give advice  in this area. "
On 12 Septembe r 2013  Susan  Fleck  Associates  sent Mr B a pension  transfer  report   which  
recommended  a transfer.  Within  this it was recommended  Mr B transfer  to an Aviva wrap  as this 
product  had been  previous ly discussed  with Core . Although  it was agreed  for administra tive 
purposes  the initia l trans fer would  be made  into a personal  pens ion and then Core  would  arrange  
the internal  transfer  and investment  of funds .
In November  2013  follow ing the transfer  of the OPS  into the Aviva  Personal  Pension  Mr B met 
with Core  and it was recommended  Mr B transfer  internally  to an Aviva  Wrap  and invest  into a 
portfol io which  Core  felt was suitable  for Mr B as a modera te risk investor .
Mr B also said that Core  failed  to treat him as a vulnerable  client.  Mr B had suffered  an accident  
that caused  him symptoms  such  as loss of memory  and it meant  he wouldn't  work  again .
Furthermore  in 2017  Mr B started  taking  benefits  and complains  that Core  didn't advise  him that 
in doing  so he'd lose out on benefits  he was receiv ing.
Core  responded  to the complaint  in some  detail  and said it wasn't  responsible  for the advice  to 
transfer  his benefits.  That it had treated  Mr B as a vulnerable  client  and that it had told Mr B in 
2017  it was its advice  not to take benefits  at the level  that he wished  to do so. And that it had told 
him, it couldn't  advise  on his benefits  situation  as it didn't  have  authority  to get this informat ion.
Our investigator  looked  into matters  and upheld  the compla int. He said that whilst  Core  didn't 
give the advice  to transfer  Mr B's pension , it did introduce  him to the adviser  that did. And Core  
already  had an investment  strategy  in mind  before  introducing  Mr B to Susan  Fleck  Associates  
for the transfer  advice . He concluded  that the transfer  wouldn't  have  gone  ahead  without  Core 's 
involvement.  And so it should  take responsibility  for this reason  alongs ide the fact that a 
complaint  couldn't  be brought  against  Susan  Fleck  Associates  as it was no longer  trading.
Core  responded  to say it disagreed  and the investigator 's view and reasoning  was not consistent  
with our approach  on other  similar  cases  it had at our service .
What  I've provisionally decided  - and why
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and reasonab le in 
the circumstances  of this complaint.
Having  done  so I've reached  a different  conclusion  to that of our investigator,  I'll explain  why.
I have  considered  everything  that Mr B's representatives  and Core  have  said but I have  not 
covered  every  point  in detail  that has been  raised . This simply  reflects  the informal  nature  of our 
service  and that our role is to get to the heart  of the complaint.
It should  also be noted  that the complaint  points  cover  quite  a period  of time whilst  Core  was 
advising  Mr B. I've considered  the specific  complaint  points  raised,  but I've not carried  out a full 
review  of every  single  piece  of advice  that Core  has given  Mr B nor have  I considered  if Core  met 
all of its responsibilities  to Mr B in terms  of their client  agreement  under  the Platinum  package.  It 
is not my role to carry  out a root and branch  review  of everything  that occurred.  I can only 
consider  as part of this complain t the points  raised  with Core  already .
Are Core  responsible  for the advice  to transfer  out of the OPS?
It is clear  from the evidence  provided  that Core  did not provide  the advice  to transfer  Mr B's OPS  
benefits.  It expla ined to Mr B that it wasn't  able to provide  advice  in this area but that they had 
access  to anothe r firm that could  provide  advice  - Susan  Fleck  Associates  (SFA) . Core  passed  
the information  they had ascertained  in their meetings  with Mr B to SFA who then produced  a 
report  for Mr B.
It recommended  a transfer  and said in its report :
' for the reasons  outlined  in your Current  Situation  and Objectives  a transfer  to a Personal  
Pension  may be appropriate  for the objectives  you have  stated.  If the recommendation  was 
made  on the basis  of a comparison  of retirement  benefits  only I would  not be in a position  to 
recommend  the transfer  ...
I have  carried  out my overall  assessment  of your OPS  and can only recommend  that you 
proceed  with the transfer  once  you have  had time to digest  my findings  and fully understand  the 
risks  involved  and the guarantees  you are forfeiting  ...
I trust that this letter  provides  an accurate  summary  of our discussions , however , should  you 
have  any concerns  or wish to discuss  any of the Issues  raised  in more  detail  please  do not 
hesitate  to contact  me.'
So I think  it's clear  that the advice  in regards  to transferring  his OPS  came  from SFA.  A transfer  
then occurred  to Aviva , and Core  then provided  advice  about  where  the funds  should  be 
invested.
I appreciate  that Mr B is unhappy  that he was advised  to transfer  out of his OPS  scheme,  
however  the firm responsible  for this advice  is SFA. They  had the relevant  permissions  and 
provided  the transfer  analysis,  suitability  report  and formal  recommendations  to Mr B.
I think  it's clear here there  was obviously  an introducer  relationship  between  the parties  - Core  
set this out in its communications  with Mr B. However  this isn't evidence  in my view that Core  
gave  Mr B advice  to transfer.  I appreciate  it had already  discussed  with Mr B an investment  strategy  for his OPS  funds  if transferred , but this was subject  to the result  of the advice  given  by 
SFA, as Core  said it couldn't  advise  him on this aspect.
It was ultimately  SFAs  obligation  to provide  Mr B with independent  and suitable  advice . And if it 
wasn't  suitable  for Mr B to transfer , SFA should  have  clearly  told him so and provided  reasons  
why.  So it wouldn't  be fair to hold Core  responsible  for advice  it did not give.
Mr B's representative  has said that Core  should 've known  the advice  was unsuitable  as the yield  
required  wouldn't  be met, especially   considering  Mr B's moderate  attitude  to risk. And it failed  to 
respond  to Mr B's queries  regarding  the transfer . However, Core  was unable  to advise  on this 
and advice  had already  been  given  by a firm which  held the permissions  to do so. Its advice  was 
only in relation  to the investment  strategy  within  the personal  pension  arrangement.  And as was 
set out by SFA,  any queries  in relation  to the advice  to transfer  ought  to have  been  directed  at 
SFA and not Core.
Was Core's  advice  after the transfer  unsuitable  due to the lack of opportunity  to achieve  the 
critical  yield?
Mr B's representative  has said the advice  given  in November  2013  showed  he was considered  
as a moderate  investor  but it wasn't  explained  this meant  the critical  yield  of over 17% wouldn't  
be achieved.  As returns  would  likely  be between  4 % and 5%. The complaint  goes  onto say Mr B 
will run out of money  before  the end of his life expectancy  which  wouldn't  have  occurred  if he'd 
remained  in the scheme.  However , again  this is in relation  to the transfer  of benefits,  of which  
advice  was given  by SFA and not Core.  And as Core's  advice  was given  after the transfer  had 
taken  place,  I wouldn 't expect  Core  to have  referred  back  to the OPS  scheme.
Core 's Fees
Mr B's representatives  have  complained  about  the fees Core  charged  as they were  significantly  
above  the market  rate. Having  looked  into this, I agree  the fees were  substantial  and above  the 
market  going  rate. However, there  is no regulatory  limit on the amount  that an adviser  can take by 
way of charges  or  fees.
When  we have  a complaint  about  fees, we usually  look first at whether  the charges  were  brought  
to the consumer 's attention.  It won't  usually  be fair to impose  charges  (especially  if they are 
substantial)  which  haven 't been  clearly  communicated . But here, I think  the charges  were  made  
very clear  to Mr B. The fees were  given  as a percentage  and as an estimated  figure . 
Furthermore , the impact  of these  fees were  also shown  in the illustrations  of future  benefits.  Mr B 
signed  to agree  to these  fees. And the fees were  covered  in the suitabili ty reports .
So, I can't say that Mr B wasn't  properly  informed  about  the fees because  of any lack of 
transparency  about  the fees, whether  it was the initia l advice  fee, the ongoing  advice  fee or the 
product  charges,  these  were  all set out.
The service  and payment  agreement  also set out the different  service  levels  for the Navigator  
proposi tion - Platinum,  Gold  and Standard  - and what  each  covered.  The standard  option  for 
example  was significantly  cheaper  than Platinum  but with reduced  offerings  in terms  of services,  
but Mr B chose  to go with the more  expensive  but more  comp lete Platinum  package .
Mr B also would 've had the opportunity  prior to signing  with Core  to look at the rest of the 
marketplace  and what  was being  offered.  For whatever  reason , Mr B chose  to go ahead  with 
Core  and pay for their most  expensive  offering . Because  Core  were  clear  and fair and not 
misleading  in the information  provided  about  their costs , I cannot  say it acted  unreasonably  as 
the rules under  which  it operates  don't  restrict  the amount  that can be charged  for its services . It 
was Mr B's choice  to agree  to their fees and I don't think  he was misled  about  the fees he would  
be charged.
My findings  about  the fees charged  only relate  to level  they were  charged  at, as this was the 
complaint  brought  to Core  and this service .Was the advice  in 2017  to drawdown  Mr B's pension  unsuitable  due to loss of benefits?
Mr B's representat ives say that in 2017  Core  didn't do any analysis  of Mr B's benefits  of 
approximately  £13,000 a year.  It says  Mr B was advised  to withdraw  £17,000  from his pension  a 
year and bearing in mind  the loss of benefits,  Mr B is actually  worse  off for doing  so.
The evidence  from the time shows  that Mr B was in receipt  of Employment  Support  Allowance  of 
£437  a month  and Personal  Independence  Payments  (PIP)  of £691  a month , this makes  up the 
approximate £13,000  a year Mr B's representative  refers  to. However,  Ive researched  these  
payments  and PIP is paid independent  of income  and so I don't think  the increase  in income  
would've  had any effect  on this. ESA,  on the other  hand  was subject  to income,  the first £85 a 
week  was discoun ted but after that, any excess  is halved  and then deducted  from the ESA 
payable. So, Mr B in taking  £17,000  out in income  across  the year would  equate  to approximately  
£326  a week,  which  would've  wiped  out any entitlement  to the ESA.
Core  were  aware  of the potential  for income  to affect  his ESA as this was discussed  in a meeting  
when  Mr B was advised  to enter  drawdown  and take his tax-free  cash . But it concluded  this 
wouldn 't be an issue  at this point because  Mr B wasn't  looking  to take any income.
When  Mr B came  to it asking  for advice  as he was looking  to increase  the amount  of money  he 
could  contribute  to the family income , Core  in its fact-find  noted  that he was in receipt  of both PIP 
and ESA. However , it appears  they negated  to look into or consider  the effect  taking  income  
would  have  on Mr B's benefits.  Given  the fees it was being  paid for advice
and it had been  made  aware  of this potential  issue,  I think  it ought  to have  given  Mr B advice  
taking  into account  his benefits  already  in payment.
Mr B wanted  additional  funds  to meet  a shortfall  in planned  payments  into two separate  joint 
accounts,  one for household  bills and one for holidays  and leisure.  Alongside  his other  costs  it 
was worked  out that he had a £16,000  per annum  shortfall.
At around  the same  time,  Mr B was also advised  by, and paid fees to, Core  to invest
£50,000 worth  of savings  into the same  Aviva  Wrap  that he was also using  to withdraw  his 
income  from. And he incurred  substantial  costs  by the way of payments  to Core  for doing  so. It 
also looks  like this £50,000  came  from the tax-free  cash  that Mr B withdrew  about  10 months  
before  - which  again  came  at substantial  cost to Mr B due to the fees Core  charged  for this 
advice.
Leaving  aside  the fact that I think  Core  ought  to have  questioned  whether  Mr B's income  plans  
were  sensible  and workable  (Mrs B was also a customer  of Core's  and present  in this meeting  
and the income  plans  joint)  - especially  given  10 months  ago it was agreed  after the tax-free  
cash  payment  he wouldn't  need  to take income  as his mortgage  would  be paid off. And their joint 
income  was sufficient  to meet  their ongoing  expenditure.  I think  the advice  was unsuitable  as 
Core  failed  to take into account  the impact  any additional  income  would  have  on Mr B's benefits.  
There  was no discussion  of this. Furthermore  Core  advised  Mr B to withdraw  income,  that would  
affect  his benefits,  to meet  a shortfall,  whilst  at the same  time investing  funds  (and charging  him 
to do so) that could've  helped  meet  that shortfall.
Whilst  Core  was permitted  to charge  at the cost it did and Mr B agreed  to these  costs,  it still has 
to take into account  the principles  of acting  in a client's  best interest.  And Core  in taking  
substantial  fees for (whilst  not considering  key information,  nor giving  best advice)  a withdrawal  
and then again  to re-invest  that same  money  wasn't  acting  in Mr B's best interest.
Core  has said after the advice  and the withdrawal  that Mr B confirmed  he was still in receipt  of 
the ESA.  But I suspect  this was just because  the Department  of Work  and Pensions  simply  
hadn't  caught  up to the fact his income  was in excess  of its eligibility  criteria  at that point.  Mr B's 
representatives  have  confirmed  Mr B later lost his entitlement  to ESA.
Looking  at the impact  this advice  had on Mr B's situation  it appears  that in taking  the£17,000  in income  a year,  his ESA allowance  of approximately  £5,244  would've  been  taken  
away.  After  tax his £17,000  income  withdrawal  would  give him approximately  £15,100  but this 
also came  at the cost of the ESA.
Therefore,  he would  only be about  £10,000  better  off in terms  of income  for his withdrawal  of
£17,000  - and his pension  would  be reduced  by this amount  and any potential  growth  on these  
funds  would  be lost as well.
I've considered  what  Mr B could've  done  at the time compared  to Core's  advice,  I think  Mr B 
could've  withdrawn  about  £4,400  a year without  his ESA being  reduced,  this is £85 a week  for a 
year.  So instead  of £10,000  in his pocket  at a cost of £17,000  being  withdrawn  from his pension,  
he could've  had almost  £10,000  at a cost of £4,400  from his pension  - with the £5,244  from  his 
ESA  still in place.
I think  a fair and reasonable  solution  to this is Core  should  compare  the difference  between  the 
amount  actually  withdrawn  (the £17,000  a year paid monthly)  and the amount  Mr B could've  
withdrawn  without  reducing  his ESA benefits  (£4,400).  The difference  represents  money  Mr B 
could've  had in his pocket  from his pension  at a later date once  withdrawn  and so interest  should  
be paid to date at 8% simple  for the loss of use of this money.
Core  should  also refund  any fees taken  between  April and September  of 2017,  both initial  and 
ongoing,  with 8% simple  interest  added  (as these  were  taken  from the pension  value).  This 
includes  the advice  given  for the income  withdrawal  of £17,000  and the advice  to Mr B to make  
the £50,000  investment  into the General  Investment  account.
However,  the period  for which  to calculate  the loss in terms  of withdrawal  amounts  should  be 
capped  when  Mr B decided  against  advice  to make  further  substantial  withdrawals.
I say this because  in September  2017  Mr B emailed  Core  to say that he wished  to increase  his 
income  from his pension.  Core  responded  to say (as it set out in its final response):
"As discussed  the pension  fund available  to you is, under  flexible  drawdown,  available  to you as 
and when  you want  however  as your /FA I believe  that it is my responsibility  to advise  you in a 
way that I believe  best for you and your family  over the longer  term.  A pension  fund is designed  
and in my opinion  should  be used  to provide  an income  for your lifetime,  based  upon  the fact that 
you are only 56 years  old your pension  should  be assumed  to last you until at least  age 85 and 
as such  provide  you with an income  over and above  your state  pension  when  received  ...
Another  benefit  of the pension  is that should  you die before  the age of 75 H (Wife)  would  receive  
the balance  of your pension  fund as a tax free lump  sum which  would  allow  her the funds  to 
replace  the income  lost, different  tax implications  apply  after age 75 but H (Wife)  would  still 
benefit  .. .
Whilst  I fully understand  your wish to increase  your income  and understand  your reasons  for 
wanting  to do so I feel that on this occasion  I would  have  to recommend  that you reconsider  your 
intentions  as in my opinion  to use your entire  pension  fund over a period  of 7 years  on the basis  
that you will be able to replace  the funds  used  from a compensation  payment  is too much  of a 
risk to take and as such  I cannot  recommend  that you proceed.  Despite  my recommendation  not 
to proceed  the pension  fund available  is yours  to decide  what  to do with and if you do wish to 
proceed  I would  be grateful  if you would  please  let me know  in writing  how you wish to proceed."
Mr B in response  said:
"For reasons  of my acquired  cognitive  disability  I my condition  since  2010  and as confirmed  by 
many  medical  assessments,  reports,  experts  includes  my difficulty  to quantify  I understand  
financial  and other  daily  living  activities.
I continue  to take appropriate  medication  as prescribed  by my GP. My £17,000  agreed  gross  I 
post tax Aviva  income  I yr+ my additional  £25K  spend  (£42K  total).  This additional  amount  in my view,  is needed  to help prevent  unwanted  I unsupportive,  uncaring  comments  that I have  
documented  many  times  in my cries  for help from about  2013  and for several  years  since.
The figure  you attached  I provided,  showed  my increased  annual  spend  amount  of £49k.
I agree,  based  on reasonable  assumptions  you make,  spending  this additional  amount  for a 
period  of about  7 yrs (does  not include  PA I treatment  I counselling  I disability  I recovery  costs  
etc) or so, will eventually  mean  my pension  will be exhausted  before  I reach  pension  age. I also 
agree,  it will be likely,  I will have  to continue  to work  hard,  be proactive,  continue  to seek  support,  
justice  that has involved  since  my accident,  taking  mitigating  actions  against  financial  I other  
losses  as well as unmet  needs.
My actions,  include  for example  for more  than 3.5 years,  me writing  and or responding  to nearly  
3,000  legal  I health  I wellbeing  emails  I matters,  with little I no help or support  at home.  Despite  
your good  advice,  due to my mitigation  and trying  my best to avoid  unwanted  comments  and 
for other  reasons  previously  given,  my aim will be to continue  to try and be proactive  and 
spend  my personal  income  on preventative  I recovery  I wellbeing  services  I activities  that I 
feel are necessary,  been  promised  and or documented  and or advised  by significant  others.
This additional  income,  I also intend  to spend  in order  to provide  a home  I standard  of living  
to my children  that I consider  would  have  been  likely,  had I remained  or been  given  
reasonable  adjusted  employment.  I also accept  and agree,  for financial  reasons  you give,  
taking  this action  is a risk, however,  from  my perspective,  not spending  on safeguarding  I 
preventative  I recovery  activities  as mentioned,  based  on my experience,  not spending  this 
amount  as described,  is highly  likely  to result  in me being  subjected  to unwanted  comments  I 
low self esteem,  that I know  triggers  my challenging  behaviour,  makes  me feel bad I ill that I 
have  communicated  to my GP and significant  others.
Tomorrow  I have  my regular  weekly  1hr session  with my counsellor  and hope  to be able to 
mention  I communicate  some  of my anxieties  I mention  here.  If ok, I will finally  let you know  
my decision  when  I have  had some  time to think  over the weekend  and get back  to you by 
early  next week  at the latest."
And then a week  later Mr B emailed  to say:
"I fully understand  the risk involved  taking  this approach,  that is likely  to result  in overspend  
before  me reaching  pension  age. However,  for reason  given,  I feel this is a risk worth  taking  
and given  continued  advice  /support  from  (adviser),  and others,  my hope  is that any health  
detriment  to myself  may be reduced  but will have  to wait and see."
It's clear  that Mr B's situation  at the time was complicated  and I'm sorry  to hear  of the 
struggles  he's faced.  But based  on the evidence  I've seen,  I think  its likely  he would've  gone  
ahead  with his plans  to take more  income  regardless  of what  Core  said at this point.  As it 
was,  it looks  like there  had been  some  conversations  about  his ESA  allowance  prior  to this 
second  withdrawal.  And whilst  Core  should've  done  more  to discuss  this with Mr B, I think  Mr 
B was set on withdrawing  income  at the level  he did regardless.  As an aside,  I think  the 
earlier  withdrawal  had already  extinguished  his right to ESA  but the DWP  hadn't  at the time 
stopped  his benefits.
A withdrawal  at the level  of £42,000  per annum  compared  to £17,000  as before,  means  that 
the loss of £5,200  a year in ESA  benefits  is much  less significant.  I think  Mr B's perceived  
requirement  for income  well above  what  he was receiving  in ESA  would've  meant  he 
would've  gone  ahead  with his plans  regardless  of what  Core  had said at this point  in terms  of 
his benefits  in payment.
So I think  at this point  the impact  of Core's  unsuitable  advice  prior  would've  ended  because  
Mr B would've  withdrawn  money  that extinguished  his ESA  regardless.
Was  Mr B treated  appropriately  as a vulnerable  client?Mr B's representatives  say Mr B was a vulnerable  person  but Core  didn't  treat  him 
appropriately  in relation  to this. It argues  that some  of the meetings  Mr B attended  on his 
own and documentation  was signed  the same  day, which  is an issue  for Mr B as he has 
difficulty  retaining  and processing  financial  information.  In response,  Core  has said Mrs B 
was present  in all face to face meetings  and it had recorded  Mr B's circumstances  in regard  
to his accident  - and the struggles  this caused  him. Furthermore,  it had recorded  all 
meetings  for Mr B's benefit.
In terms  of our service 's purpose  and getting  to the heart  of the matter , it's not for me to 
investigate  all of Core 's communication  with Mr B and make  a finding  on whether  Core  always  
made  appropr iate adjustments  for Mr B. We cannot  punish  businesses  for poor conduct  or 
instruct  future  changes,  this would  be the role of the regulator.  What's  important  here is 
consider ing whether  the alleged  lack of bespoke  care, would've  made  a difference  to Mr B's 
position.
As I've explained,  I don't think  Core  are responsible  for the advice to transfer  out of his OPS  
(which  represents  the crux of the complaint), but it was responsible  for the information passed to 
SFA.  I can see Mrs B was present  in the fact-finding  meeting.  Mr B's representatives say there 's 
no evidence  Core  told SFA of Mr B's vulnerability  but I can see SFA began  the report  by setting 
out Mr B's circumstances  includ ing his accident  and injury.  And it also said:  'These 
recommendations  are based  on the information  that you have  disclosed  to Core  Financial  
Services.  If you do not feel that this letter  accurately  reflects  your personal  circumstances,  please  
contact  me Immediately.'  So Mr B had the opportunity  to reflect  on the information  in the report  
and if he felt something  was amiss, he could 've raised  this. So I don't think  Core  did anything  
wrong  here in its treatment  of Mr B that influenced  his decision  to transfer.
In subsequent  meetings  and commun ication  where important  decisions  were  made , this came  at 
Mr B's request , usually  via email.  And I can see ment ion of Mr B needing  time and mention  of his 
circumstances  in the responses,  so it does  look like Core  was aware  of his needs . For example  
the telephone  meeting  of 4 September  2017  doesn 't make  any mention  of Mrs B also being  on 
the call - but the adviser  wrote to Mr B by email to confirm  the details of the conversation  - so that 
he had a record . When  Mr B asked  to make  withdrawa ls, the suitability reports  make reference  to 
Mr B's condi tion, previous  face to face meetings  occurr ing and there are records  of other  
communicat ions leading  up to the decisions  being  made . So I don't think  the way Core  treated  
Mr B in terms  of his vulnerabi lity will have  changed  anything . And where  it may have  done , I've 
already  found  that Core 's advice was unsuitab le and its fees should  be refunded .
Conc lusion
I can't  hold Core  responsible  for the advice  to transfer  his OPS  pension  as it did not give that 
advice , another  firm is responsible.  Mr B may be able to raise a claim  against  it with the FSCS.
Core  has charged  at an extremely  high fee rate but it made  Mr B aware  of these  fees and the 
impact  they would  have  and he accepted  them,  so I cannot  make  an award  purely  for them  being  
expensive . However,  I have  identified  a period  where  Core 's advice  was poor and as a 
consequence  I think  the fees for that advice  should  be refunded  with interest.  And had suitable  
advice  been  given  I don't  think  Mr B would've  made  the withdrawals  at the level he did, so the 
losses  that occurred  from this should  also be refunded .
In response  to my provisional  decision,  Core  asked  if I would  reconsider  my position  as 
to when  Mr B wouldve  started  withdrawals  regardless  of its advice.  It says  the advice  in 
February  was following  Mr B meeting  with his councillor  and it was decided  then he 
needed  financial  independence.  So it believes  Mr B wouldve  gone  forward  with his 
plans  regardless  and made  withdrawals  then that wouldve  ended  up with his ESA being  
lost even  if it had advised  him of this.
Mr Bs representatives  in summary  said the following  in response  to the provisional  
decision:Notwithstanding  the assessment  that Core  is not liable  for the advice  given  by 
SFA  Cores  actions  were  a dereliction  of duty to a very vulnerable  client  who 
was recovering  from a severe  injury  which  impacted  his ability  to understand  
financial  matters.
Core  instigated  the idea of transferring  Mr Bs pension.  Had it not been  for Cores  
initial  advice  Mr B wouldnt  have  transferred  his pension.  It shouldve  known  that 
transferring  his OPS  was poor advice  and shouldve  left it where  it was.  By 
referring  Mr B to SFA,  Core  acted  negligently.
The submissions  to SFA were  made  by Core.  Mr B never  met with SFA.  Mr B 
asked  Core  for illustrations  of how the 17.5%  yield  would  be met before  he 
signed  the transfer  papers.  Core  will have  known  that yield  was unachievable.  
Had Core  explained  this, Mr B wouldnt  have  transferred.  It fails to understand  
how Core  did not give advice  regarding  the OPS  transfer  when  it initiated  the 
events.
I appear  to have  overlooked  that SFA concluded  it would  not usually  recommend  
a transfer  but would  recommend  it based  on the submissions  made  by Core  on 
Mr Bs behalf.  This is particularly  relevant  as Mr B never  met with anyone  at SFA 
and the report  was entirely  based  on information  provided  by Core.
With regard  to my findings  regarding  the loss of ESA.  It considers  the fact Mr B 
asked  for further  monies  irrelevant.  As his ESA benefits  were  lost when  Core  
advised  Mr B to go into drawdown  initially.  But for the negligent  advice  Mr B 
would  be receiving  ESA on a yearly  basis  for the rest of his life. Mr B should  have  
redress  for this negligent  advice  to present  day and beyond  and not just until 
September  2017.
Core  didnt  make  Mr B adequately  aware  of their charges.  Putting  charges  in 
percentage  terms  did not provide  Mr B with any real clarity  or understanding  of 
what  the costs  were  in real terms.  Core  due to his vulnerability  should  have  set 
out the costs  in real terms  and figures.  It is firmly  of the belief  that had Core  told 
Mr B it would  be charging  him over £100,000  for their advice  regarding  a original  
pension  pot of £450,000  (including  all the advice  on the transfers)  he would  
never  have  agreed  to proceed  with them.
Mr B cannot  pursue  a claim  against  SFA as they have  been  liquidated.  The 
chance  of FSCS  compensation  remains  open  but this is limited  to £85,000  which  
is substantially  less than his loss.  For the reasons  its set out although  Core  may 
not have  given  the advice  about  transferring  his OPS,  it did act negligently  in 
assisting  Mr B to enable  the transfer  to happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision. The points raised by both parties following my provisional decision, I have largely 
already covered in my provisional findings. However, Ill explain why my decision has not 
changed in a bit more detail below  but my reasoning in the provisional decision stands.
Should Core be held responsible for the transfer of Mr Bs OPSIve already set out in my provisional decision why SFA and not Core are responsible for the 
advice to transfer from the OPS and any losses flowing from that. However I will add that I 
had not overlooked that Core acted as an introducer and initiated the contact between Mr B 
and SFA. It did this as it did not have the relevant permissions to advice on Defined Benefit 
Transfers. The process that took place here is not unusual, it is not unusual for a firm to pass 
over the details collated with a customer to another firm to provide advice on an area they 
cannot advise upon.
The responsibility for suitable advice regarding the pension transfer was on SFA, it was the 
firm with the relevant permissions, and it gave the advice to Mr B. Had it advised Mr B not to 
transfer with all the relevant information set out as to why he shouldnt, then Ive got no 
reason to believe Mr B wouldve still gone ahead with the transfer. However, its 
recommendation which it said was based on the information provided by Core was to 
transfer.
I appreciate Mr B did ask Core about the yield involved and weve no evidence of a 
response. But as I set out in my provisional findings, SFA in its report said any questions 
relating to its advice should be directed at it. Core didnt have the permissions to give Mr B 
advice about the transfer and so it couldnt give him advice on it.
Mr Bs representatives believe Core shouldve stepped in and told Mr B to ignore the advice 
given by SFA. And that as it provided the information for SFA to act upon it is still 
responsible. As Ive said it is not an unusual process for information to be passed to another 
party to complete aspects of advice that the original firm did not have permissions to advise 
on. This is recognised in guidance  for example COBs says on this matter:
COBS 2.4.6(2): A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that 
requires it to obtain information if it can show it was reasonable for it to rely upon information 
provided to it in writing by another person. 
COBS 2.4.8: It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R(2)) for a firm 
to rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a 
professional person, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that 
would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
Core carried out a fact-finding exercise and potential investment advice that could come into 
place if Mr B chose to transfer. I appreciate Mr B was a vulnerable individual due to his 
accident but Mr Bs wife was present and also a client of Core. And Ive not been made 
aware of any information that Core collated and passed to SFA that is disputed. Furthermore 
Mr B, as I set out in my provisional decision was given the opportunity to go back to SFA if 
he felt any of the information within the report was incorrect (which was based on the 
information provided by Core). 
Mr Bs representatives have also said Core initiated the pension advice and is therefore 
negligent. However, I understand it was Mr B who came to Core, referred by his accountant, 
and he came looking for advice on his pension following his redundancy. As Ive said Core 
could not advise Mr B on his OPS, so passed this onto another firm to give this advice  
SFA. I dont think this was negligence, it couldnt give Mr B advice on his OPS. I appreciate 
there is a lot of focus in the industry on the suitability of DB transfers (but not all are 
unsuitable) and given another firm gave the advice I cannot fairly make a finding that Core 
ought to have given advice not to transfer on something it was not regulated to advise upon.
I also understand its very frustrating for Mr B that SFA have been liquidated and so any 
claim against it will be subject to the FSCSs limits. However, I cannot take this into account 
when looking at a complaint against Core. I can only look at the advice Core is responsible for.
The advice given to drawdown Mr Bs pension in 2017 that caused the loss of Mr Bs 
benefits
I set out my reasoning in some detail in my provisional decision as to what I thought 
wouldve happened had Core given suitable advice during this period. And I see no reason 
to change my view of events.
Core has asked that I reconsider whether Mr B wouldve chosen to take his money out in 
February 2017, even if it had told him not to. It says this was as a result of a conversation 
with his councillor and he was determined to take his money out and he wouldve lost his 
ESA in any event. However, I will refer back to my provisional findings, where I explained 
why in terms of the options that were available to him and if Core had given suitable advice 
and looked into his benefit situation properly  how Mr B could make a withdrawal without 
losing his ESA at that point. I agree that Mr B was intent on increasing his income as shown 
by his later disregard of its advice not to take further income. However, as I set out in my 
provisional findings, Core shouldve advised him taking into account his ESA benefits to 
lower the withdrawal amount to achieve a very similar result in terms of income without the 
loss of benefits.
The original complaint related largely to the transfer of the OPS being unsuitable, however I 
considered suitability of advice given in 2017 in relation to Mr Bs loss of benefits as this was 
also raised as part of the original complaint. Mr Bs representatives have said Cores advice 
to drawdown at all was negligent and it was the advice given in February 2017 that caused 
Mr Bs loss of his ESA. So therefore, he should be refunded to date. 
However, I have to consider what wouldve happened if Core had given suitable advice in 
relation to his benefits. And Mr B went against Cores advice in September 2017 when he 
made further substantial withdrawals. So as I explained in my provisional decision in more 
detail, I think Mr B wouldve made these withdrawals regardless of Cores advice due to his 
strongly held belief that he required income to help his independence and recovery. 
Furthermore the fees charged in the period I set out will be refunded in full and receive 
interest to date to compensate Mr B for the loss of use of this money going forward.
Mr Bs representatives also say that as a result of Cores advice Mr Bs pension will be 
extinguished before he reaches his 75th birthday and he wouldve been receiving ESA for 
the rest of his life but for its advice. However, as Ive explained Mr B clearly wished to take 
income and went against Cores advice to do so.  I dont think the quite insignificant amount 
of ESA income compared to the income Mr B felt he required in September 2017 wouldve 
been enough to change his mind given what Core had already said about the risks of taking 
this action.
Cores Fees
Mr Bs representatives say that Mr B wouldnt have accepted the charges if Core had set 
them out as actual amounts and not percentages. And that because of his accident his 
understanding of financial matters wasnt at the standard of your average individual. And so 
he wouldnt have understood the impact of the charges when set out as percentages.
However, the evidence shows Mr Bs wife was present in the first meeting where the initial 
charges were set out and she was also a client of Cores and so wouldve been aware of the 
level of fees it charged. But more importantly, Core did set out its charges as a amounts to 
Mr B. For example in the 2013 advice it said:You were given the option to pay us by fee either direct or via your pension fund. You have 
chosen to pay us by your pension fund, although this means that you pay nothing direct, this 
does not mean our service is free. You still pay us indirectly through product charges. 
Product charges pay for the product provider's own costs and any fees. These charges 
reduce the amount left for investment. For this recommendation, an amount of £29,334.89 
will be deducted from your pension funds and paid to Core Financial Services as a fee. This 
figure can alter depending on the transfer value which is paid to Aviva.
The advice given in 2016 to transfer to drawdown and take tax-free cash said:
You were given the option to pay us by fee either direct or via your pension fund. You have 
chosen to pay us by your pension fund, although this means that you pay nothing direct, this 
does not mean our service is free. You still pay us indirectly through product charges. 
Product charges pay for the product providers own costs and any fees. These charges 
reduce the amount left for investment. For this recommendation, an amount of £23,146.67 
will be deducted from your pension funds and paid to Core Financial Services as a fee. This 
figure can alter depending on the transfer value which is paid to Aviva.
This wasnt the only information given about the charges, as I set out in my provisional 
findings. And on each occasion, it appears Core gave clear information about how much Mr 
B would be charged for its advice. So I cannot agree that it misled Mr B about the fees it 
would take for advice.
Mr Bs representatives have said had Mr B known the amount he would be charged overall 
as a client of Core, he wouldnt have chosen to be their client. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, my findings relate only to the complaint issues brought by Mr Bs 
representatives to this service and which Core have had the opportunity to respond to. Ive 
not considered each individual bit of advice and whether it was suitable as this wasnt part of 
the complaint raised with Core but I have looked at whether the charges were clearly set out. 
Whilst the charging level applied was very high and well above the market rate, Mr B was 
given clear, full and not misleading information about the charges applicable. He also chose 
to go with Cores most expensive charging proposition when the option was given to choose 
a cheaper package. So I cannot say that Core was unfair or misleading in fees it applied to 
Mr Bs plan.
Conclusion
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision and above, I can't  hold Core  
responsible  for the advice  to transfer  Mr Bs OPS  pension  as it did not give that advice , 
another  firm is responsible.
Core  has charged  at an extremely  high fee rate but it made  Mr B aware  of these  fees 
and the impact  they would  have  and he accepted  them,  so I cannot  make  an award  
purely  for them  being  expensive . However,  I have  identified  a period  where  Core 's 
advice  was poor and as a consequence  I think  the fees for that advice  should  be 
refunded  with interest.  And had suitable  advice  been  given  I don't  think  Mr B would've  
made  the withdrawals  at the level he did, so the losses  that occurred  from this should  
also be refunded .
Putting things right
I recognise  that the redress  I have  set out is a somewhat  simp lified version of 
events  and relies  on some  assumpt ions I've made  in terms  of benefit  payments.  
And a simplified  version  of what  Mr B could 've done  instead  and the potential  position of those  funds  going  forward.  But this is necessary  given  this information  
wasn 't considered  or properly  investigated  at the time of advice   and neither  party  
has disputed  any of these  assumptions.  I am satisfied  the refund  of fees is fair 
considering  the level  of fees Mr B was paying for advice  and the service he ought  to 
have  been  able to expect  for that level of cost.  And my conclusions  are based  on 
the information  availab le in terms  of how Mr B's benefits  ought  to have  been  paid.
The advice given  in 2017  to take £17,000  per annum  in income  paid month ly
Core  should  compare  the monthly payments  actually  taken  with the amount  he could've  
withdrawn  without  losing  access  to his ESA (£85 per week).  It should  then refund  the 
total difference  in amounts  until Mr B increased  his withdrawals  in September  2017  -  it 
should  use the date Mr B was in receipt  of the significantly  increased  funds  as the end 
date for the loss assessment.  The loss amount  should  have  interest  added  at 8% simple 
from that date until the date of settlement. This will have  the result of compensating Mr B 
for the loss of use of this money  to date.
Core's  fees charged  for the unsuitable  advice in 2017
Core  should  also refund  any fees both upfront  and ongoing  that it took between  
February  2017  and September  2017 together  with simple  interest  at 8% a year, from  
the date the fees were  paid to the date of settlement.  This covers  the period  of 
unsu itable  advice and redresses  Mr B for the loss of funds  that he would've  
eventua lly received as income.
Payment  of redress
Core  should  pay the redress  direct  to Mr B. But had it remained  in the pension,  
when  it came  to be withdrawn,  it would have  provided  a taxable  income.  Therefore  
the compensat ion shou ld be reduced  to notionally  allow  for any income  tax that 
would  otherwise  have  been  paid. This is an adjustment  to ensure  the compensat ion 
is a fair amount  - it isn't a payment  of tax to HMRC,  so Mr B won't be able to reclaim  
any of the reduct ion after  compensation  is paid.
The notional  allowance  shou ld be calculated  using  Mr B's actual  or expected  
margina l rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age.
It's reasonable  to assume  that Mr B is likely  to be a basic  rate taxpayer  - given  the 
amount  of income  it appea rs he is taking  from  the pension,  so the reduction  would  
equal  20% .
Income  tax may be payable  on any interest  paid. If Core  deducts  income  tax from  
the interest , it shou ld tell Mr B how much  has been  taken  off. Core  should  give Mr B 
a tax deduction  certificate  in respect  of interest  if Mr B asks  for one, so he can 
reclaim  the tax on interest  from  HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropr iate.
A copy  of Core 's calcu lations  shou ld be supplied  to Mr B and his representat ives 
clearly  setting  out its calculat ions.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Core Financial Services Ltd to put things right as set 
out above upon notification of Mr Bs acceptance of this decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman