DRN-2964482
The complaint
Mrs A complains Equifax Limited incorrectly removed details of her electoral roll registration 
from her credit file.
What happened
Mrs A says every year Equifax removes her electoral roll registration from her credit file 
when she has been consistently registered to vote at her current address since 2009. Mrs A 
says this causes her a lot of stress and inconvenience having to prove that she is registered 
on the electoral roll each time. 
Mrs A made a complaint when this happened in late 2019 and early 2020. Equifax said in its 
final response this was caused by a delay in Mrs As council providing up to date 
information.
 
Two Investigators considered Mrs As complaint. They said in summary:
Mrs A was never removed from the electoral roll. The local authorities made the 
information available in December and it was updated on Mrs As credit file in 
January. 
Equifax had provided evidence to show Mrs As electoral roll information was 
updated on its systems on 10 January 2020. Although the Investigator noted Mrs A 
didnt accept this evidence. 
The lack of electoral roll information may have caused a temporary dip in Mrs As 
credit score but this wouldve updated automatically once the information was 
updated in January 2020. 
We couldnt consider Mrs A concerns about how Equifax had handled her complaint 
as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. 
Mrs A accepted that we couldnt consider the issues relating to how the complaint was 
handled. But she wasnt happy with the Investigators findings about the electoral roll issue. 
Mrs A didnt think Equifax were telling the truth about the reason for the missing electoral roll 
information and provided some evidence shed received from her local authority. 
As she didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Mrs A has had several other complaints with Equifax over the last few 
years and has some other ongoing complaints against Equifax now. To be clear, this 
decision covers only Mrs As concerns about her electoral roll information for the 2020 year. 
Electoral roll information is provided to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) like Equifax by 
local authorities. This information is updated annually usually between September and 
November and published in December. Equifax said, during this period, CRAs dont receive 
monthly updates from local authorities so information about electoral roll registration isnt 
always up to date on individual credit files. Once published, it can take the CRAs a few 
weeks to update individual records. 
Mrs A has provided an email from her local authority which says they the published electoral 
roll information for the 2020 year on 1 December 2019 and sent it to Equifax on 
10 December 2019. 
Mrs A has also provided a number of screenshots from her credit file, which she says show 
her electoral roll information was missing from her credit file in late 2019 and early January 
2020. Ive reviewed everything shes sent us and none of the screenshots Ive seen show 
Mrs A was not registered on the electoral roll. So I find it unlikely Mrs As electoral roll 
information had been removed at this time.  
Equifax has provided evidence, in the form of a screenshot from its system, to show it 
updated Mrs As electoral roll information on 10 January 2020. 
When Mrs A first contacted Equifax about this issue, Equifax said there had been a delay in 
receiving this information from the local authority. But I dont think this was the case. I say 
this because Mrs A has provided us with evidence to show her local authority sent Equifax 
her electoral roll information in December 2019.
As Ive already explained, it seems its not unusual for there to be a few weeks between 
electoral roll information being published and individual credit files being updated. So I dont 
find Equifax has done anything wrong in terms of Mrs As credit file. But I dont think it was 
helpful for Equifax to say the delay was due to the local authority  when this seemingly isnt 
correct.
I know Mrs A isnt happy with this explanation. She believes Equifax only updated her 
electoral roll information after she complained. But based on the call records, she first 
complained about this issue on 11 January 2020, the day after Equifaxs records had been 
updated. Mrs A has also suggested that the screenshot Equifax provided has been 
fabricated. But, other than Mrs As contention, Ive seen nothing to suggest this screenshot 
cant be relied on. 
Mrs A is unhappy her overall credit score was reduced because of the absence of the 
electoral roll information. Mrs As particular concern about a decrease in her score between 
December 2020 and January 2021 was dealt with under a different complaint so I wont be 
commenting on this here. She was also unhappy Equifax said it couldnt see her historical 
scores because shed since cancelled her subscription with it. But I dont think these points 
make a difference the to the outcome of Mrs As complaint. I say this because even if there 
was dip in her credit score as a result of the electoral roll information not being available, this 
likely wouldve updated automatically when the information was updated and  in any event, 
Im satisfied Equifax hadnt done anything wrong in respect of Mrs As electoral roll 
information. 
Im aware that since this time, Mrs A has had other issues with her electoral roll information 
relating to the format of her name and these issues are the subject of other, separate, 
complaints. The screenshot provided by Equifax showing when Mrs As electoral roll 
information was updated shows her name was spelt and formatted correctly. So, I find its 
unlikely there was a problem with the format of Mrs As name on this occasion. In summary, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs A was removed from the electoral roll 
itself  indeed the email shes provided from her local authority confirms that was never the 
case. Just that Equifaxs records didnt show her as being on the electoral roll for the 2020 
year until 10 January 2020  which for the reasons Ive explained I find fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Mrs As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman