DRN-3401477
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that when Legal & General Investment Management Ltd sold and 
then re-purchased units in their Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs), under the pretence of 
transferring the administration of their ISAs, this created a financial loss and hid historic 
losses.
What happened
Legal & General wrote to Mr C and Mrs C to explain it had decided to transfer the 
administration of its personal investment business to a provider I will call Company F. Mr C 
and Mrs C elected to transfer the investment to Company F.
Shortly after the transfer completed Mr C and Mrs C complained to Legal & General that the 
reclassification of the investment had created a financial loss and that Legal & General 
hadnt made it clear the investment would be re-classified. Legal & General provided a final 
response and didnt uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint as it thought it had explained the 
change in classification prior to the transfer being accepted by Mr C and Mrs C, and that the 
investment hadnt been sold and re-purchased. 
Mr C and Mrs C werent happy with the response from Legal & General and brought their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things 
and thought that the re-classification of the investment hadnt created a financial loss and 
that any loss, historic or as a result of the reclassification, had been caused by the general 
movement of the financial markets.
Mr C and Mrs C have asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C and Mrs C will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons 
as the Investigator provided, Ive decided that Legal & General hasnt done anything wrong 
and I wont be upholding the complaint. I will now explain why.
L&G wrote to Mr C and Mrs C to tell them when and how their ISA investments would be 
transferred to Company F, but it also gave Mr C and Mrs C the options to transfer to another 
provided or sell their ISAs. I would expect L&G to have provided a reasonable explanation of 
the process for the transfer and also explain to Mr C and Mrs C that the units within the L&G 
fund would be different to those within the fund administered by Company F. In this case Im 
satisfied L&G provided a number of documents that gave a reasonable explanation of what 
Mr C and Mrs C could expect if they decided to transfer to Company F. The documents 
specifically explained how the units in the fund would be re-classified and why this needed to 
be done. I think these documents allowed Mr C and Mrs C make an informed choice and Im 
satisfied that after receiving these documents Mr C and Mrs C elected to transfer their ISA 
holdings to Company F.
The crux of Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint is that L&G sold the units in their ISAs before the 
funds could be invested with Company F, but this isnt what happened. Instead, as the units 
held in the L&G ISAs were R class units, they were converted to I class units the same day. 
This was because the I units were available on the platform of Company F and the R units 
werent, as L&G had previously explained to Mr C and Mrs C. The conversion happened on 
the same day and, as the I class units were higher in value, the number of units held post-
conversion were lower. Importantly, the value of the funds converted was the same and 
therefore there was no financial loss as a result of this transaction. Of course, the value of 
the ISAs would be affected by market movements, and Mr C and Mrs C would have seen 
they held fewer units now, but Im satisfied the reclassification of the units didnt affect the 
fund values. I appreciate that Mr C and Mrs C may not have experienced this type of 
transaction before but Im satisfied L&G didnt do anything wrong here as L&G had explained 
what would happen to the holdings in the ISAs before Mr C and Mrs C elected to make the 
transfers to Company F.
Mr C and Mrs C say the actions taken by L&G at the time of the conversion hid historic 
losses. Im not persuaded this is the case. L&G had taken a business decision to stop 
administering the ISAs and there no evidence to show the conversion had any impact on the 
underlying fund values within the ISAs or that it could have hidden any historic fund 
performance. Mr C and Mrs Cs ISAs werent out of the market for any time, so the 
performance of the fund  both pre and post conversion  is likely to be solely related to 
market conditions and not the actions of L&G. 
My final decision
Ive decided that Legal & General Investment Management Ltd didnt do anything wrong and 
I havent upheld the complaint made by Mr C and Mrs C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman