DRN-2218912
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charges Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
asked him to pay when he returned a car after ending a financial agreement.
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a new car in February 2016. In 
January 2020 Mr M voluntarily terminated the agreement and handed the car back. Mr M 
says hes unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied when he returned the 
car; he says they are excessive, and he doesnt agree with the costs. Mr M told us:
When he returned the car, it was inspected by a third party and a Vehicle Condition 
Report was prepared;
he didnt sign the report because although he agreed with the assessment of the car 
and the damage, he didnt agree with the costs that were quoted for resolving very 
minor wear and tear;
the costs are unreasonable, and he had planned to discuss them with VWFS when it 
next contacted him. And he wanted to highlight the fact that hed paid to have the car 
serviced and MOTd even though he didnt need to do so;
VWFS didnt contact him to discuss the charges; it simply invoiced him in 
February 2020 for the full amount - £629.76; and then it appointed a third party to 
recover the outstanding debt.
VWFS rejected Mr Ms complaint. It said its charges were competitive with the current prices 
in the industry and the refurbishment charges it had asked Mr M to pay would remain.
It explained it had taken steps to ensure Mr Ms direct debit did not collect an amount to 
cover the refurbishment charges while he raised a complaint. But it acknowledged it hadnt 
updated its records to prevent arrears letters being issued and it apologised for this. VWFS 
said that because the refurbishment charges are still outstanding, it passed details to its 
third-party collection agents to collect the outstanding balance on its behalf.
Mr M disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service. He says hes prepared to pay 
£300 to VWFS to settle this matter.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that when he signed the agreement, Mr M agreed to be responsible for any 
damage to or deterioration of the vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear. And that 
based on the industry guidelines, the Vehicle Condition Report and the photographs taken 
during the vehicle inspection, she didnt think the charges were unfair or that VWFS had 
acted incorrectly.
The investigator also looked at the voluntary termination (VT) pack that was sent to Mr M 
when he told VWFS that he wanted to end his financial agreement. She was satisfied that 
the pack outlined the VT process, and gave Mr M information about where he could find 
details about the charges that would be applied for each item of damage. And if hed been 
unhappy with the level of charges, he couldve had the remedial work undertaken before he 
returned the car.
Finally, she explained that it was a matter for VWFS to decide whether to pursue outstanding 
charges itself or to employ the service of a third party.
Mr M disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
Under the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, it was Mr Ms responsibility 
to keep the vehicle in good repair and condition. It also set out that Mr M would be 
responsible for any damage or deterioration of the vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and 
tear.
It is expected that when a car is handed back it will show some signs of use. So fair wear 
and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining whether any 
damage goes beyond fair wear and tear.
Mr M appears to accept there was some damage to the car. He said he concurred with the 
list of issues found during the assessment of the vehicle but he didnt sign the report 
because he believes the charges are unreasonably high.
 
VWFSs inspection report lists five areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear and 
tear and its provided photographs to support its position.
1. Bumper front  scratched £55.20
2. Bumper rear  paint chips                     £110.40
3. Left hand front door  scratched £110.40
4. Left hand quarter panel  dented £138.00
5. Left hand front wing  scratched £110.40
The hire agreement says that Mr M will be responsible for any damage to or deterioration of 
the vehicle which is in excess of wear and tear. And the BVRLA guidelines set out the size of 
scratches and dents and the number of chips in the paintwork that are acceptable. It says 
scratches should be 25mm or less; dents should be 15mm or less; and chips in the 
paintwork should have a diameter of 3mm or less, and there can be a maximum of four chips 
on a rear-facing panel.
Ive looked very carefully at the photographs VWFS provided and referenced these against 
the BVRLA guidelines, and Im satisfied that all five areas are damaged as detailed in the 
inspection report and that the damage is outside fair wear and tear. The photographs show 
all three of the itemised scratches to be in excess of 25mm; the dent in the left-hand quarter 
panel looks to be greater than 15mm in total; and there appear to be more than four chips on 
the rear bumper. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for VWFS to charge for putting right 
this damage. Mr M says the charges are unreasonably high. Ive considered this but having done so, Im 
satisfied that VWFS acted fairly and reasonably in respect of the charges it applied. I say this 
because VWFS sent Mr M an information pack about VT when he asked about ending his 
agreement early. This information pack explained the VT process and it provided Mr M with 
information about charges that would be applied in the event that there was any damage to 
the vehicle. So, I think Mr M ought reasonably to have been aware of the level of charges 
that VWFS might apply.
The information pack also explained that Mr M could make his own arrangements and have 
any remedial work on the car carried out by an approved repair centre, prior to the car being 
collected and inspected by the third party on behalf of VWFS. So, Im satisfied that Mr M 
couldve made his own arrangements to have the damage repaired had he been unhappy at 
the level of charges that VWFS would apply.
Ive also looked at the charging structure for other manufacturers, and I accept that the 
charges applied by VWFS are higher than some. I have the power to require businesses to 
act in relation to an individual when something has gone wrong, but not to order a business 
to change its practices more generally. So, I cant say what VWFS should charge for 
damage when hire vehicles are returned, but I can look at whether they have applied those 
charges fairly in this particular case. Im satisfied that VWFSs charging structure is the same 
for all consumers when a car is returned at the end of a finance agreement, so I dont think 
its been applied unfairly in this case and I dont think the charges are excessive.
Mr M says hes been caused unnecessary upset and worry by VWFS sending him debt 
recovery letters for the unpaid invoice while he was still disputing the charges. And hes 
concerned that his personal data has been given to a third party without his knowledge or 
consent.
I cant say that VWFS has acted unfairly in seeking payment of the outstanding balance 
even when a dispute is ongoing; this is because there is an outstanding balance and its final 
response letter is clear as to the amount that remains unpaid. And its for VWFS to decide 
whether to pursue the outstanding debt itself or to appoint a third party to act on its behalf. 
But if Mr M remains concerned about how his personal data has been handled, he can ask 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to look into any potential breaches and he 
should contact the ICO directly if he wishes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman