DRN-3290700
The complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank PLC wont reimburse the money he paid to what he says he 
later learnt was an investment trading scam.
What happened
In March 2017, Mr A was contacted by a company called IG Options Exchange who sold him 
an investment opportunity. Mr A says he was promised a guaranteed minimum return of 
4.3% per month and a maturity bonus if he didnt make any withdrawals from his trading 
account for three years. He was also sent the companys past performance report which 
convinced him to invest. 
On 21 March 2017, Mr A sent £5,000 to IG Options Exchange using his Metro Bank credit 
card. The transaction appeared under a different merchant name on his credit card 
statement. Mr A states that when he questioned this, he was told that it was a trading name 
of IG Options Exchange. Hes also told us that IG Options Exchange subsequently changed 
its name to ISGXchange.
Mr A states that although he didnt make subsequent deposits despite being asked to, he 
was able to see his account gaining lucrative returns  his investment had grown to £11,000 
at one point. But around the start of 2019, he started experiencing problems. At first, he 
couldnt see his trading account balance. Then, he couldnt log on to the trading platform. 
When Mr A started making enquiries, there was no response from ISGXchange. 
Mr A states that it was around this time that he realised hed been scammed. He asked 
Metro Bank for assistance with recovering the money. But it said that he raised the dispute 
outside the chargeback timescales.
One of our investigators concluded Mr As complaint should be upheld. She agreed that the 
chargeback claim was made out of time but thought there were grounds for a valid claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
Metro Bank disagreed and said that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement, which must exist for Section 75 to apply, didnt exist. So, it didnt believe it could 
be held liable for Mr As loss.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint and agreed that the payment was sent to a 
different company and there was insufficient evidence to conclude that this didnt break the 
DCS agreement. While she thought that Metro Bank didnt act unfairly in relation to the 
recovery of Mr As funds, she concluded that the complaint should still be upheld because 
the payment in question was unusual and Metro Bank should have done more to prevent it 
from being sent in the first instance.
Metro Bank didnt agree. In summary, it noted that an FCA warning wasnt published until 
May 2018  over a year after Mr A authorised the payment. So, it couldnt have given him a 
warning about ISGXchange specifically.  Metro Bank also said that it isnt unusual for people 
to make larger payments using their credit cards. 
I issued my provisional decision in January 2022. I explained why I didnt think that Metro 
Bank was responsible for the loss Mr A had suffered. 
I first considered whether Metro Bank could have recovered Mr As payments when he 
reported the scam. I explained that chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card 
scheme which allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if theres a problem 
with the goods or services theyve paid for. I also explained that theres no legal right to a 
chargeback. Mr As credit card was issued under the MasterCard scheme and under the 
schemes rules, a chargeback for issues such as the one pertinent to this dispute could only 
be attempted within a maximum of 540 days from the transaction settlement date. 
I explained that by the time Mr A contacted Metro Bank in 2019, he was outside this time 
limit. So, I didnt think Metro Bank could have reasonably attempted a chargeback claim on 
his behalf. 
I then considered whether Mr A had a valid right to claim under Section 75 of the CCA. 
I explained that it gave a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor as they would have against the supplier of goods or 
services. In other words, if Mr A had a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
against ISGXchange, he could bring a like claim against Metro Bank (as the provider of the 
credit), provided certain conditions were met. One of them being that theres a debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. I explained that in this case, the debtor was Mr A, the 
creditor was Metro Bank, and the supplier was ISGXchange. But Mr As credit card 
statement showed that he paid Bursa Trade18557124848 UK CYP and not IG Options 
Exchange or, as hed said, its present name of ISGXchange. 
I said that there could still be a DCS agreement in place if there was a pre-existing 
arrangement between IG Options Exchange (ISGXchange) and Bursa Trade and they were 
linked such that they were associates as defined by section 184 the CCA. But I was unable 
to establish a link or relationship between the them. I acknowledged that Mr A strongly felt 
that a deposit completion receipt from IG Options Exchange once he made the payment to 
Bursa Trade established a link without a shadow of doubt. But I considered that the deposit 
confirmation wasnt enough for me to say that the two companies were linked as associates 
as required under the CCA. I explained that the receipt didnt explain what role, if any, Bursa 
Trade played in the transaction in question. Given what I had found, I didnt consider that 
Mr A had a valid Section 75 claim.
Once Id established that Metro Bank hadnt treated Mr A unfairly in relation to the recovery 
of his funds, I went on to consider whether it could have done more to prevent the funds 
from being sent in the first instance. 
I said that banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect 
customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud. Theyre also required to undertake 
due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply 
executing authorised payments, they dont have to protect customers against the risk of bad 
bargains or give investment advice. And the financial services regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute 
unauthorised investment advice.
I said that our investigators view was that the payment ought to have been flagged as 
unusual or suspicious on Metro Banks systems, and an intervention at the time would likely 
have led to the scam being uncovered. I went to say that I had reviewed Mr As credit card 
statements, and considering his spending pattern, I thought an opportunity was missed by 
Metro Bank in relation to its duty of care. I said that a single transaction of £5,000 did appear 
out of character when considering the account activity. I was also mindful that the transaction in question was equivalent to the credit limit set on Mr As credit card. So, it was 
my judgement that there were grounds for additional checks.
But I wasnt persuaded that further checks by Metro Bank would have unravelled the scam 
at that stage. I explained that in March 2017, when the disputed payment was made, there 
wasnt information available to Metro Bank that IG Options Exchange, or indeed Bursa Trade 
as it appeared on Mr As statement, was involved in a scam. A warning by the FCA wasnt 
published until 14 months later. I said that any fraud warning that Metro Bank could have 
given Mr A would have been about investment scams in general. And even if hed gone 
away to do some additional research, there wasnt adverse information in the public domain 
about the company at the time.
I also noted that Mr A had told us hed been sent a lot of information by the IG Options 
Exchanges representative which looked very professional and included testimonies of 
success stories. He also told us that his trust had been gained. I asked our investigator to 
make further enquiries with Mr A about the transaction appearing under a different name. He 
said that he wasnt aware of this at the time, but he wasnt concerned as he believed Bursa 
Trade was a trading name of the company hed been dealing with. Mr A went on to confirm 
that he wouldnt have been alarmed even if he had learnt that the payment was going to a 
different merchant following a call from Metro Bank.
Accordingly, I wasnt convinced that any contact from or further discussion with Metro Bank 
would have stopped Mr A from going ahead with the payment. And I didnt think Metro Bank 
was responsible for his loss.
I invited further comments from both parties. Metro Bank said that it had nothing further to 
add. Mr A asked me to reconsider my decision. In summary, Mr A said:
he agrees that it wouldnt have made any difference had Metro Bank flagged the 
transaction as unusual at the time.
he's a victim of a large-scale fraud, details of which are available on the internet.
as the credit provider, Metro Bank is jointly and severally responsible for any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a retailer.
it isnt unusual that some companies collect money under different trading names, 
and in some instances the trading name could be different to the parent company 
name.
hes slightly outside the permissible chargeback period of 540 days, but immediately 
informed the bank as soon as he became aware of the scam. Mr A would like me to 
address this in a fair and reasonable manner.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr A for his recent submissions which Ive also carefully considered. But they dont 
change the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.I accept that Mr A was the victim of a scam and Im sorry that he lost this money. But this 
money was lost to scammers. In order for me to conclude that Metro Bank should be liable 
for this loss, Id need to be satisfied that it could have prevented Mr A from being scammed. 
I have already explained in my provisional decision why I dont think an intervention by Metro 
Bank would have made a difference to Mr As decision to send the payment to ISGXchange. 
And Mr A has said that he agrees with me on this point. So, I see no reason to depart from 
my original findings. It remains the case that any failure on Metro Banks part in relation to 
not spotting the disputed payment as unusual or out of character is not the dominant, 
effective cause of Mr As loss. 
I next turn to Mr As comments about Metro Banks actions in relation to the recovery of the 
funds after he asked for assistance. Its not my role to second-guess MasterCards rules 
governing chargebacks, or whether theyre fair and reasonable. What I need to consider is 
whether a regulated card issuer (like Metro Bank) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder. 
As Ive previously mentioned, under MasterCards rules chargebacks can be raised only 
within certain timescales. The timescale relevant here is 540 days. Mr A contacted Metro 
Bank outside of this timescale. If Metro Bank had raised a chargeback claim on Mr As 
behalf, it wouldnt have been considered valid under the scheme rules. So, Im not 
persuaded Metro Bank was acting unfairly or unreasonably when declining to raise a 
chargeback that was clearly outside the time limits set by MasterCard. 
Although it makes little difference to Mr As case  the chargeback request was made too 
late  chargeback rights are limited through MasterCard scheme rules when it comes to 
claims of this nature. Theres no guarantee that the chargeback would have been successful 
even if Mr A had contacted Metro Bank within the 540-day time limit.
In relation to Section 75 and a DCS agreement, I accept that some merchants collect 
payments under a different merchant name. Indeed, some retailers use a payment gateway 
or terminal facilities to collect payments. As I explained in my provisional decision, under the 
CCA a payment to one company can be treated as being the same as a payment to the 
other, provided the two companies are associates as defined in section 184 of the CCA. 
According to the definition in the CCA, just being linked in some way, or having a 
commercial relationship, isnt enough by itself to make companies associates. As defined in 
the CCA, two companies will be associates of one another if they are controlled by the same 
people, or if people who control one company are associates of people who control the other 
company. People are associates of one another if they have certain familial relationships, or 
if they are in partnership. 
The fact that Mr A received a deposit completion receipt from IG Options Exchange when he 
made the payment to Bursa Trade does not prove that the two were associates. Id like to 
reassure Mr A that I carried out my own research into the two companies, but there isnt 
anything that shows that IG Options Exchange (ISGXchange) and Bursa Trade were 
associates  as defined in the CCA  when he made the disputed payment. In the absence 
of this information, the requirements for a DCS agreement to exist (and for a Section 75 
claim to be valid) have not been met. 
I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A. But for the reasons Ive given above 
and in my provisional decision, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Metro Bank responsible for 
his loss.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman