DRN-2775806
The complaint
Mrs K complains that a car acquired with finance from Go Car Credit Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In October 2018 Mrs K was supplied with car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with GCC.
Mrs K experienced a number of issues with the car including:
Oil and oil filter needed changing
Timing chain needed replacing
Large hole under the pedals
EGR valve issues
Head gasket issues
Mrs K says shes spent over £1200 on repairs. She accepts that serviceable items are her 
responsibility bit doesnt think she should be responsible for issues with the engine given the 
age and mileage of the car. Nor does she think its acceptable for there to be a hole under 
the pedals.
Mrs K contacted GCC to complain in September 2020. In response, GCC said that the oil/oil 
filter and timing chain were serviceable items. It said it would need Mrs K to provide a report 
confirming what the faults were and whether they were present tor developing at the point of 
supply.
Mrs K provided some reports but GCC said these didnt confirm that the fault was present at 
the point of supply and rejected her complaint. 
Mrs K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the issues relating to the timing chain 
and rocker cover were due to general wear and tear. She also said that there wasnt enough 
evidence that the issues with the EGR valve were present or developing at the point of 
supply. 
Mrs K didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because GCC supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second-hand car  such as that 
supplied to Mrs K  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more often than 
a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the 
car had an inherent fault, as opposed to a fault due to general wear and tear. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply. And its generally up to 
the business to put things right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Mrs K has complained about several; issues. Ive considered these and Im of the view that 
some of them are serviceable items which required replacement or repair due to general 
wear and tear. These include oil/oil filter, timing chain, crank seal and rocker cover. Ill 
explain why I think these are wear and tear items.
Information about timing chains readily available on the internet suggests that they need 
replacement at between 60,000  100,000 miles or after 6  10 years. I can see that Mrs Ks 
car was 6 years old and had covered over 57,000 miles at the point of supply. I dont think its 
likely that there was a fault with the timing chain at the point of supply because Mrs K 
managed to drive the car for around 33,000 miles before the fault occurred. Its more likely, 
given the age and mileage of the car, that the fault occurred due to general wear and tear.
Im aware that Mrs K had repairs carried out to the EGR valve and the gasket. These faults 
occurred outside of the first 6 months so as Ive said, its up to Mrs K to show that they were 
present or developing at the point of supply. None of the report provided by Mrs K say that 
this is the case. Taking into account the age and mileage of the car, I think its more likely 
that the faults were due to wear and tear. If the EGR valve and/or the gasket had been faulty 
at the point of supply, I would have expected the fault to occur much sooner and I dont think 
Mrs K would have been able to cover 30,000 miles.
Ive taken Mrs Ks comments about the car having been in an accident into account but 
having reviewed all of the available information, I cant find anything to support this. I 
understand that Mrs K feels that the car was pulling to one side as soon as she got it. This 
could be due to a number of things, but in the absence of any evidence that there was a 
point of supply fault , Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Om dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman