DRN-4074555
The complaint
Miss C complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited irresponsibly gave her a hire 
purchase agreement she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In January 2017, Miss C acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from 
Startline. The cash price of the car was £8,999. She was required to pay 59 monthly 
payments of £225.72, followed by a final optional payment of £235.72 if she wanted to take 
ownership of the car. 
In 2022, Miss C complained to Startline to say that it hadnt completed appropriate 
affordability checks before lending to her. Startline didnt uphold her complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the affordability 
checks Startline completed were reasonable and proportionate and that they didnt show any 
concerns about Miss Cs ability to repay the credit. 
Miss C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and guidance for lenders is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (known as 
CONC) within the regulators handbook. Ive had these in mind when deciding whether 
Startline acted fairly and reasonably.
Before granting credit, Startline needed to ensure it would be affordable for Miss C. There 
isnt a set list of checks it needed to complete, but it needed to ensure any checks it did 
complete were proportionate in the circumstances. What is considered proportionate will 
vary in each case as there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach. In deciding what checks to 
complete, Startline needed to take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): the 
amount borrowed, the total repayable, the size of the regular repayments, the term and 
Miss Cs circumstances. 
As part of the application, Startline says that Miss C declared a monthly income of £1,200 
and that she was living at home with her parents. It asked for proof of Miss Cs financial 
circumstances by requesting a copy of a recent bank statement and her payslip, both of 
which she supplied. It also completed a credit check and although it hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of this it says it showed no adverse information and minimal credit 
commitments. 
I think given Startline requested evidence of Miss Cs financial circumstances by way of bank 
statements and a payslip and completed a credit check, Im satisfied that the affordability 
checks it completed were reasonable and proportionate. Ive therefore considered whether 
I think it made a fair lending decision based on the information it saw. 
Startline hasnt been able to provide a copy of the credit checks it did, but Ive seen a copy of 
Miss Cs credit file that shes provided. This doesnt indicate that Miss C had any signs of 
financial difficulty on her credit file at the time she applied for the finance and that what 
Startline have told us appears to have been broadly accurate. 
The bank statement and payslip Miss C provided to Startline also confirms the amount of 
income she declared on the application and also demonstrates that other than two small 
credit commitments, she didnt appear to have any other significant essential expenditure. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that from what Startline could see the credit appeared affordable to 
Miss C. For this reason, I dont think it made an unfair lending decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman