DRN-3888540
The complaint
B, a sole trader, represented by Mr M, complains that Apex Insurance Brokers Limited 
(Apex) has mis-sold it a professional indemnity (PI) policy.
As Mr M has led this complaint, any reference to him includes B.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well established, so Ive summarised events.
B has taken out PI policies through Apex (a broker) for many years.
Apex has provided a proposal form from July 2010 that was titled a Professional 
Indemnity Proposal for Surveyors & Estate Agents NOT undertaking valuations for 
lending. And a Company A policy was taken out and renewed for several years.
In August 2016, Apex sold B another policy (from Company T) which replaced the 
first, during an advised sale, in which it says it was asked by B to match the terms of 
its existing policy. This policy remained in place for many years since.
Mr M says Bs work had changed over time. And that in 2016, 80% of its work was 
now building surveys  including pre-purchase valuation surveys. 
B provided a pre-purchase survey to one of its customers. This third party later took 
action against B about its work, arguing B had made mistakes within its survey and 
not included important information. And the third party said if the survey included this 
information they wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase, seeking around 
£47,000 from B.
B made a claim on its Company T PI policy. Company T referred to an exclusion that 
said it would not cover any claim arising from any survey or valuation report prepared 
by or on behalf of the insured, except:
A)for the purpose of certifying payments due to contractors or measuring 
quantities; or
B) for the purpose of establishing a price for the purpose of marketing a property for 
sale; or
C) any valuation solely for probate or matrimonial purposes.
Company T said the action against B arose from its survey of the property, which 
was not for any of the purposes listed. So, Bs claim was not covered. 
Company T also said the original proposal  dated July 2010  sent to it in August 
2016 by Apex listed various activities under Bs work including 20% Building 
Surveying, 20% Energy Assessments, 60% Assessor for Diplomas for R, but 0% for 
Residential Survey/Valuation/Inspection including Home Condition Reports. 
Company T said the 2016 proposal form from Apex amended the type of work listed 
as 80% Building Surveying. It said the claim B was making wasnt related to 
building surveying, so no cover was provided.
B complained to Apex  saying the policy was mis-sold as it wouldnt provide cover 
for the majority of Bs work which is building surveying. 
Apex considered the complaint, and said Company T wouldve covered a claim about 
building surveying work, which was listed in its proposal form. Apex also said the 
exclusion was clearly detailed within its policy schedule and that it had highlighted to 
B that it should check the documentation carefully.
So, B brought the complaint to this Service. He said upon discovery of the Company 
T claim being declined he collapsed and was taken to hospital. He said this led to 
several follow up consultant appointments, monitoring of his heart and considerable 
stress. Mr M also confirmed the claim against B had gone to formal adjudication. He 
says he represented B in this matter without any professional support, and the third 
party had not been successful. He said it seemed the matter was resolved, and hed 
incurred adjudication costs of £420.
Our Investigator looked into things and initially didnt uphold it.
Mr M disagreed, saying he had asked Apex to sell him a policy to cover his business 
and taken its advice, and it had instead sold him an unsuitable policy.
Our Investigator looked again and upheld the complaint. He said Apex had carried 
out an advised sale in 2016 which meant it had to ensure the policy was suitable for 
Bs needs. And it was evident the policy wasnt suitable as it didnt cover him for the 
type of work he was carrying out. So he directed Apex to pay for Bs adjudication 
costs of £420 (plus 8% interest), and £2,000 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the shock of the declined claim had caused him and the ongoing 
stress caused by managing the dispute himself without professional support.
Apex disagreed, saying it did not have a copy of its demands and needs document 
from 2016, but it had clearly set out its level of cover at each renewal, and that his 
listed work of building surveys was distinct from surveys/valuations which was 
supported by the 2010 proposal form. And it said Mr M had never informed Apex he 
was carrying out valuation surveys which is why this issue had arisen.
Apex also said the premiums charged for surveys and valuation work wouldve been 
considerably larger  so there was a clear incentive for Mr M to have bought this 
policy. And as a professional surveyor, Mr M wouldve been aware of the distinction 
between a building survey and valuation survey. And that whatever it had asked him 
he wouldve stated it was building surveying work given he has continued to refer to 
his workload as this, when it is in fact survey/valuation work.
Our Investigator reviewed this but didnt change his mind. So, the matter has been passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether Apex mis-sold the policy taken out in 2016. So, 
Ive first looked at the obligations Apex had when selling it.
Apex had an obligation to present information about the policy in a clear, fair and 
non-misleading way, as well as highlight any unusual, onerous or restrictive terms.
But significantly, Apex has said it sold the policy on an advised basis. This means it had a duty to ensure that the policy it was recommending was suitable for the 
customers needs. We would expect a broker to have asked sufficient questions to be 
able to assess the consumers needs.
So, Ive thought about the evidence to consider whether this has taken place in 2016.
There is no dispute that the 2010 sale also took place on an advised basis. Apex 
provided a pro-forma proposal document that listed many different types of work, 
under headings including Commercial Survey/Valuation, Land Survey/Valuation 
reports, Quantity Surveying, and Residential Survey/Valuation/Inspection. 
Each of these headings had further specific breakdowns of types of work below 
which allowed for input of what percentage of the firms work took this into account 
and that was filled in at the time. There is no dispute of the accuracy of the 
information recorded at this time.
However, for the 2016 sale, Apex hasnt been able to provide any demands and 
needs documents or evidence supporting what conversations took place at the time. 
It has provided a proposal form, however this differs from the 2010 document.
Under a heading entitled Full Description of Activities, with percentage breakdown it 
simply lists Building Surveying at 80% and Assessor for Diplomas at 20%. It 
doesnt set out what other types of work could be insured.
Mr M has been consistent that the type of work he was carrying out had changed in 
2016 from the 2010 sale, and included residential surveys. He also phrased this as 
building surveys to this Service. And in using this phrase, Im satisfied Mr Ms 
intention for this description is to include residential surveys/pre-purchase valuations.
Apex disputes that building surveys is an accurate description of this type of work, 
and instead has said this is survey/valuation work. And it has referenced its 2010 
document that clearly set out these types of work in different categories as evidence 
to show this was clear. 
But the 2016 sale includes no such distinction between roles or type of work. And 
Apex has given this Service nothing beyond this form to support that it asked 
questions to establish the type of work B was carrying out. So even if Mr M had 
stated he was carrying out building surveys when asked in 2016, it strikes me that 
Apex shouldve asked more questions around this to fully understand this work given 
the range of different types of surveys that could be carried out and the significance 
of getting this information right.
Apexs comments suggest it believes Mr M wouldve intentionally input an inaccurate 
descriptor here for the purposes of maintaining lower premiums. Its given no detail to 
support that Mr M wouldve been aware of the significance of this in relation to 
premiums. These comments appear purely speculative to me and unsupported by 
any evidence. So, these havent changed my mind. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Apex has failed to demonstrate it met its 
obligations to ensure the 2016 policy was suitable when it sold this to him. And while 
any such follow up policy or paperwork may have highlighted the levels of cover, I 
dont think this outweighs Apexs failure to ensure the policys suitability for B. Nor 
would it change anything given Mr M believed the term building surveying covered 
the type of work that he was carrying out.
As a result, Im satisfied the Company T claim being declined and the impact of this 
falls to Apex.
Thankfully for Mr M, the claim from the third party against B was not successful at 
adjudication. And the financial consequences of Apexs mistake are limited to these costs. Ive been given no evidence to suggest that this claim wouldve otherwise 
been declined by Company T, so, I am directing Apex to pay £420 as our Investigator 
has suggested, alongside 8% simple interest from the date Mr M paid these fees until 
the date of settlement.
Ive also thought carefully about the impact of the declined claim on Mr M as an 
individual. I dont doubt that a declined claim with potential costs of £47,000 came as 
a large shock to him as he reasonably believed he had cover in place to protect his 
business. And Im very sympathetic to his hospitalisation soon after and the fears he 
had around his health that followed. Hes described multiple follow up appointments 
and monitoring over time.
As well as this, its clear to me Mr M has suffered the ongoing stress of managing the 
dispute with the third party without professional support or guidance  which is the 
purpose he took out the policy in the first place. This matter only reached a 
conclusion in late 2022  leaving him with stress and worry far beyond what he 
wouldve had, if the policy had been set up correctly and the claim covered. 
As a result, Im directing Apex to pay B £2,000 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused Mr M.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint and directing Apex Insurance Brokers 
Limited to pay B the following:
£420 to account for the costs he incurred going through adjudication to resolve the 
dispute with the third party upon receipt from Mr M of such costs being incurred. 
8% simple interest on the above sum from the date of the payment until the date of 
settlement.
£2,000 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused B/Mr M as 
a sole trader, accounting for both the impact on his health and wellbeing, as well as 
the inconvenience of managing a dispute himself without professional support that he 
wouldve likely otherwise had in place.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman