DRN-1599982
 
Complaint
Ms P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Ms P applied for a credit card with BoS in 2003. She was sold the PPI in connection with this 
credit card,
The PPI cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of the 
monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Ms P was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ps complaint should be upheld.
Ms P didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has now come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Ive started by looking at whether or not Ms P was eligible for the policy at the time of the 
sale. Based on Ms Ps age, residence and employment at the time of the sale Im satisfied 
that she was eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Ms P that the PPI was optional and needed her consent before it 
could be applied to the account. Ms P says that she wasnt given a choice about taking the 
policy.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what BoS and 
Ms P have told us and considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement. I note there is a separate section for 
PPI and that PPI is presented as optional. If Ms P wanted PPI then she would have had to 
tick a box to take it out. I can see that the box to take PPI has been ticked and that Ms P 
signed this form. From what I can see, if the box for PPI hadnt been ticked then PPI 
wouldnt have been added to the account at this time.So while I appreciate what Ms P has told us, I think its more likely that the PPI was 
presented as optional and that it was only applied to the account because Ms P chose to 
take it out.
BoS say they advised Ms P to take the policy. This means they had to take adequate steps 
to ensure the policy was suitable for Ms P. I cant say whether BoS took all the steps as they 
shouldve. But I think the policy was suitable for the following reasons:
 
Ms P says she wouldve received six months full pay from her employer followed by 
six months half pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and could 
have been particularly useful when Ms Ps income reduced to half. It would also have 
paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Ms P may have been entitled to. 
 
Ms P didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
which wouldve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim under the 
policy. So it looks like she could potentially have made use of all of the cover under 
the policy.
 
I note what Ms P has says about her financial circumstances at the time of the sale 
and that PPI was an unnecessary cost. But she chose to take PPI out and so I think 
she felt she had a need for this type of cover. And the PPI was not an expensive 
policy especially in comparison to the benefit it provided. So I dont think the cost of 
the policy made it unsuitable for Ms P. And if there was no outstanding balance then 
Ms P wouldnt have needed to pay for PPI.
 
Ms P wouldnt have lost out financially if she wanted to cancel the policy earlier.
 
As well as checking that the policy was suitable for Ms P, BoS also had to give Ms P clear 
information about the policy at the time of the sale  in particular, about the costs, benefits 
and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy - so that she could make an informed decision 
about whether or not to take the PPI out. 
I dont think BoS gave Ms P all the information as they shouldve. This in itself doesnt mean 
that the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information 
about the policy would have put Ms P off taking it out. 
And I dont think better information about the policy would have put Ms P off taking it out. I 
say this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for her.
It follows that I dont think BoS mis-sold Ms P this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Navneet SherOmbudsman