DRN-1734090
The complaint
Mr S complains, as director of P, about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). Hes unhappy there was 
a delay when transferring money for the purchase of a property abroad in 2019. He said this 
resulted in substantial losses.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S said he was told the transfer would clear in five working days. And this is 
supported by information provided by Lloyds. But a correspondent bank was used 
because Lloyds didnt have a direct business relationship with the receiving bank. 
And Lloyds said the payment was stopped by the correspondent bank for compliance 
reasons, required by law. Lloyds is unlikely to have known the correspondent bank 
would need anything further or, if so, what it would need. So I dont think its fair to 
hold Lloyds responsible for the delay these checks caused  as it wasnt Lloyds that 
required them.
The correspondent bank asked Lloyds for some further information. Lloyds asked Mr 
S for this and it was received the following day. Lloyds then supplied this to the 
correspondent bank five days later. While it seems that this information couldve 
been supplied more quickly by Lloyds, I note that it was still provided well within the 
time limit that Mr S needed the funds transferred by. 
Mr S cancelled the transfer before the final date the funds were required by. He said 
hed waited long enough. I do appreciate his frustration with how long it was taking, 
but stopping the payment meant that it wouldnt reach the receiving bank. Ultimately, 
I cant say whether the transfer wouldve been made in time if Mr S hadnt cancelled 
it. And because it was cancelled, I dont know whether Lloyds sending over the 
information more quickly wouldve made a difference. 
While it seems that there was some miscommunication about the time it would take 
for this payment to clear, Im not persuaded that this is what caused a financial loss. I 
dont have sufficient evidence to say that the transfer wouldnt have been made in 
time had it not been cancelled. But cancelling the transfer did prevent the transfer 
from going ahead and reaching the receiving bank in time. I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for this.
 
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman