DRN-2914181
The complaint
Ms O says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Ms O took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 1998. Ms O paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
I sent Ms O and Halifax a provisional decision on 9 June 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
By the time Ms O applied for the PPI, her mortgage had already been approved and started, 
so she wouldve known she didnt have to take out a policy to get her mortgage  it was just 
an optional extra. She signed and submitted a form specifically for PPI, which set out what 
the policy was for and what the main benefits and exclusions were  so I think it wouldve 
been clear what she was applying for. The application also set out the cost of the policy, 
separately to that of the lending itself  again, the PPI was not part and parcel of the 
mortgage. Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the 
time, nor anything which shows that Ms O was misled into buying it here. So I think its most 
likely that Halifax made Ms O aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it at the time. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms O, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Ms O was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of her existing work benefits and offered her 
more comprehensive cover than what she already had. I understand Ms Os partner may 
have been happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when 
needed. And this mortgage was in Ms Os name, not anyone elses, so I dont think it 
wouldve been suitable for Halifax to have recommended she rely on other individuals to pay 
it. Ultimately, its worth bearing in mind that if Ms O had fallen behind on her mortgage she 
couldve lost her home. Overall, the PPI could have been useful for her in protecting her 
home and providing some peace of mind.
The cost of the policy was set out clearly, along with the benefit. So I think Ms O wouldve 
understood how much she would need to pay for the PPI if she chose it, as well as what it 
would pay out in a claim.
Lastly, it is possible that Halifax didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover. 
But as I mentioned above, Ms O doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those 
things. So I dont think that better information about this was likely to have put her off taking 
out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
8 July 2021. But neither Ms O nor Halifax sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Os complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman