DRN-3366136
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Scottish Widows Limited wouldnt allow him to access his 
protected tax free cash (PTFC) from his pension policy without first obtaining financial 
advice, and that it hadnt notified him of this change in the policy terms.
What happened
Mr W contacted Scottish Widows in August 2021 to request access to his PTFC  above the 
usual entitlement of 25% of the pension fund  from his section 32 pension policy (a type of 
policy used to receive occupational pension scheme benefits) but he was informed that in 
order to do so hed need to seek independent financial advice.
Mr W complained about this as hed previously been unaware of the requirement, and 
Scottish Widows responded in September 2021, saying that as Mr W needed financial 
advice, it has set up a call between him and a Schroders personal wealth adviser to discuss 
his options. But on that call, Mr W was told that he didnt need financial advice to access his 
PTFC. 
Scottish Widows then acknowledged that this was incorrect as it had changed its process for 
this in February 2021. It explained that this was a result of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) latest Retirement Outcomes Review (ROR3), which said that, for policyholders 
entering into drawdown, they would need to have the availability of an investment pathway.
It said that the product Mr W was interested in, the Zero Income Drawdown (ZID) policy, 
didnt have investment pathways. And whilst it had previously been possible to take tax free 
cash and leave the remaining funds invested, Mr W couldnt now leave the residual funds in 
the ZID policy.
It further said that, if Mr W decided to take advice and move to the ZID policy, his financial 
adviser would then need to immediately move the funds into another drawdown policy which 
had an investment pathway. 
In respect of the incorrect information Mr W had been given about being able to access his 
PTFC without advice, Scottish Widows offered him £50.
Mr W did then obtain financial advice to access his PTFC, but dissatisfied with Scottish 
Widows response, Mr W referred the matter to this service, where it was considered by one 
of our investigators. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld, saying the following in 
summary:
He said that Scottish Widows had provided him with its ROR3 impact to legacy 
drawdown approach, which had come into effect on 1 February 2021.
It demonstrated that the ROR3 update related to legacy policies such as that held by 
Mr W, with a PTFC entitlement.
The FCA launched its ROR in 2016, in the wake of the pension freedoms which had 
been introduced in 2015, to improve outcomes for consumers who werent seeking 
financial advice before entering into income drawdown.
This was updated over successive years, and in February 2021, ROR3 introduced 
new investment pathways for non-advised customers entering drawdown, and 
Scottish Widows applied this to its products.
As a result, Scottish Widows stopped offering ZID policies, as they didnt have 
investment pathways. This meant that a customer with a legacy policy such as the 
section 32 policy held by Mr W would need to be referred to a financial adviser to 
enter drawdown if they wanted to remain with Scottish Widows and retain the PTFC.
Mr W had wanted to transfer into a ZID, but this was six months after ROR3 had 
been introduced, and so this wasnt possible.
Pension freedoms legislation only required policyholders to seek financial advice if 
they held safeguarded, or in other words, guaranteed, benefits of over £30,000. 
Although Mr Ws policy didnt contain these benefits, it was nevertheless up to 
Scottish Widows to determine whether Mr W needed to take advice to enter 
drawdown with one of its policies.
Mr W had said that he was unaware of the changes to his policy provisions prior to 
contacting Scottish Widows, but the policy terms provided for Scottish Widows to 
make changes, and as a pension plan was a long term product, it wouldnt be 
unexpected for this to happen over time. 
This service wouldnt expect a pension provider to contact a customer every time a 
change was made. If a change affected a policys terms and conditions, this should 
be communicated to the customer, but if it affected the policy at retirement, then this 
could reasonably be communicated at the point of the customer contacting the 
provider.
In this case, Scottish Widows made Mr W aware of the change when he contacted it, 
and he would in any case have been in the same position if it had told him of the 
change when it was implemented.
In a subsequent telephone call with the investigator, Mr W said that he didnt really 
understand investment pathways and that hed like a second opinion on the matter. As such, 
the complaints been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons.
Ive firstly noted Mr Ws comment about the investment pathways, and to briefly explain, 
these were introduced by the regulator to ensure that, when a consumer such as Mr W was 
accessing his tax free cash but leaving the remainder of their pension fund invested, they did 
so in a properly informed position as to how their fund was invested, and how this might 
align with their future objectives. There were four investment pathways, or investment 
strategies, which could be implemented and were designed to provide a suitable investment 
environment for the following scenarios:Option 1: I have no plans to touch my money in the next 5 years; 
Option 2: I plan to use my money to set up a guaranteed income (annuity) within the next 5   
years; 
Option 3: I plan to start taking my money as a long-term income within the next 5 years; 
Option 4: I plan to take out all my money within the next 5 years
Unfortunately, in this case, Scottish Widows didnt offer investment pathways for its ZID 
policy, but Mr W would then have been free to transfer to a provider which did  but its likely 
that the PTFC would have been lost.
The only way in which Mr Ws wishes could be accommodated within Scottish Widows was 
by him obtaining advice, which precludes the necessity for investment pathways to be 
provided. 
I accept that this was a far from ideal situation for Mr W, but although it would have been 
advantageous from Mr Ws perspective for Scottish Widows to have been able to offer 
investment pathways for its ZID, I dont think its done anything wrong in taking the 
commercial decision to not do so. 
As to the matter of informing Mr W of the change, as with the investigator I think theres an 
expectation that pension providers contact their customers for important changes which will 
affect their policies, for example in the charges which are applied, but what was being 
proposed by Mr W was quite a specific set of circumstances which would only be 
encountered once he had decided how to take his pension benefits. 
And I dont think that Scottish Widows would necessarily have needed to write to all 
customers, in advance of them thinking about how they might access their pension benefits, 
to tell them the processes involved if, in the future, they wished to take their PTFC but leave 
the remainder of the pension fund invested. 
This is something which I consider might reasonably be communicated to the relevant 
individuals who wished to take this course of action as and when they decided to do so. And 
again, as with the investigator, I do also need to take into account what difference it might in 
fact have made, had Scottish Widows informed Mr W of the change having been 
implemented before he sought to take the PTFC. Mr W was clearly keen to preserve the 
PTFC entitlement, and wished to take it within six months of ROR3 being implemented. So I 
dont think that being notified of the change in February 2021 would have made a difference 
to his plans. And moreover, once notified, Mr W would in any case still have needed to seek 
financial advice.
I suspect Mr Ws position might be that Scottish Widows should have given advance notice 
that it was implementing changes in line with ROR3, which would have given him the 
opportunity to withdraw his PTFC before the changes took place, and my understanding is 
that no such advance notice was given  hence this aspect of Mr Ws complaint. But even if 
thats the case, I think it could be reasonably argued that this would have been acting 
somewhat contrary to the spirit in which ROR3 was intended, i.e. to ensure that consumers 
who were accessing tax free cash but leaving the remainder in drawdown were sufficiently 
well informed of their investment options.  
As it turns out, Ive noted that Mr W implemented an investment strategy which should, on 
the basis of the advice which has been given, be aligned to his particular circumstances and 
objectives  and so, although I anticipate that Mr W might think that the process was unnecessary and expensive, it might reasonably be argued that in the long run the 
regulators own objective to ensure a suitable investment strategy for Mr W has been 
achieved.
Overall, therefore, and whilst I accept that this might come as a disappointment to Mr W, I 
dont think I can fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman