DRN-3534479
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim he made under 
his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had a HomeCare policy with British Gas that covered him for repairs to his central 
heating system. During an annual service in April 2021 the British Gas engineer identified a 
gas leak. They suspected the leak was coming from a gas pipe under the floor and this was 
confirmed later the same day when the pipe was disconnected and capped while waiting for 
it to be fixed. The engineer told Mr K there was no protection around the pipe and the repair 
was unlikely to be covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. British Gas quoted 
about £1,100 to repair the gas pipe and Mr K agreed to pay for the repair as he said his wife 
was disabled and they couldnt be without hot water or heating. But he complained as he 
thought British Gas should cover the cost of the repair. 
British Gas maintained its decision. It said the cost of the repair wasnt covered under Mr Ks 
policy because it was a pre-existing fault that it couldnt reasonably have been expected to 
know about before he bought the policy. Mr K wasnt happy with this response and brought 
his complaint to this service. He thought British Gas should have told him before he agreed 
to the repair that he wouldnt be covered. He could then have used a local gas engineer who 
would have been cheaper. He also thought British Gas should have made him aware earlier 
that his gas pipe might not have been sufficiently protected. 
Our investigator didnt think British Gas had acted fairly. He didnt think it was fair for British 
Gas to say there was a pre-existing fault with the gas supply pipe. He also thought British 
Gas should have identified the fault on previous visits to Mr Ks property and told him that 
the gas supply pipe wasnt sufficiently protected. 
British Gas didnt agree with the investigators findings and so Mr Ks complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. It said it had no reason to look where the gas pipe 
entered the ground during its previous visits to his property. And it had only identified the 
pipe was unprotected when it became necessary to check it. British Gas also didnt think it 
was reasonable to suggest it points out every exclusion to its customers when they buy a 
policy. 
I came to a different conclusion from that reached by the investigator and so sent a 
provisional decision to Mr K and British Gas to give them an opportunity to comment. British 
Gas had nothing to add while Mr K didnt reply. So, my findings and decision below are 
substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for him to hear, so let me explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy includes the following:
Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
existed when you first took out the product;
weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work has been 
completed by a third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to 
a satisfactory standard;
we couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for example, 
faulty pipes that dont have the correct protection, or which are buried under 
concrete floors; or
prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over.
 
British Gas highlighted the first, second and fourth bullet points. It said pre-existing faults 
arent covered under Mr Ks policy and pointed out that his policy specifically excludes faults 
or design faults it couldnt reasonably be expected to know about, like faulty pipes that dont 
have the correct protection, or which are buried under concrete floors. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute about the cause of Mr Ks gas leak. His gas supply 
pipe was unprotected and buried under a concrete floor. British Gas has said its aware that 
many homes in the UK will have unprotected steel pipes buried in concrete floors. It said that 
concrete can corrode steel pipes that arent lagged (protected), although it will take a while 
and the chance of it happening is low. So, its not inevitable that steel pipes will corrode 
sufficiently to cause problems. But it is a known fault and it would seem it was this fault that 
led to the gas leak in Mr Ks property. 
Our investigator thought it was unfair for British Gas to suggest the fault was a pre-existing 
one as the unprotected pipe would presumably have met building regulations at the time 
Mr Ks property was built in the 1990s. So, it would be unfair to say it was a fault at the time. 
I dont disagree with that. But I dont agree this precludes British Gas from saying the fault 
with Mr Ks gas supply pipe was a pre-existing one. 
Each time Mr K renewed his policy with British Gas he was essentially renewing his contract 
of insurance. So, the events of April 2021 were covered by the policy he agreed with British 
Gas in December 2020. And I think its reasonable for British Gas to decide what to insure 
and what not to insure when its renewing its contract of insurance each year, as long as it 
sets out clearly the terms of the contract on each occasion.
Theres no dispute that the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy specifically excludes faults 
or design faults that were already there when his policy was installed and/or when he first 
took out the insurance. And I think its clear from the fourth bullet point that unprotected 
pipes or those which are buried under concrete floors are seen as a fault. So, I think it was 
reasonable for British Gas to say Mr Ks unprotected supply pipe was a pre-existing design 
fault, i.e. one that was there when the system was installed (even if it wasnt seen as a fault 
at the time of installation). 
Mr K believes British Gas should have made him aware that his pipes might not have the 
right protection beforehand so action could have been taken to prevent the leak. Our 
investigator agreed. He thought the engineer had discovered the cause of the leak easily 
enough and it was therefore reasonable to have expected British Gas to have known about the fault beforehand. But I dont agree. Let me explain. 
British Gass engineer went to Mr Ks property in April 2021 to carry out an annual service. 
They noted that the boiler was fine but the gas pressure couldnt hold the desired reading. 
They detected gas in and around the cabinet under the boiler in the kitchen. And as the 
connections were good, they assumed the leak was coming from the gas pipe under the 
floor. They turned the gas off and arranged for a company who specialise in gas leaks to 
investigate. That company confirmed the leak was coming from the gas pipe under the floor 
and disconnected it until it could be fixed. 
So, there was a chain of events that led British Gas to identify the fault in the gas pipe. The 
engineer knew there was a gas leak because of the lack of pressure and because they 
detected gas. That prompted them to investigate further and they then noticed the pipe 
wasnt protected and assumed the leak was likely to be due to the steel pipe corroding and 
causing the fault. That assumption was then confirmed by the company specialising in gas 
leaks. Looking at this chain of events, Im not persuaded it was reasonable for British Gas to 
have identified the fault in the gas pipe before the gas leak. I think it was the loss of pressure 
and the detection of gas that prompted the investigation and the detection of the likely cause 
of the leak. 
And so, taking everything together, I think its reasonable for British Gas to rely on the pre-
existing fault exclusion in Mr Ks policy when declining to pay for the repair of the gas supply 
pipe.
Mr K also complained that British Gas should have told him sooner that the repair wouldnt 
be covered under this policy. He could then have asked a local engineer to repair the pipe 
and that would have been cheaper. But the evidence suggests Mr K was aware the repair 
was unlikely to be covered under his policy on the same day the engineer attended. And as 
the repair works were completed about two weeks later, I think he had enough time to ask a 
third-party engineer to carry out the work had he chosen to do so. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr K has experienced but I dont think British Gas has 
treated him unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman