DRN-2704084
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Metro Bank PLC restricted access to its 
business account and withheld funds without explanation.
Mr O is Ps director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
P held a business bank account with Metro. It used a third-party merchant services provider 
to accept card payments.
On 1 May 2019, P received a payment of just over £100,000 into its account. Some of the 
funds, totalling around £39,000, were dispersed the same day. Later that day, Metro 
reviewed the account and restricted Ps access while it did so.
Metro asked Mr O to provide evidence to support Ps entitlement to the funds. Mr O provided 
Metro with some documentation, but the account remained blocked  so he raised a 
complaint.
In responding to Mr Os concerns, Metro said that:
It had restricted the account following receipt of the large credit, which wasnt in 
keeping with previous activity on the account. This was in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and the terms of Ps account.
While Mr O had provided some documents to confirm Ps entitlement to the funds, 
Ps merchant services provider had subsequently advised that the funds were 
fraudulent and recalled the payment. 
In the circumstances, it was obliged to protect and return the funds to the remitter, 
and the account would remain restricted until it had done so.
On 11 June 2019, Metro returned what was left of the payment (around £61,000) to the 
merchant services provider.
Mr P referred his concerns to us. He said hed evidenced the transaction to Metro but was 
still unable to access the funds. So he wanted the £61,000 to be released to P, highlighting 
the impact the matter was having on his business.
While the complaints been with us, Metro has closed Ps account. It wrote to P on 
16 October 2019 advising that the account would be closed on 23 October 2019. The 
account was actually closed on 22 November 2019. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ps complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
didnt think Metro had done anything wrong in reviewing and restricting the account in the 
circumstances and given its legal and regulatory obligations. She thought these actions, and 
the subsequent account closure, were all allowed for under the terms and conditions of the 
account.
Mr O didnt accept our investigators view. He said he understood that Metro was within its 
rights to review account activity and to close the account  but he didnt think it was fair for 
the bank to withhold the funds, for which hed demonstrated Ps entitlement. So he asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ps complaint earlier this month, setting out why I didnt 
think it should be upheld. I said:
Under the terms and conditions of Ps account, Metro was entitled to review the 
account and to suspend (and ultimately withdraw) its services. Its required to have 
such measures in place to fulfil a number of legal and regulatory obligations. 
Metro says it restricted Ps account in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Initially, this was due to the payment itself and the fact that it was out of line with past 
account activity. But it later received information from the merchant services provider, 
which recalled the payment. I think it was reasonable for Metro to review and restrict 
the account in these circumstances, in order to comply with its obligations.
I understand from Mr Os comments that he accepts Metros entitlements and 
responsibilities when it comes to reviewing the account. His main concern is the 
remainder of the payment, which he thinks Metro is still holding and should release to 
P. But as Ive set out above, thats not the case. Metro returned the remaining funds to 
the merchant services provider in June 2019. 
I appreciate Mr O provided some documentation to support Ps entitlement to the 
funds. And he did so at Metros request. But as Metro explained to Mr O in its 
response to the complaint, the merchant services provider later recalled the funds on 
the basis of fraud. Having looked at all the available evidence, I think it was reasonable 
for Metro to return the funds in line with the request it received.
After the return of those funds, there still remained a balance of around £810 on the 
account. Metro still holds that amount. It says Mr O can collect these funds by visiting 
a branch with ID.
Metro ultimately closed Ps account which, in line with the terms and conditions, it was 
allowed to do. Metro gave one weeks notice to P (although the account was only 
actually closed after a month). The terms and conditions allow for Metro to close the 
account immediately in certain circumstances, which I think wouldve been legitimate 
here. It follows that by giving some notice  and therefore the opportunity to make 
alternative arrangements and minimise the impact of the account closure on the 
business  I think Metro acted reasonably. 
So from what Ive seen so far, I dont think Metro did anything wrong in its review, 
restriction or closure of Ps account  or in returning the remaining part of the disputed 
payment to the merchant services provider as requested. And so while I do appreciate 
that this matter has had significant repercussions for Mr Os business, I dont think 
Metro is responsible for any loss or inconvenience suffered.In his response, Mr O said Metro ought to have been more forthcoming with information 
about what was happening and in a timelier manner. He felt that Metro and the merchant 
services provider had been obstructive and dismissive. 
Metro didnt respond with anything further for me to take into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while Ive taken into account the further comments from Mr O, Ive not 
reached a different conclusion from that set out in my provisional decision.
Mr O says that no concerns about the transaction potentially being fraudulent were raised 
until June 2019, some weeks after the payment in question was made. But I dont think thats 
significant. As I set out in my provisional decision, Metro took appropriate steps to hold and 
review the payment  including reviewing information from P about the transaction. I dont 
think it took an unreasonable amount of time to do so. Id highlight that in its response to Ps 
complaint in May 2019, it explained that it would be returning the disputed funds to the 
remitter  so I think it kept P informed. And, in the circumstances, I wouldnt expect it to have 
shared any more detail about things than it did. 
I appreciate that Mr O feels that Metro and the merchant services provider obstructed things 
by each directing him to the other. I note he wishes to raise a complaint about the merchant 
services provider and I cant comment on its actions here. 
I understand that this matter was time-consuming for P, and stressful for Mr O. But in order 
to award any compensation, Id need to find that Metro did something wrong. And for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I dont think it did. So Im not requiring 
it to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman