DRN-1682243
The complaint
This complaint is about HSBC UK Bank Plc transferring Mrs A and Mr As business deposit 
account to a business management account with a much lower rate of interest.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs A believes they havent been treated fairly. She believes that all that is changing 
is the name of the business deposit account which has then resulted in a lower rate 
of interest being paid. While I understand Mrs As frustration at the conversion of the 
account to an account with a lower rate of interest, having looked through the 
evidence provided I do not find in this case that I can say that HSBC has done 
anything wrong.
HSBCs business banking terms and conditions set out that accounts can be 
transferred in certain circumstances. In this case, HSBC decided to withdraw the 
business deposit account from small business customers. While I appreciate this is 
upsetting, it is a commercial decision for HSBC to make about which customers it 
provides different products to. It isnt generally my role to comment on the 
commercial aspects of the banks operations but instead to consider if a customer 
has been treated fairly.
I have seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs A were treated differently to any 
other small business customers and so I cannot say that they were treated unfairly in 
this regard.
Mr and Mrs A were contacted about the conversion of the account to an alternative 
account. HSBC wrote to them about this in August 2019, explaining that the 
conversion would take place on 4 November 2019. Therefore, I can see that they 
were given the notice as required in the terms and conditions.
I understand how upsetting this has been and particularly note Mrs As comments 
about how she has managed her financial affairs based on her belief the business 
deposit account would remain available. However, as HSBC provided the required 
notice under the terms and conditions, I do not find I can say it has done anything 
wrong.
Because of the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman