DRN-3336544
The complaint
Mr W has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned down his business 
interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr W held a business protection insurance policy with AXA. He claimed on the business 
interruption section of the policy after his business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. 
AXA turned down Mr Ws claim. It said the core business interruption cover and the 
extension for denial of access required the loss to have been caused by damage to property 
and Covid-19 hadnt damage property. It said while the policy provides cover for a specified 
list of diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the covered diseases. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. He said AXA had 
ignored the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business 
Interruption Insurance test case. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of his claim. 
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision. He thought it was unfair for the policy to not 
provide cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Ws business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Ws claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy covers the interruption or interference 
with Mr Ws business if property used by him at his business premises suffers damage. The 
policy defines damage as:
Accidental loss or destruction or damage caused by
1 an insured Cause under the Buildings or Contents section
2 damage to fixed glass or damage to the shop front where shown as covered in 
your schedule.
I havent seen anything to indicate that the interruption or interference with Mr Ws 
business was as a result of accidental loss, destruction or damage to property used by 
him at his business. So there isnt cover for Mr Ws claim under this section of the 
policy. 
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. The extension for 
denial of access covers Mr Ws business for interruption or interference as a result of 
damage to property within a one mile radius of Mr Ws premises which prevents or 
hinders access to, or the use, of his premises. 
However, I havent seen anything to indicate that the interruption or interference with 
Mr Ws business was due to damage to property within a one mile radius of his 
premises. Therefore, this extension doesnt provide cover for his claim. 
Disease
This extension covers interruption or interference with Mr Ws business following the 
occurrence of a specified human infectious or human contagious disease being 
suffered at his premises or within a one mile radius. The policy specifies a list of 
covered diseases, which doesnt include Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr Ws policy is not 
like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in 
the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which 
might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new 
diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Mr Ws claim.
Mr W has referred to the FCA test case. However, the test case didnt consider every term 
within every policy and whether the claim should be paid depends on the terms within the 
policy. In this case, the outcome of the test case doesnt impact the outcome of Mr Ws 
claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I cant fairly require AXA to pay Mr Ws claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman