DRN-2333668
The complaint
Mr K complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages cancelled his 
direct debit which then caused him to go into arrears. Mr K wants his credit file rectified. 
What happened
Mr Ks account was transferred over to Siberite in September 2019. Mr K had been making 
payments by direct debit and overpayments by standing order. Mr K got a text from Siberite 
at the end of that month to say that the September payment had gone to the previous lender 
and to amend the bank details for future payments. Mr K s daughter was helping him with 
the finances after his wife sadly died and she spoke to Siberite and set up a new standing 
order for the overpayments. It seems that the direct debit was cancelled by Siberite and so 
the monthly payments werent being collected. As Mr K had been making overpayments, 
Siberite drew on these and then in April wrote to Mr K to say that the account was in arrears 
of £416.09.
When Mr Ks daughter contacted Siberite she was told that the DD was cancelled on 8 
October and Siberite had written to Mr K on that date to inform him of that. Mr K immediately 
paid off the arrears and the next months payment of £751.99 and set up a DD. As Mr K was 
in arrears Siberite reported the failure to pay to the credit reference agencies. It accepted 
that it shouldnt have done this twice and paid Mr K £100 but maintained that its credit 
reporting was correct. It also charged Mr K an arrears charge of £40.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld as Siberite could have 
reached out more to Mr K including telling him that it was now using his overpayments to pay 
off the monthly payments. Her view was that Siberite should remove the credit marker, 
refund the £40 charge and increase he compensation to £150. Siberite disagreed saying that 
it was the responsibility of Mr K to make the payments and as the account was in credit, 
nothing alerted Siberite to the payments not being made until the account went into arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its difficult to know why Siberite cancelled the Direct Debit in October. Miss K contacted 
Siberite on 2 October after her father got a text from Siberite asking them to contact him 
about payments. It seems that although the DD with the previous lender could be continued 
that Mr K needed to set up a new standing order for the overpayments which he did, but 
somehow the DD got cancelled. Siberite says that when the DD was cancelled it sent a letter 
on 8 October. The letter reads As requested your Direct Debit has been cancelled . But Mr 
K through his daughter hadnt made such a request. This is clear from the Siberite advisers 
note dated the 2 October, following his conversation with Miss K, which reads, The DD was 
confirmed as being ok and to be left as it was.  I note that Siberites letter of 18 May 2020 
doesnt address the issue as to why it cancelled the Direct Debit. It says that its the 
responsibility of Mr K to ensure that payments are made and that its letter of 8 October 
alerted Mr K to the Direct Debit being cancelled.
I would have thought that even if Mr K got the letter of 8 October it may not have prompted 
him to do anything as he hadnt requested the DD to be cancelled and on the face of it, the 
letter was incorrect.  Clearly, Siberite seems to have made an error but seems not to have 
picked it up. Siberite wasnt collecting payments on the DD which it cancelled but Mr K 
continued to make overpayments on the standing order which he had set up. This wasnt the 
typical account of a customer going into arrears. I would have thought that any reasonable 
review of this account would have queried why this was and contacted Mr K to get Siberites 
error rectified. It seems to be Siberites position that as the account wasnt in arrears that it 
had no reason to review the account. But Siberite had raised the problem of the cancelled 
direct debit and I would have thought that it would have been reasonable for it to review the 
account to see how payments were being made. A review would have alerted Siberite to the 
problem and would have given it the opportunity to contact Mr K to get it rectified before the 
arrears situation arose.
My view is that Siberite made an error in cancelling the DD and its failure to conduct a 
reasonable review of the account meant that Mr Ks account fell into arrears, a situation that 
he tells me, he has never been in before. Although I recognise that its the responsibility of 
Mr K to make payments, he seems to have done all that was requested of him when Siberite 
first contacted him in early October but also following the death of his wife had clearly other 
matters on his mind. I take the view that making the overpayments is a clear indication that 
Mr K thought that his payments were being collected. Im also of the view that Mr K either 
didnt get the letter of 8 October or interpreted it as being incorrect given his daughters 
recent contact with Siberite. In either case, I believe that it would have been reasonable of 
Siberite, having raised the issue of the direct debit being cancelled, to review the account 
and this should have prompted further contact from Siberite before Mr K went into arrears. If 
Siberite hadnt cancelled the direct debit or if it contacted Mr K following a further review of 
the account, from the evidence I have seen, I consider it highly unlikely that Mr Ks account 
wouldnt have gone into arrears. So, I uphold this complaint. Siberite should rectify Mr Ks 
credit file to remove any reference to the missed payments and refund the arrears charge of 
£40. It should also pay Mr K £150 which I consider a reasonable figure for his trouble and 
upset. 
Putting things right
Topaz Finance Limited trading as Siberite Mortgages should rectify Mr Ks credit file to 
remove any reference to the missed payments and refund the arrears charge of £40. It 
should also pay Mr K £150 for his trouble and upset. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman