DRN-2227292
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains about the decision by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) to turn down a subsidence claim made under its commercial insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, A made a subsidence claim under its policy after noticing damage to a 
retaining wall. RSA investigated the damage, but thought it was caused by lateral movement 
due to a lack of restraint, as well as age-related deterioration. It therefore turned down the 
claim as it didnt think thered been subsidence. It also said the policy excluded gradual 
deterioration and wear and tear.
A provided RSA with a report from its own engineer. However, RSA maintained its decision 
to decline the claim. Unhappy with this, A brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the evidence 
supported that the damage to the wall had been caused by lateral movement, rather than 
subsidence. So she thought RSAs claims decision had been fair. 
A didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a claim to be payable, A needs to show that the damage was caused by an insured 
event (or peril) under the policy. RSA initially looked at whether thered been subsidence, 
as this is an insured event.
The policy doesnt define whats meant by subsidence, but as our investigator has said, we 
generally consider this to be the downward movement of ground.
RSAs loss adjuster carried out an inspection. They thought the wall had deteriorated and 
blown pointing was observed, which had evidence of root growth. They also said brick 
facings had blown and eroded in places to the full length of the wall. The loss adjuster 
thought the wall had evidence of significant lateral movement, and thought this was due to 
an inherent lack of restraint which had been further exacerbated by several factors  such as 
age-related deterioration/wear and tear, direct tree root action from adjacent trees, and 
hydrostatic pressure with no allowance for weep holes at the base of the wall. 
The loss adjuster noted the damage was long-standing with several attempts to repair the 
wall, together with localised rebuilding in places - which they thought had been completed 
prior to the policy starting in 2018. The loss adjuster concluded the damage was not due to 
subsidence, or any other insured peril in the policy.
As engineer (that Ill call Company C) carried out an inspection. Company C said the wall 
was in poor condition with significant lateral displacement to the top of the wall, and 
associated vertical cracks/fractures throughout. They thought the retaining wall wasnt 
structurally adequate under the loading conditions. They pointed out that there was a 
significant amount of vegetation directly behind the walls and thought this was creating an 
additional lateral load on the retaining wall. 
Having considered the above evidence, it seems the damage has been caused by lateral 
movement rather than subsidence.
As representative say they accept there wasnt subsidence, and instead think the damage 
has been caused by a third partys trees. 
I accept that the nearby vegetation was one of the causes of the lateral movement, but this 
isnt an insured event under the policy.
The policy does include cover for any other accident. The policy doesnt define whats 
meant by accident, and so in such cases, this service applies the ordinary everyday 
meaning, which is something unforeseen and unintentional.
The damage to the wall could potentially fall under this. However, under the same section, 
the policy says it excludes damage caused by gradual deterioration, as well as wear and 
tear. RSAs loss adjuster thought the damage to the wall was long-standing. Given the poor 
condition of the wall observed by both RSAs loss adjuster and Company C, that doesnt 
seem unreasonable. And so I think it was appropriate for RSA to conclude that the damage 
happened gradually. The claim would therefore be excluded from this section of cover. 
Im therefore satisfied that RSA acted reasonably in turning down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman