DRN-4121176
The complaint
Mx D is a sole trader, trading as N. They complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) treated them unfairly and in discriminatory way.
What happened
Mx D told us:
N held a business current account and Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with RBS, it wasnt 
a personal account, but the bank was writing to them in their personal name which it 
hadnt been given permission to do. 
When theyd called the bank on 16 January 2023, the call handler had asked for a 
Christian name which was discriminatory.
Theyd asked for all correspondence to be via post, but RBS had emailed and called 
them. 
The bank had given their account details to a third-party which was a data protection 
breach as they hadnt given permission for this.  
The bank had requested an unreasonable amount of information to renew the 
overdraft facility within a short timeframe. 
The bank had cancelled the overdraft but was debiting fees and interest unfairly on 
the account and without permission. 
RBS told us:
In 2022, Mx D missed two repayments on the BBL, so arrears emails were 
automatically sent. A PAYG option was applied but they havent maintained the 
repayments. 
Mx Ds overdraft came up for its annual review, but due to affordability concerns it 
wasnt automatically renewed. As the overdraft balance hadnt been repaid, the 
account had been passed to its Specialised Business Management Team (SBM) 
and Mx D had been notified by email in November 2022. The applicable fees and 
charges they were incurring were therefore in line with the actions taken by the 
bank.
The third party Mx D mentions is the SBM, but this is part of the bank and not a third 
party. Mx D hasnt provided the information required so it is following its debt 
recovery process through the SBM. 
It acknowledged Mx Ds preferred method of contact was via post, however it was 
able to contact them using any details held on file including phone or email  so it 
hadnt done anything wrong. However, it agreed it had said it would remove Mx Ds 
email address from its records going forward and hadnt done so correctly, so it paid 
£50 compensation for the inconvenience caused and had now updated this. 
When speaking to its agent on the phone, Mx D didnt confirm their personal details 
despite being requested and clarification being sought. It apologised if Mx D had 
been caused offense by the use of the words Christian name as a further form of 
clarification, however it wasnt intentional and was a common reference term which 
had been used. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought that RBS had taken 
reasonable actions when reviewing and then removing Ns overdraft. He also didnt think 
RBS had breached Mx Ds personal data as the SBM was part of the bank, or that it was 
unreasonable for the bank to want to verify Mx D personally. The investigator also didnt 
think RBS had discriminated against Mx D as he thought the agent was simply trying to 
clarify the information needed to verify them. He also said the £50 RBS had paid due to not 
using Mx Ds preferred method of contact was enough to put things right. 
Mx D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said if they 
emailed RBS, it didnt mean the bank could email back if their preference was postal 
correspondence  nor should they have to provide financial information to the bank via email 
as they consider these requests fraudulent. They also didnt agree the charges had been 
applied fairly or that the bank hadnt discriminated against them by asking for a Christian 
name.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mx D says RBS breached their rights by allowing the SBM to have access to their, but I dont 
agree. RBS has told us that the SBM is part of the bank, and I have no reason to doubt 
thats the case. Furthermore, Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which Mx D 
agreed to when they opened an account for N. Those terms say RBS may share information 
with third parties such as debt collection agencies if it needs to do so in order to carry out its 
lawful business (that is, to request repayment of an outstanding debt). So I cant reasonably 
say it did anything wrong here. 
Mx D also told us that they think its unfair that RBS contacted them by email rather than 
their preference of post. I acknowledge Mx D has their contact preference with the bank set 
to post, but this is a preference, and it doesnt mean that the bank is restricted from 
contacting them in other ways. The terms and conditions of Ns account with RBS allow the 
bank to contact them using any method available to it for which the bank holds up to date 
information, this includes email, secure messaging, and calls. Given that RBS was often 
replying to Mx D in the contact method they had used, I cant say the bank acted unfairly. I 
can see that RBS agreed to remove Mx Ds email address from its records, and in error this 
didnt take effect across all its systems which caused Mx D inconvenience. However, Ive 
seen that RBS apologised, confirmed this has now been actioned and paid them £50 
compensation. So I think RBS has done enough here to put things right. 
Mx D says that N was charged a fee for two transactions which debited the account on 16 
and 17 January 2023 which was unfair. They say that Ns overdraft was still showing as 
available through online banking until 17 January, so these transactions were debited from 
available funds. They also say that it was unfair of RBS to continue to debit interest 
payments to the BBL from Ns account without their authority. 
However, Ive seen that RBS wrote to Mx D to say that if they didnt provide the information 
required for the bank to reassess their overdraft renewal, the facility would be removed on 
16 January. Whilst I recognise the overdraft may have been still showing on online banking 
after this date, Mx D was aware that they hadnt provided the information requested by the 
bank and therefore this facility was no longer available to them and was in the process of being removed by the bank. So I dont think it was unreasonable that RBS charged N a fee 
for making these payments  the alternative would have been for it to return the payments 
as unpaid which may have had a detrimental impact on Ns credit file. Ive also seen that the 
interest payments which were debited to the account were for outstanding liabilities for Ns 
current account and BBL which Mx D had agreed to within the two borrowing agreements, 
so I also dont think it was unfair for RBS to debit these from Ns account.
Mx D says they feel RBS has discriminated against them as they were asked for their 
Christian name when calling to discuss Ns account and they feel the term personal name 
should have been used instead. I can understand why Mx D feels this way but having looked 
at all the evidence I dont think RBS has discriminated against them. Nor do I think RBS has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ive listed to the call between RBS and Mx D, and I think the 
call handler was simply trying to clarify the information needed from Mx D to verify them as 
the caller so they could discuss Ns account information. So Im not persuaded that RBS 
intended to cause any distress or behave in a discriminatory way. I hope that it helps Mx D 
to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into their concerns.
I also recognise that Mx D says that RBS shouldnt have asked them for personal 
information as the account is in Ns name as a business, not a personal account. However, I 
think its worth noting here that N is set up as a sole trader business. A sole trader business 
doesn't have any legal identity separate to its owner - as a sole trader is a self-employed 
person who owns and runs their own business as an individual. So I think its reasonable 
that RBS were trying to verify Mx D personally to check they had the correct authority to 
discuss Ns account, rather than just Ns business details. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mx D as I recognise they feel strongly about this complaint. But based 
on the evidence available, Im satisified that RBS has dealt with matters fairly and done 
enough to put things right. So I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman