DRN-4418945
The complaint
Ms P has complained that when she made a claim for a lost phone, American International 
Group UK Ltd (AIG) agreed to replace it under the terms of her policy, but their courier failed 
to deliver it.  AIG say there is nothing they can do as the courier says they delivered the 
phone to the right address. 
 
What happened
Ms P contacted AIG in February 2023 after she lost her phone to make a claim for a 
replacement device under her tech pack policy. 
The claim was accepted and Ms P paid the excess of £179 and provided the address for the 
replacement phone to be delivered to. 
Ms P was at work when AIG say the phone was delivered on 21 March at 18.48. The courier 
has provided a photo of the delivery. 
When Ms P returned from work that evening she couldnt find the phone. The next morning 
when she asked her housemates, they said there had been no delivery. 
Ms P complained but AIG said that they were satisfied that the phone had been delivered to 
the correct address by the courier and refused to replace it. They did, however, make a 
compensation payment of £60 in respect of the delays in investigating the issue. 
Ms P was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators has looked into Ms Ps complaint and thought AIGs response was 
fair.     
Ms P disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
I have to think about whether AIG have properly fulfilled their obligations under the terms of 
the policy in this case. 
Having thought about this, Im minded to uphold Ms Ps complaint and I will explain why.
A claim was accepted, Ms P agreed to pay the policy excess, and she was advised of a 
delivery date for the following day. 
On 22 March Ms P contacted AIG to advise that delivery hadnt take place. AIG raised an 
investigation straight away with their delivery contractor to investigate. The delivery 
contractor has provided two pieces of evidence of delivery. As no signature was required for 
the delivery, they have provided a screen shot showing that no signature was required but 
logging a time of 18.48 and they have provided a photograph. They have also sent a Google 
Maps screenshot of the address. 
Ive considered the evidence provided by AIG and Im not satisfied that it shows that the 
device was delivered correctly. 
As no signature was required, the most significant evidence would be the photograph of 
delivery. The photo provided is dark and blurry showing a white parcel on the floor and a 
persons foot is visible. The address of the recipient isnt readable on the label, and the 
package could be on the floor anywhere. There are no identifiable features in the picture to 
show that it is Ms Ps house - no street name, house number, or coloured door that could be 
identified as Ms Ps. There is no picture of the alleged recipient. 
The Google Maps screenshots of the address dont assist as they only show the street view 
of the house. They dont prove that anything was delivered there and they arent timed or 
dated.   
And so on balance, Im not satisfied that AIG have provided evidence of proper delivery of 
the replacement device, and as such they havent fulfilled their contract.    
AIG have confirmed that the device hasnt been barred but it has been blacklisted for retail 
sales from 2 March 2023. They are unable to confirm if it has been used. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has accepted my decision, but AIG havent responded, and so in light of the above, Im 
making my final decision in line with my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I think that AIG should provide a further replacement device.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Ms Ps complaint and direct American International 
Group UK Limited to put things right as outlined above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman