DRN-3293035
The complaint
Mr G complains that he wasnt given enough information about a payment holiday he took 
from his hire purchase agreement with Premium Plan Limited (PPL). 
What happened
In June 2018 Mr G acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with PPL. The 
car was registered in March 2014, which means it was about four years old and had 
travelled around 59,114 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was 
£8,998, Mr G paid a deposit of £1,398 which meant that the total amount financed on this 
agreement was £7,600 payable over 60 months.
Mr G says that as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic hed been placed on furlough, so he 
arranged a two month payment holiday with PPL, and for his agreement to be extended by 
two months to account for the deferred period. Mr G says that when he was around halfway 
through his contract, he requested to voluntary terminate (VT) the agreement. However, Mr 
G says PPL told him he was still liable for the two deferred payments from his payment 
holiday. 
PPL confirmed to us that Mr G requested a payment holiday for May and June 2020, on the 
basis that his agreement would be extended by two months to account for the deferred 
payments and added interest. PPL also confirmed that in April 2021 Mr G requested to VT 
his agreement and was advised that he had arrears of £721.01 which included the two 
deferred payments and interest. 
Mr G was unhappy about the arrears on his agreement so complained to PPL. Mr G said 
PPL told him about the added interest but didnt explain that hed have to make-up the two 
deferred payments in order to VT his agreement. He also said that he didnt use the car 
during the payment holiday period, so felt he shouldnt have to pay for it. 
Mr G said that in May 2021 he decided to pay the outstanding amount of £721.01 in order to 
end the agreement, but believes PPL should reimburse it to him.
On 7 May 2021 PPL sent their final response to Mr Gs complaint, they didnt uphold his 
complaint. PPL explained that as part of the VT, Mr G was still liable for any outstanding 
payments which included his deferred payments and interest. PPL said this was in their 
terms and conditions.
Unhappy with their decision Mr G brought his complaint to this service for investigation. Our 
investigator gave their view that PPL hadnt done anything wrong in the circumstances, and 
so didnt ask them to do anything more.
Unhappy with our investigators view, Mr G responded to say that he was told the term of his 
agreement would be extended, however as the investigators view remained unchanged, Mr 
G asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance for 
businesses in relation to motor finance agreements. The guidance was applicable in the 
exceptional circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact it had on 
motor finance consumers. So, I think it was fair and right that PPL offered Mr G a payment 
holiday.
However, the FCA also has 11 principles for businesses which all firms are expected to 
follow. Principle seven says that businesses must communicate to their customers in a way 
that is clear, fair and not misleading.
So, Ive considered whether PPL have acted fairly in how they informed Mr G of the terms 
surrounding the VT of his agreement. 
My starting point is that Mr G was provided with information within the agreement, about 
early termination. Under the section of the hire purchase agreement, termination: your rights, 
it says the business, PPL in this case, would be entitled to half the total amount payable 
under the agreement, which is confirmed as £7,589.60. It then goes on to say, if you have 
already paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken reasonable 
care of the goods, you will not have to pay any more. I think the inclusion of overdue 
instalments in these terms, would have reasonably informed Mr G that in order to VT his 
agreement hed have to repay any arrears or outstanding payments. 
PPL provided us with correspondence that had been sent to Mr G during the course of his 
agreement with them. In May and In June 2020 when Mr G requested the payment holidays, 
PPL sent him a letter on each occasion confirming the details of the payment holiday and 
advised that the payment holiday would be considered as arrears on the agreement. But that 
they wouldnt affected his credit file as they were given as a result of the Covid pandemic. 
Having considered this, Im satisfied that Mr G would have known that the payment holidays 
would be added to the end of the agreement and would be considered as payment arrears.  
PPL have also provided us with call recordings from May and June 2020, when Mr G 
requested to set-up the payment holidays with them. Having listened to both phone calls, 
Im satisfied Mr G was told that interest would be added to the deferred payments and that 
theyd be added to the end the agreement. During the phone calls Mr G didnt enquire 
about VT, so in the circumstances I dont think its unreasonable that PPL didnt go into 
detail about how the deferred payments would be affected in the event of a VT.
Overall, I think Mr G was given enough information about what it would mean to VT his 
agreement. I acknowledge that Mr G says he was told the term of the agreement would be 
extended by two months, and that hed kept the agreement running for half of the full term, 
however, the information about early termination was provided in the terms and conditions of the agreement where it made reference to overdue payments being due in addition to 
half the amount of the agreement; and the information PPL provided to Mr G in the 
correspondence confirming the payment holidays, explained that the deferred payments 
would be considered as arrears. 
So, from the evidence provided, Im satisfied that Mr G was given enough information to 
know that the deferred payments were being added to the end of the term as arrears, and 
would be payable as an additional amount, as detailed within the correspondence from PPL 
and on the VT invoice provided by them.
Having considered that PPL gave Mr G enough information about the VT, Im satisfied that 
they acted fairly in the circumstances and so I wont be asking them to do anything more in 
relation to this complaint. 
I acknowledge Mr G says he didnt use the car during the period of the payment holidays. 
However, as the car remained his responsibility and in his possession, Im satisfied that Mr 
G was able to use the car at the time if hed wanted to; and so I dont think itd be reasonable 
for PPL to reimburse or waive those payments.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Premium 
Plan Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman