DRN-3545126
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs H complain that London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) asked them for 
proof of ID which it didnt need, then approached their solicitor without permission. They 
wanted some of their fees returned, and compensation of £500.
What happened
Mr B told us that he applied for a mortgage for him and Mrs H, through L&C. He said he was 
told the best deal for him was one with an arrangement fee and valuation fee. But Mr B said 
he now thought L&C had misadvised him in order to secure a higher commission for itself. 
Mr B also said L&C had asked him for ID, but the lender confirmed no ID was required and 
an offer had already been made. Mr B said he was also asked for proof of where the deposit 
had come from, but he didnt think that L&C was being honest with him about why it was 
asking for documentation. And he said L&C then approached his solicitors for this 
information, without his permission. He said that luckily his solicitor didnt pass over any 
information, but he was very angry that L&C had done this without telling him, and after it 
had said it couldnt do this. 
Mr B said L&C caused him and his family stress and frustration during the purchase of their 
new house. And he said he was sure that he could have got a better deal without paying the 
valuation fee and solicitors costs. So he wanted some of the costs returned, which he said 
were a £350 valuation fee and £175 lender solicitors fee. And he also wanted £500 in 
compensation for the stress and worry caused.
L&C didnt think it should pay Mr B what he wanted. It said it was sorry it had asked Mr B 
and Mrs H for ID although the lender didnt need it. It had updated its request as soon as it 
realised this wasnt necessary. 
L&C didnt think it had made a mistake in contacting Mr B and Mrs Hs solicitors. It said it did 
need proof of where the deposit had come from, and it had been asking for this for a while. 
Mr B hadnt sent it, but he had told L&C that hed shared this information with his solicitors. 
L&C said that its allowed to communicate directly with Mr Bs solicitors, in the same way as 
it communicates directly with the mortgage lender. But it did say it could have told Mr B it 
was going to do this, as a courtesy, and it was sorry it hadnt done so. 
L&C said it hadnt received any formal complaint from Mr B and Mrs H about the cost of their 
mortgage, and whether any other product would have been cheaper for them. But it did 
provide some information comparing products they could have taken.
L&C offered to pay Mr B and Mrs H £25 in compensation. It wouldnt do more than that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr B and Mrs H 
were inconvenienced when L&C accepted it had asked for ID by mistake. But L&C wasnt 
wrong to ask for information on the deposit. L&C had asked for that because its supposed to 
do these checks for the lender, and the lender can ask to see the information L&C has relied 
on. L&C said its also got to have this information, so it can show why it recommended a 
particular product. And there was no breach of data protection, because Mr Bs solicitor 
hadnt shared any information with L&C. 
Our investigator thought that a payment of £25 was reasonable for what had gone wrong 
here. And he said that Mr B and Mrs H would need to complain to L&C about the fees and 
the suitability of the product, before our service could consider this. But he did share with 
Mr B and Mrs H the information L&C had sent us, about the total cost of this mortgage, and 
the other products that were available to them.
Mr B said our service hadnt understood the complaint properly. He said that L&C hadnt said 
it needed the deposit evidence for its records, it said this was for the lender. And the same 
for the ID, where L&C said the lender needed this. L&C was wrong about that, which is why 
he was worried about supplying evidence of his deposit to L&C too. And he also repeated 
that a better deal was available at the time, which L&C had warned him he wouldnt be able 
to get.
Mr B said that there was no data protection breach because of steps taken by his solicitors. 
Otherwise the action L&C took would have resulted in a breach. And L&C had caused him 
stress and frustration in that process.
Mr B wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that Mr B and Mrs H were inconvenienced by being asked for ID although their 
lender didnt actually need this. Im pleased to see that L&C has apologised to them for this. 
Mr B also complains that L&C approached their solicitors to ask for proof of where the 
deposit funds had come from. He said that would have been a data protection breach, if his 
solicitors hadnt acted properly in checking with him. 
Our service isnt the expert on data protection, so I wont reach any conclusion here on 
whether L&C were entitled to ask for this information under data protection law, or not. Mr B 
can raise this issue with the Information Commissioners Office if he would like someone to 
look into this specific point. 
Our service has to focus on the facts of this case. And here, I can see that L&C had asked 
Mr B a number of times for information on the source of funds. I can also see that what L&C 
said then is consistent with what it says now  that the lender relies on it to hold this 
information, so it does need to have it. Ive no reason to doubt what L&C says about that. 
I can also see that on 9 February, Mr B himself emailed L&C, to suggest that it contacted his 
solicitors or the lender directly to ask about proof of the source of funds. So I dont think it 
was unreasonable or unfair when L&C did later do this. 
L&C has offered Mr B and Mrs H £25 to say sorry for any inconvenience when they were 
asked for ID unnecessarily, and to say sorry for not alerting them, as a matter of courtesy, that it would be approaching their solicitors for information. I know that Mr B and Mrs H were 
concerned about whether L&C was being honest with them, and they told us this caused 
stress and frustration, but Ive not seen anything to suggest that L&C has acted dishonestly. 
I think that the offer L&C has already made does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this part of their complaint, considering the impact on Mr B and Mrs H of these two issues.
It doesnt look as if Mr B and Mrs H have accepted that offer, so Ill make this award. (Ill also 
allow L&C to count any money its already paid towards this, in case the offer has been 
accepted and paid.) But, although I do understand that Mr B and Mrs H will be disappointed, 
I dont think that L&C has to do more than this.
I know that Mr B is also very concerned that L&C didnt offer him the best deal for him and 
Mrs H. He thinks L&C chose something that would benefit it, not them. But L&C has told us it 
hasnt yet received any complaint from Mr B and Mrs H about the mortgage product which 
was recommended to them and the fees they were charged. 
Our service can only look at a complaint once the business involved has had a chance to 
respond on that issue. I know our investigator passed some information on this from L&C 
over to Mr B and Mrs H. But I wont reach any conclusion here on the recommendation 
made to Mr B and Mrs H, or on the fees they paid. Mr B and Mrs H can discuss this with 
L&C in the first instance, if they would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that London and Country Mortgages Ltd must pay Mr B and Mrs H £25 in 
compensation. London and Country Mortgages Ltd can count any compensation it has 
already paid, towards that total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman