DRN-3005082
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complained that their leak wasnt repaired under their home emergency policy 
with Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral). They thought the policy had been mis-
sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O claimed under their home emergency policy when their radiator was leaking, 
which they said led to a failure of the heating and hot water system. Admiral assigned an 
engineer who isolated the leak and informed Mr and Mrs O the heating and hot water was up 
and running. The engineer advised Mr and Mrs O that they would need a new radiator.
Two days later, Mr and Mrs O contacted Admiral to say the radiator was leaking again. 
Admiral said it thought the radiator valve mustve been turned back on as the radiator was 
filling up again. Admiral said it could send another engineer to visit but if the diagnosis was 
the same as before Mr and Mrs O would be liable for a call out charge. Mr and Mrs O were 
unhappy with Admiral only offering to stop the leak as opposed to replacing the radiator, so 
they cancelled the second engineers visit that had been arranged and replaced the radiator 
using their own contractor at a cost of £574. Mr and Mrs O would like Admiral to refund 
these costs, as well as £30 for electricity costs incurred whilst using electric heaters and a 
further £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Admiral explained to Mr and Mrs O that the policy wording clearly states that replacement of 
radiators and valves are not covered, so it was not prepared to reimburse the costs Mr and 
Mrs O had incurred or their claim for compensation. 
Mr and Mrs O thought their policy was mis-sold. Admiral explained that the welcome pack 
and terms and conditions contained all the details of the policy, and it is a customers 
responsibility to check that the policy suits their requirements.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said the policy only covered a 
temporary repair and he thought Admiral had done this. He also thought the documents Mr 
and Mrs O received were clear and so didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs 
O disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the relevant terms and conditions to understand what the policy covered in 
the circumstances of this complaint. The following are key extracts from the terms and 
conditions of what cover was provided by the policy. 
the emergency work will aim to complete a temporary repair of the damage caused by 
specific events occurring within your property.
repairs and/or work immediately required to stop further damage being caused by the
emergency. You may need to arrange further repairs and/or work to permanently fix the
issue, at your own cost.
I think the terms of the policy are clear and support what Admiral has said. Its responsibility 
is to provide a temporary repair to the emergency and any permanent fixes are at Mr and 
Mrs Os expense. Having examined the exclusions of the policy, I think this is reinforced, as 
one of the exclusions in the policy is:
repair/replacement of convector heaters, inhibitors, water tanks, radiators, radiator valves 
and hot water cylinders.
Admiral have declined to pay the costs Mr and Mrs O have incurred in getting their radiator 
fixed. I think this is fair, as these costs arent covered by the policy. So, I dont uphold this 
aspect of the complaint. The additional energy costs arent specifically covered in the policy, 
only the cost of electrical heaters, so I think Admiral have been reasonable in declining these 
costs.
Mr and Mrs O thought the policy was mis-sold. Admiral have shared the policy documents. I 
think the information Admiral provided is clear and it has provided a service that meets the 
requirements of its policy. I have also listened to the calls between Mr and Mrs O and 
Admiral. I havent heard any evidence to suggest Admiral ever deviated from the service it 
was expected to provide under its terms and conditions. Therefore, having read the 
documentation available and listened to the calls, I havent seen any evidence to suggest the 
product was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs O didnt think the temporary fix stopped the leak. I have considered this. I think 
the leak was initially stopped. If it wasnt I think Mr and Mrs O wouldve had said so, which 
they havent. They said the radiator had started leaking again. Admiral thought the valve had 
been turned back on, since it provided the temporary fix. I cant say for sure what caused the 
leak to start again. However, I am persuaded the leak was initially fixed. Admiral had 
arranged for a second visit to take place by another engineer, but Mr and Mrs O chose to 
cancel this so they could have the radiator replaced by their own contractor. So, I dont think 
its fair to say Admiral didnt fix the leak, as it did stop the leak initially and wasnt given the 
opportunity to reassess the leak the second time. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint 
and I dont require Admiral to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman