DRN-4423225
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about the way Santander Consumer (UK) plc T/A Santander 
Consumer Finance (SCUK) dealt with a voluntary termination of a conditional sale 
agreement. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs D entered into a conditional sale agreement with SCUK to acquire a new 
holiday home. The cash price was £52,610 and Mrs D made an advanced payment of 
£5,300. 
I can see that in January 2023 Mrs D spoke to SCUK about voluntary termination of the 
agreement. SCUKs notes say it sent a text to her about it and sent a settlement letter. Mrs D 
emailed SCUK on 27 January 2023 and saying she was looking to make a voluntary 
termination on the holiday home. SCUK emailed her back straight away to ask she resent 
the email saying I would like to voluntary my finance agreement [sic]. 
It looks like Mrs D spoke to SCUK again on 31 January 2023 saying she wanted to voluntary 
terminate. And SCUKs notes say it asked her to resend the email with the exact wording to 
make this clear. 
Mrs D cleared some arrears the following day and SCUKs notes say she would resend the 
voluntary termination email. SCUKs notes indicate Mrs D wrote to SCUK on 8 February 
saying I would like to voluntary my finance agreement [sic]. SCUK wrote back again straight 
away apologising and asking her to resend her email saying I would like to voluntary 
terminate my finance agreement. It looks like Mrs D spoke to SCUK and explained she 
wanted to proceed with the voluntary termination. SCUK says this was noted on 8 February 
2023. The notes say shed removed personal items but had not given the keys back yet and 
SCUK asked her to do that within the next 10 days. It looks like she also spoke to SCUK 
about the outstanding balance.  
SCUK got in touch with the holiday home site over the next few days. And Mrs D spoke to 
SCUK on 13 February 2023 saying she thought shed been misadvised about what to do 
with the keys. The notes say she was told previously someone would collect the keys but 
was then told to drop them off. She lives two and a half hours away from the holiday home 
site and when she went to drop the keys off the site wouldnt take them because it hadnt 
heard from SCUK. So Mrs D raised a complaint and SCUK said it would be in touch. 
I can see SCUK got back in touch with the holiday home site again the same day Mrs D 
complained. It looks like there was some confusion with what site the holiday home was on. 
Mrs D spoke to SCUK on 15 February 2023 saying she was worried shed left the site over a 
week ago and that she would be liable for any excess wear and tear while she wasnt there. 
SCUK continued to liaise with the holiday home site over the next few days. Mrs D 
complained again on 17 February 2023 saying shed not received any paperwork from it. 
SCUK were having some issues getting things resolved with the holiday home site. Mrs D 
contacted SCUK to say shed spoken to the site and that they were waiting for paperwork 
from SCUK. Mrs D also explained she was unhappy shed incurred extra site fees. SCUKs 
notes say that if Mrs D called back in to tell her SCUK had sent an invoice to the holiday 
home site and that she could call the site and arrange to post the keys to the relevant 
contact. The notes also said to ask Mrs D for evidence of the fees shed incurred as a result 
of the delays. 
There was further correspondence between SCUK and the holiday home site towards the 
end of February 2023. Mrs D also wanted an update and SCUK told her the issue it was 
having was that it didnt have an authorised contact at the holiday home site to deal with. 
Mrs D handed the keys back and said shed had to pay site fees for December, January and 
February. SCUKs notes say she told it shed paid £2,900 for the three months. There was 
60% off the years fees. SCUK asked for evidence. 
Mrs D wanted an update to her complaint. She was unhappy she spent weekends trying to 
resolve things and that SCUK gave her the wrong wording to use for voluntary termination. 
SCUK offered her £400, but she was unhappy with this. She says this just covered the two 
round trips to the holiday home site and not the misinformation and delays. 
Mrs D referred her complaint to our service to consider. She said the process took longer 
than it should have done and that it led to an extra month of site fees to the holiday home 
site. She requested SCUK pay her a further £1,000 to cover the site fees she incurred and 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked into things and said he thought the compensation was fair but that 
SCUK should reimburse Mrs D for any additional costs she incurred as a result of the 
delays. SCUK agreed. Mrs D requested £800 towards the site fees which should have been 
paid by the end of January, £270 for the cost of having to make two trips to the holiday home 
site, and £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. She also supplied information 
about the years site fees. 
Our investigator considered the further evidence but didnt think the delays had led to an 
increase in site fees. And he thought the compensation already offered was broadly fair.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Mrs D is complaining about the way SCUK dealt with the voluntary termination of a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service 
has the power to deal with complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Its not in dispute there was some misinformation given by SCUK and there were some 
delays in resolving the voluntary termination. Ultimately Mrs D thinks matter took around a 
month longer than they should have. Shes unhappy she had to make two visits to the 
holiday home site, and she says shes lost out by having to pay higher site fees than she 
would have done had the voluntary termination been carried out promptly. 
SCUK has offered Mrs D £400 compensation. While I appreciate Mrs D doesnt agree, I 
think this is broadly fair in all the circumstances. It took around a month to resolve the 
voluntary termination. There were several emails and telephone calls back and forth which of 
course would have been time consuming. While I cant hold SCUK responsible for mistakes 
the holiday home site may have made, Mrs D just wanted to voluntary terminate the 
agreement, so Im sure she wanted this done efficiently. And I think SCUK has contributed to 
some of the delays. 
I imagine Mrs D was very frustrated it wasnt easier to resolve things. But, in the round, I 
think £400 is a fair amount of compensation for what went wrong given things were resolved within around a month. I appreciate Mrs D wants SCUK to cover a pence per mile for the 
trips she had to make. Thats not something Im going to direct it to do because Im 
considering things holistically. I dont find I have the grounds to direct SCUK to do more. 
Ive next thought about the losses Mrs D says shes incurred. This is mainly in relation to the 
site fees. Mrs D says shes paid for a month more than she should have done. Based on 
what Ive said above, the earliest Ive seen that Mrs D could have voluntarily terminated the 
agreement was on 27 January 2023 when she emailed SCUK saying she was looking to 
make a voluntary termination. But to be fair to SCUK, it did email back straight away asking 
for different wording  albeit there was an error in what it said. It wasnt until 8 February 2023 
that Mrs D wrote back in asking to voluntary terminate  which is the date SCUK noted.
There was always going to be some extra work needed with regards to removing belongings 
and giving back the key. Mrs D paid her outstanding liability (to the holiday home site) on 
24 February 2023. So the delays didnt take a whole month, but I think its fair to say it took a 
bit longer than it should have.
The site fees for the year were £7,841.96 and the annual rates were £690.12. This totals 
£8,532.08. Mrs D has shown us the final invoice from 24 February 2023 which says the 
amount outstanding on her account was £8,187.96. But the holiday home site gave a site 
fees rebate of £4,705.17 and a rates rebate of £517.59. This left Mrs D with £2,965.20 to 
pay. 
Ive not got enough evidence to determine how the rebate was calculated. It looks like Mrs D 
paid for around a third of the year. But based on the evidence I currently have I cant simply 
direct SCUK to pay back Mrs D for a certain number of days by calculating things myself. 
The important thing is that, as it stands, Ive not got evidence the delays have led to a 
financial loss to Mrs D. 
If Mrs D can obtain sufficient evidence that she would have received a larger rebate had she 
settled things with the holiday home site on 27 January 2023 I think it fair that this amount is 
reimbursed to Mrs D by SCUK. But if shes unable to obtain that, I consider SCUKs offer of 
£400 to be fair in all the circumstances. I appreciate 27 January 2023 might not have been 
the exact date she ended up settling thing with the holiday home site. I suspect it might have 
taken a few more days. But I think it seems like a fair date to use given what happened. And 
SCUK has previously indicated it would agree to this. 
Mrs D should reply to this provisional decision with the evidence Ive mentioned, if shes able 
to.
I cant see we received a response from SCUK. Mrs D responded to reiterate SCUK had 
given her wrong information about handing back the keys and that she had to go to the 
holiday home site three times. She said there shouldnt have been confusion around which 
site the holiday home was on. She said the process should have been finished by the end of 
January 2023. And she also supplied evidence to show if shed left the site in January, she 
would have received a 70% rebate of pitch/site fees (excluding rates), instead of the 60% 
rebate she received from leaving in February. 
I asked the investigator to write back to explain to SCUK that Mrs D supplied evidence of 
what she would have received as a rebate if shed ended the site agreement in January as 
opposed to February. I explained that the years site fees were £7,841.96. Mrs D received a 
60% rebate (£4,705.17) but I calculated that I think she could have received a 70% rebate 
(£5,489.37) if shed ended things in January. I thought SCUK should reimburse Mrs D the 
difference - £784. 20). I thought this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint and it was in line with what SCUK had previously agreed to. I cant see weve had a 
response from SCUK.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mrs D for her response. Ive set out in my provisional decision why I think the 
£400 compensation is broadly fair. Im not going to go over that again. I also explained why 
its not totally clear Mrs D would have finalised everything in January, but given the saving 
for her if she did, theres a good chance she may have done. I give Mrs D the benefit of the 
doubt. And, in the round, I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Mrs D to receive the 
difference in the rebate as well as the compensation. Im not going to direct SCUK to pay 
anything else on top of this. 
Putting things right
Santander Consumer (UK) plc T/A Santander Consumer Finance should:
Pay Mrs D £400 compensation
Reimburse Mrs D £784.20 in relation to the site fees rebate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) plc T/A 
Santander Consumer Finance to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman