DRN-3740846
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain that Santander UK Plc arent able to locate the funds they held in an 
account with them.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M approached a third party company regarding an account they held with Abbey 
National (Santander later took control of the account). They have possession of a passbook 
for the account and the passbook shows the balance of the account on 29 April 2000 was 
£3,107.12. Mrs and Mr M said Santander initially said they couldnt locate the account. They 
made a complaint to Santander.
Santander did not uphold the complaint. They said that they had managed to locate the 
account and that it was closed on 25 April 2016 with a nil balance. They said that due to the 
time that had elapsed, there was very little information they could provide Mrs and Mr M, but 
they had managed to locate the last three years of account summaries for them, which they 
attached with their letter, with all of them showing a nil account balance. Mrs and Mr M 
brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said a balance showing in an old passbook 
isnt a reliable indicator of an accounts current status and that the passbook only showed the 
accounts status as of April 2000. He said Santander had provided statements to show that 
between 2014-2016, the account balance was nil. Our investigator said the passbook wasnt 
up to date as there were further transactions after April 2000, which werent updated in the 
passbook. Mrs and Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mrs and Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business 
what their procedures should be for retaining transaction data. It would be the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Santander to 
make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal 
dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed their customer.
While Mrs and Mr M are in the possession of a passbook for the account, this is not proof 
that the account still has funds in the account. It simply shows that at a point in time the 
account had funds in it at a particular time and that a passbook was in use on the account. 
I have thought about what I would expect Santander to do in these circumstances and if they 
have treated Mrs and Mr M fairly in their investigation and I think they have. They took the 
available information from them and conducted a search of their systems, this showed the 
account had been closed on 25 April 2016, with a nil balance. Santander have also sent Mrs 
and Mr M account summary statements from 6 April 2013-5 April 2016 which showed there 
was a nil balance on the account during this timeframe. Santander have told us that the last 
transaction on the account was in 2010. But due to the time thats passed, Santander arent 
able to provide any more information about this transaction. As this date was over 12 years 
ago, I cant say its unreasonable that Santander does not have any further information about 
this transaction.
I do understand Mrs and Mr Ms strength of feeling but considering everything Ive seen I 
dont think Santander have treated them unfairly. Im satisfied Santander have looked and 
shown the account was closed in April 2016 with a nil balance and that no transactions had 
occurred prior to the closure since at least March 2010. Due to the time that has passed 
since then, they do not have any other information regarding this transaction. So it follows 
that I dont require Santander to do anything else. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman