DRN-3443583
The complaint
Mrs P says HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, mis-handled the replacement of her 
existing debit card.
What happened
HSBC told Mrs P it would be replacing her existing debit card. By mid-July 2021, Mrs P still 
hadnt received the replacement card and called HSBC to let it know. As a result, HSBC re-
sent a new card in the post but, unfortunately, Mrs P was abroad when it arrived at her 
home.
While abroad, around two weeks later, Mrs P attempted to use her existing card to pay for a 
food shop, but the card was declined by the supermarket. Mrs P immediately returned to her 
holiday home and called HSBC for help. HSBC told her the existing card would only continue 
to work for 30 days from the date of the letter sent with the new card. It agreed to delay the 
expiry of her existing card in the circumstances until the end of August 2021, so she could 
continue to use it while she made her own arrangements for the new card to be forwarded 
on to her from her home in the UK.
Mrs P complained to HSBC. She said she didnt know her existing card would be blocked 
despite having called HSBC before going abroad to chase her new card. Mrs P said she felt 
humiliated at the supermarket when her card was declined. She said she had to make a 
second journey to the supermarket once HSBC had extended her existing card and that this 
had cost her both time and money.
HSBC apologised for the service Mrs P had received since, it said, it hadnt confirmed to her 
that her existing card would expire within 30 days of the new card being issued when she 
called to chase. In recognition of the frustration caused, HSBC credited her account with 
£30. 
Mrs P said HSBCs offer was insulting but was told by HSBC that it couldnt do any more for 
her. As such, she complained to our service.   
Our investigator assessed the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
They thought HSBC could have been clearer when Mrs P spoke to it before going on holiday 
about when her existing card would expire. But they felt HSBC had mentioned the 30-day 
period in several emails to her. The investigator thought HSBCs response to the complaint 
was fair in that it had tried to help her while she was abroad. And because it had also paid 
her £30 as compensation for the frustration and upset caused, it didnt have to pay her more.
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators findings. She said HSBC should have extended the 30-
day period when she called in mid-July 2021 to confirm shed not received her new card. 
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh and reach a decision. 
What Id provisionally decided  and responses
On reviewing the complaint afresh, I initially considered that the complaint should be upheld. 
Through the investigator, I asked HSBC if it was willing to pay Mrs P £70 as compensation in 
addition to the £30 it had already paid her.
In summary, I believed HSBC should have re-started the 30-day period from when it sent 
Mrs P the replacement card following her chaser call of mid-July. I felt that, had it done so, 
shed have been able to use her existing debit card on the day in question and wouldnt have 
suffered the loss and distress and inconvenience that she did. 
Mrs P agreed with my proposal.
HSBC didnt agree with my proposal. It felt Mrs P ought to have been aware when she called 
in July that her existing card was due to expire shortly due to the emails it had sent her. 
HSBC thought she could have made it aware she was going to be travelling abroad soon, in 
which case it could have looked at extending the expiry of her existing card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that HSBC chose to replace Mrs Ps existing debit card (it seems for 
commercial reasons) or that it had informed her of that in good time. From the emails Ive 
seen, I think its clear that HSBC told Mrs P on more than one occasion that her existing card 
would only continue to work for 30 days from the date of the letter sent with her new card.
HSBC says the first new card was sent to Mrs P on 19 June 2021. So, presumably, its 
system was set up to stop Mrs Ps existing card working 30 days after that date  on or 
around 19 July.  
By 13 July Mrs P told HSBC she hadnt received the new card. HSBC said it would put a 
stop on the card it had sent on 19 June and send her a new one. Mrs P was told her new 
card should be with her within three to four working days. So, presumably, the new card was 
sent on, or very shortly after, 13 July. 
The following day, on 14 July, HSBC emailed Mrs P to say, among other things, that: 
Your debit card will continue to work for 30 days from the date printed on the letter 
when your new card arrives, or until the first time you use your new [debit card].
On 21 July HSBC sent Mrs P a further email. It said she hadnt started using her new debit 
card yet and that, within the next seven days  which would be 30 days from the date of the 
letter sent with her new card  her existing card would stop working.
As we know, Mrs Ps existing card stopped working by the time she tried to use it abroad at 
the end of July. However, I dont think it was fair for HSBC to continue to use the date of the 
letter she was sent on 19 June as the date the 30 days should run from. I say that because 
HSBC was made aware Mrs P hadnt received that card or the accompanying letter. 
By not starting the 30 days from the date it had re-sent the card following Mrs Ps call of 
13 July, HSBC was effectively giving her less time in which to continue to use her existing 
card.I dont find it surprising that Mrs P apparently missed the information about the 30-day period 
contained in the emails HSBC had sent her, especially the ones sent on 14 and 21 July. I 
think it was fair for Mrs P to expect the 30-day period to start on the date the replacement 
card was reissued following her call, rather than on the date it was first sent, given shed 
already made HSBC aware she hadnt received the first card. I dont think Mrs Ps intention 
to travel abroad  or that she didnt mention her travel plans to HSBC  makes any material 
difference since the emails indicate the 30 days would start from the date of the letter sent 
with the replacement card. Namely, the letter sent in mid-July (and not the original letter).
I think that, had HSBC started the clock on the 30-day period from the date it re-sent the new 
card in July, Mrs P would have been able to use her existing card on the occasion in 
question. I also think that, had that happened, she wouldnt have had to undertake the 40-
minute drive home to speak to HSBC before driving back to the supermarket to re-do and 
complete her shop. 
In addition to the inconvenience and cost of making the extra journey, I recognise that Mrs P 
would have been embarrassed and upset in being told by the cashier  and in the presence 
of other shoppers  that her card had been declined. 
I see that HSBCs already paid Mrs P £30 for the distress and inconvenience its caused her. 
But, given what Ive said and that I think HSBC could have handled the complaint better by 
paying closer attention to what Mrs P was saying instead of simply referring her back to the 
emails it had sent to her, I require it to pay her an additional £70.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mrs P £70 as compensation for the costs shes incurred and the distress 
and inconvenience its caused her. Thats in addition to the £30 I gather its already paid her.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right for Mrs P as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman