DRN-1270755
The complaint
Ms A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited insisted she had to make a 
separate claim when her mobile phone was damaged.
What happened
Ms A had mobile phone insurance with Assurant, the policy providing cover for loss, theft, 
accidental damage and breakdown.
In March 2019 Ms A made a claim, stating that the phone had been accidentally dropped 
and the screen was damaged. She paid a £75 excess fee and was given a replacement 
phone.
She contacted Assurant again in July 2019 explaining the phone was overheating. Assurant 
agreed for it to be returned under the warranty, but when it received the phone, it was 
damaged. It contacted Ms A to tell her the fact the phone was damaged meant the warranty 
was void and she would need to make a new claim, or the phone would be returned 
unrepaired. Ms A agreed to make a new claim, paid a further £75 excess and was sent a 
replacement phone.
Ms A wasnt satisfied shed had to make a claim and pay another excess, so she complained 
to Assurant. She said she was unhappy the warranty was voided because, other than a 
cosmetic scratch, the phone was undamaged when she sent it. She said the phone wasnt 
damaged when she posted it and if there was any damage, it was Assurants responsibility. 
She also complained she hadnt received a call back from a team manager.
Assurant accepted Ms A had asked to speak to a manager and a call back was arranged but 
didnt take place. For this it issued an apology. But it maintained its position with respect to 
the claim, explaining the warranty was designed to cover any faults with the replacement 
phone, but if the phone became damaged, this would void the warranty as it wouldnt be able 
to confirm if the damage had caused the faults. In these circumstances, she would be 
required to make a further claim.
Ms A remained dissatisfied and so she complained to this service. She explained she 
wrapped the phone in bubble wrap and sent it to Assurant in the freepost envelope it had 
sent to her, but that Assurant said that, when it received the phone, it was damaged.
Assurant explained that when Ms A first contacted it in July, she stated there was damage to 
the back of the phone. But when she was told that would void the warranty, she said it was 
only a scratch and it had been there when she received the phone. It agreed for her to return 
the phone under warranty on that basis, explaining the phone would be repaired or replaced. 
However, when it received the phone, there were cracks to the back and front. Ms A told 
Assurant she hadnt damaged the phone, therefore it must have happened in transit.
Assurant argued it was Ms As responsibility to ensure the phone was received with no 
damage and it had been explained she needed to securely package the phone. 
Consequently, if the handset has been damaged in transit, it was reasonable to conclude it wasnt securely packaged. Further, it didnt accept the phone was damaged when it was 
replaced, arguing she would have reported it when she first received the replacement.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He noted Ms A had said there 
was no physical damage and that shed expected it to be covered under the warranty. But he 
explained it was the customers responsibility to ensure the phone arrived securely. He 
commented it was possible the phone was damaged during transit, but that wasnt 
Assurants fault and he wouldnt expect it to accept responsibility for the damage. He 
explained that because the phone was damaged before Assurant received it, the warranty 
became void therefore if Ms A wanted the phone to be replaced or repaired a new claim 
would be required. 
Ms A wasnt satisfied with the outcome of her complaint and has asked for it to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant has apologised for not having called Ms A back when it said it would and Im 
satisfied thats fair.
The warranty that came with the replacement phone provided cover for electrical and/or 
mechanical breakdown. It stated your replacement device comes with a 12 month warranty 
from the date it was dispatched. If any mechanical or electrical failures happen in this 
timewell look to take care of things for you but we wont be able to help if the defect is 
caused by damage or if any alterations or repair work have been carried out by someone 
else other than our approved repairers.
It is possible the phone sustained the damage after Assurant took possession of it. But 
based on Assurants description of the communications it said took place when it asked Miss 
A to send in the phone, I think its likely the phone was already damaged when she sent it. 
Its also possible the phone was damaged in transit, although Miss A has said she packaged 
it in bubble wrap. Either way, having found the phone was most likely already damaged by 
the time Assurant received it, I cant fairly hold it responsible for the condition of the phone.  
Because of this, Im satisfied it was fair for Assurant to have voided the warranty and 
required Ms A to make a separate claim for the damage. And, having found it was fair for 
Assurant to have insisted Ms A make a separate claim before agreeing to replace the phone, 
Im satisfied it was also fair for it to have charged her a separate excess. Consequently, I 
wont be asking Assurant to do anything else.
My final decision
I understand Ms A will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman