DRN-3183865
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way Assicurazioni Generali SpA (AGS) handled his claim. 
What happened
Mr G had a group income protection policy through his employer, underwritten by AGS. 
In September 2019, Mr G became absent from work due to mental health problems.  Mr Gs 
policy would pay a benefit after a deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks. 
In June 2020 Mr G made a claim on his income protection policy. AGS initially declined the 
claim on 2 September 2020 because they said there wasnt enough medical evidence to 
show he met the policy definition of incapacity. 
Mr G appealed their decision on 9 October 2020 and provided additional supporting medical 
evidence. AGS reviewed the claim again and decided to overturn their previous decision. 
They accepted the claim on 6 November 2020 and backdated it so the benefit was paid from 
the original date Mr Gs deferred period finished on 12 March 2020.  
AGS paid the claim on 27 November 2020 and a further payment was made on 16 
December 2020 following an error in the initial calculations.
Mr G was unhappy with the way his claim had been handled so he complained to AGS. He 
said the medical evidence hed provided the first time hed made the claim shouldve been 
enough to demonstrate he met the policy terms. So, he thought AGS had been unfair to 
initially decline cover. He was also unhappy there was errors in the calculation of his benefit.
AGS looked into his complaint but didnt think theyd acted unfairly. But they apologised for 
any stress caused to Mr G and paid him £200 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr G remained unhappy because he didnt receive an apology from AGS for not accepting 
the claim initially. He also wanted an explanation of what helped them change their decision 
and compensation for the consequential loss hed suffered.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He said there wasnt enough 
evidence to show Mr G was incapacitated due to an illness or injury when he first made his 
claim, so he thought it was fair for AGS to initially decline cover on that basis. 
Mr G disagreed with his findings. In summary he said: 
He didnt think our investigator had considered all the evidence that was available to 
AGS when he first made his claim 
His GP records and the Occupational Health (OC) reports both said he wasnt 
medically fit to work. So he thinks AGS had enough medical evidence when he first 
claimed. 
He was suffering when he first made the claim and the initial decision to decline 
impacted his health. He felt better following treatment, so he was able to provide a 
detailed timeline on his appeal  but Mr G shouldnt have needed to do this if AGS 
had done a better job to support him through his claim the first time. 
So the case has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To determine if AGS acted reasonably, Ive carefully considered all the evidence Mr G 
provided when the claim was first submitted. And then the further documentation provided to 
AGS at the point of his appeal. 
The relevant industry rules say AGS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and
fairly. And that they also shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr G feels strongly that AGS shouldve investigated his claim further instead of declining it 
based on the medical evidence they had. And he has raised concerns that AGS shouldve 
supported him better through the claims process due to his mental health. Whilst I 
understand Mr Gs point, its important to remember it is for the claimant to show  through 
medical evidence  that they have a valid claim. So when making his claim, the onus was on 
Mr G, not AGS to show he meets the policy definition of incapacity.
In Mr Gs initial claim, the medical evidence included GP records and Occupational Health 
(OH) reports. I agree that these records show Mr G was suffering from mental health 
symptoms and receiving treatment in the form of therapy and medication. However, there is 
a clear theme throughout all the notes that Mr Gs workplace issues were a trigger for his 
symptoms. The OH therapist said Mr Gs mental health symptoms were related to his 
feelings about the work situation and the result of outstanding issues he had with his role. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AGS to initially conclude the barrier for Mr G 
returning to work, was most likely issues in the workplace. 
Workplace stress wouldnt be considered an illness and isnt covered under the policy. So, 
despite there being evidence of Mr Gs menial health symptoms and the treatment he was 
receiving, I think it was fair for AGS to initially decline the claim on that basis
Mr Gs back and neck pain are also mentioned in the evidence provided in his first 
submissions. AGS acknowledged this at the time, but they said there wasnt any 
accompanying functional information to confirm whether or not Mr G would have still been 
able to perform the material duties of his insured role. They tried to clarify Mr G's functional 
ability further by obtaining a report from his Neurologist, however I can see this also failed to 
provide information on his level of function. So, I think AGS took reasonable steps to try and 
understand Mr Gs conditions, before making their decision to decline the claim based on the 
evidence available to them.  
In his appeal letter, Mr G said himself he appreciated that apart from the GP notes, he didnt 
think AGS had sufficient information about his musculoskeletal issues. He also told AGS
 I appreciate that as part of my claim you did not have the full picture of my musculoskeletal 
issues and its impact on my functional impairment. You are now able to visualise and see 
the multi symptoms in my well-being in attachments 1 & 2 and also be able to fully 
understand the severity of this, its impact on me and the treatment I was receiving. As Mr G agreed AGS didnt have sufficient information on his full medical state when he first 
made the claim, I cant say they were unfair to decline it on that basis.
AGS said they were persuaded to overturn their decision based on the additional evidence 
Mr G provided. This included a more detailed summary and timeline from Mr G to explain 
how his physical and mental illness had impacted his function. Having reviewed this 
document, I agree it provides new information in relation to how his mental health treatment 
and recovery was impacted by his back pain as he was unable to exercise and get outside 
as much.  It also included more detail about the reasons behind Mr Gs grievance and the 
impact of this on his health. 
In addition, the appeal submissions included a new piece of evidence from Mr Gs treating 
CBT therapist that specifically reported how Mr Gs difficulties were significantly impacting 
upon all important areas of his functional ability - including work, home and personal 
activities. And a new letter from Mr Gs treating physiotherapist that reported his reduced 
mobility and pain. 
Im persuaded this new evidence provided AGS with a clearer picture of how both Mr Gs 
physical and mental health problems impacted his functional capabilities. So, at this stage I 
think it was reasonable for AGS to overturn their previous decision. Its not unusual for 
insurers to decline a claim due to insufficient evidence and then overturn their decision. 
When this happens, I would normally expect the insurer to back-date the claim to when the 
benefit payment would have started if the claim had been accepted the first time. I can see 
AGS has done that here by backdating Mr Gs claim, so benefit was paid from the original 
date of his deferred period which ended on 12 March 2020.  So I think AGS have acted 
fairly. 
Mr G said he suffered consequential loss as a result of AGS not paying his claim sooner. Ive 
explained above why I think their initial decision to decline the claim was reasonable, so I 
dont agree there is any consequential loss from that decision. But I have considered if there 
were any delays in AGS handling of the original claim or the appeal.
AGS accepted this was a complex case and not just straight forward work-related stress 
claim, due to the additional musculoskeletal issues. They tried to obtain more information 
from the neurosurgeon to understand the impact of Mr Gs back pain and then gave their 
decision to decline within a reasonable timeframe. And Im satisfied AGS then went on to 
respond to Mr Gs appeal promptly. I think the initial claims reversal letter from AGS could 
have provided more information about the reason behind their change in decision. However, 
I can see this was followed by a more thorough response where they maintained that their 
initial decision to decline the claim was fair, based on the medical evidence at the time. 
AGS confirmed theyd dealt with the claim and appeal within a reasonable timescale, but 
they offered a gesture of goodwill of £200 for any additional stress caused to Mr G and to 
cover the costs of the medical evidence he had obtained. I can see AGS has already paid 
this and I wont be asking them to pay any further compensation. 
Mr G has raised concerns about his benefit payment being incorrect and delayed. So Ive 
considered if there were delays from when the claim was accepted on 6 November 2020 to 
when Mr G received payment.  Under the terms of the policy, AGS agree a settlement figure 
with the policy holder  which is Mr Gs employer. I can see AGS first contacted Mr Gs 
employer on 6 November 2020 to discuss the settlement figure. This was agreed on 26 
November 2020 and paid the next day. In the records Ive seen I cant say AGS caused any 
unreasonable delay to this process. On 11 December 2020, AGS was notified by Mr Gs employer that their initial calculations 
around payment for Mr G had been incorrect, so an additional payment to him was required. 
AGS made this payment on 16 December 2020 which I think is within a reasonable 
timeframe and I cant hold them responsible for Mr Gs employer providing incorrect 
information to them. 
Finally, Mr G has referred to a call between AGS and his employer where they discussed his 
workplace issues. AGS were told his employer didnt feel his claim was supported. Mr G 
strongly believes this comment had a major influence on AGS original decision to decline 
his claim. But I disagree. On that call AGS confirmed that although they dont usually count 
workplace stress as an illness, there may be a potential claim because Mr G had also 
reported physical pain. So Im satisfied AGS were still fairly investigating the claim at this 
point.  
In summary, I think it was reasonable for AGS to initially decline the claim because, on 
balance, the evidence suggested it was mostly Mr Gs difficulties at work that prevented him 
from carrying out his occupation. And there wasnt enough information available about Mr 
Gs functional impairments. After Mr G provided additional evidence, I think this was fairly 
considered by AGS and they accepted the claim. As I would expect, they backdated Mr Gs 
claim, so he received benefit from the end of his original deferred period. So, Im satisfied 
AGS considered Mr Gs appeal and processed the final settlement as quickly as they could.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr G, but I dont think there are reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask AGS to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman