DRN-2228711
The complaint
Mr W complains that Motability Operations Limited failed to make the reasonable
adjustments he'd requested in two letters they sent him on 2 December 2019.
What happened
Mr W made Motability aware that, because of his autism and a visual impairment, he
requires reasonable adjustments to be made to all correspondence sent to him. He requires
correspondence to be in large print, Arial size 16 font, including the address and full contact
details. He says that the effect of having fonts of differing sizes can be disturbing visually
and cause him distress.
On 2 December 2019 Motability sent Mr W two letters in which the logo, address details and
the footer weren't in size 16 font as he'd requested, and he was unable to read this
information. He says this caused him significant distress.
Mr W complained to Motability who didn't uphold his complaint. They apologised for any
inconvenience caused by the address and company registration details not being in the
requested font. And they said they'd taken steps to accommodate his request for reasonable
adjustments, including stopping any system generated letters from automatically being sent
to him, to enable them to adjust the body of letters to size 16 font before being sent to him.
Motability said their letters were adjusted to Mr W's requirements manually, and they didn't
anticipate there would be an issue in relation to the information contained on the company's
letterhead. They also said it wasn't their intention to cause any distress, and they would
always do their best to accommodate the individual needs of customers. But although they'd
put system modifications in place after Mr W's request, they've said that there might still be
occasions when he receives correspondence in smaller font. Theyve said that when this
happens, Mr W should flag it to them and theyll ensure the same information is re-sent to
him in larger font.
Mr W also complained that the Financial Ombudsman Service leaflet Motability had sent to
him, with their response to his complaint, wasn't in the font he'd requested. Motability said
they didn't have any leaflets in the font he required but had requested these. In the
meantime, Motability had sent Mr W an enlarged photocopy of the Financial Ombudsman
Services leaflet.
Mr W wasn't happy with this response and complained to our service. Our investigator
assessed the case and said considerations under the Equality Act 2010 require businesses
to make reasonable adjustments, so that a disabled person is not significantly
disadvantaged in comparison to a non-disabled person. He said that the business should
ensure it takes reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that their service is accessible
to its customers.
Our investigator felt that Mr W hadn't been disadvantaged by the logo, business address and
contact number, and business details in the footer not being the same size as the body of
the letter. He said Mr W knew who the letter was from, he'd been able to contact Motability,
despite the contact details not being enlarged, and there wasn't any information in the footer
that he'd needed to use. And he felt the steps Motability had taken to ensure they complied
to the best of their ability with Mr W's required adjustment were reasonable. So he didn't
think they'd done anything wrong.
Mr W didn't accept our investigator's opinion. He said our investigator had made
assumptions about the impact Motability's failure to comply with his request for reasonable 
adjustments, had on him. He'd told Motability what reasonable adjustments he required, and 
under the Equality Act they were required to make these adjustments. And he said it wasn't 
for our investigator to decide what impact the failure to make reasonable adjustments had on 
him.
Mr W shared with us that he lives with Charles Bonnet syndrome, Metamorphopsia and
Autism. Because of this, Mr W says that if he's unable to read the whole of a letter he
experiences visual disturbance and hallucinations, which can trigger him because of his
autism and cause a meltdown. He says that our investigator hadn't appreciated the
significant impact the businesses actions had on him, given the conditions he has.
The case came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 24 August 2020. 
And in it I said:
It's not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not - that's a matter for the
Courts. Our role is to decide what's fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to
decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account, including relevant
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So, although it's
for the Courts to say whether, or not, Motability has breached the Equality Act 2010, we're
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if it's relevant, amongst other things
when deciding what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr W had made Motability aware of his visual impairment and requested an adjustment to
the correspondence they sent to him. He asked for all correspondence, including the
address contact details, and footers be sent in Arial size 16 font. It's not in dispute that in the
letters Motability sent Mr W, on 2 December 2019, the logo, address and contact details and
the footer weren't in the font or size he'd requested.
Motability have told us that Mr W first notified them of his requirement in December 2017,
and they've made every effort to accommodate this adjustment and provided all necessary
documentation in an accessible format to him. This has included placing a warning note on
their system that written communication should be produced in size 16 font. And theyve said
that any system generated documentation is blocked from being produced and sent to Mr W
automatically. So they're able to use a manual process to produce the relevant
documentation in the required format.
Motability don't believe Mr W was put at any disadvantage as the detail within their letters
was in size 16 font as he'd requested, he knew who the letters were from and was able to
communicate with them without the contact details being enlarged. Based on what they've
told us, it seems they never reformatted the header and footer of their letters to Mr W to size
16 Ariel font as he requested  only the main body of the letters.
Mr W told us that he'd provided details of his visual impairment to Motability, and from what
he's told us about his condition, the adjustment he'd requested was to prevent him
experiencing visual disturbances, which would trigger a meltdown because of his autism.
Motability don't seem to have grasped that Mr W's complaint isn't about whether he could
contact them or not, it's about the triggering effect of having different sized text on the samepage, and the impact this would have on him because of the conditions he lives with.
If they didn't understand the reason Mr W had asked for this information to be included as
part of the adjustment he'd requested, I think they should have contacted him about this.
They were manually adjusting the letters they sent to him, so I don't consider it beyond
Motability's capabilities to have its header and footer enlarged to size 16 font or to discuss
suitable alternatives with Mr W if this wasnt possible. And I don't consider Mr W's request to
be an unreasonable one.
Motability have told Mr W, that even though they've put modifications in place, he
may sometimes receive letters which aren't in the requested size or font. They seem to be
saying that when this happens Mr W should flag it with them. This potentially means that Mr 
W may experience further distress caused by the conflicting sized lettering. And has to keep
reminding Motability of his conditions and why he requires an adjustment to be made 
which doesnt seem fair to Mr W. Instead I'd expect Motability to say that they'd noted his
adjustment on their systems, and this should ensure that it's applied to all correspondence,
but in the rare event it isn't, Mr W should alert them. This would perhaps reassure Mr W that
they've understood and actioned his required adjustment. So Id encourage Motability to
consider what further steps it could take to try and mitigate any correspondence going to Mr
W which isnt in size 16 Ariel font.
Further, I would've expected Motability to know that if they're sending out a letter in size 16
font, then any accompanying information, including the Financial Ombudsman Information
leaflet, should also be in large font. I note that they've said they enlarged the regular font
sized leaflet and sent this to Mr W as an interim measure and in the absence of any leaflets
in larger print, I can see why they took these steps.
In summary, I don't think that Motability took all the steps they should have done to ensure
they complied with Mr W's request to adjust the correspondence they sent to him, so that it
was accessible to him. And I accept what he's told us about the impact this had on him
because of the conditions that he has. So I'm persuaded that Motability caused Mr W to
suffer trouble and upset which could have been avoided and for which he should be
compensated.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Ws complaint and I said that Motability 
should pay him £350 compensation for the trouble and upset hed experienced.
In response to my provisional decision Mr W has said that he doesnt think the compensation 
Ive awarded is enough. He says that Motabilitys failures and intransigence over some time 
have caused him considerable emotional anxiety and harm, and have placed him at a 
considerable disadvantage. He thinks that the compensation he receives should be three 
times what Ive suggested.
Motability have said that looking at their notes the only information Mr W provided to them 
was that, he has a visual impairment which makes reading small text difficult, if not 
impossible, if he received information in any other format than size 16 font. They say that it 
would have been fairly simple for Mr W to share with them the impact that this had on his 
wellbeing. And they say Mr W has raised other complaints and these issues havent been 
mentioned before.
Motability have also said that they dont accept that re-sizing of pre-printed letter headed 
paper is a fair, reasonable or feasible and remain of the view that the reasonable adjustment 
theyve put in place, based on the information Mr W had provided to them, has not impacted 
on his ability on avail himself of the services they provide, and were fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. But with the benefit of the additional information provided, theyll consider as a business whether the current and/or system generated processes theyve sought to put 
in place can be enhanced to accommodate the alleged impact of the provision of information 
on Mr Ws wellbeing, should he look to re-join the scheme following the expiry of his current 
period of exclusion, in view of multiple early terminations.
They also ask whether we have any concerns about Mr Ws ability to be in control of a motor 
vehicle, given the information hes provided about experiencing visual disturbances and 
hallucinations. As they say if these occur when hes driving it could endanger his life, and the 
lives of others.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with the points raised by Motability, before considering what Mr W has said about the 
level of compensation.
Once Mr W notified Motability he required reasonable adjustments, they had a duty to take 
steps to put the modifications hed notified them he required in place. Mr W had told them 
that he required all correspondence, including the headers and footers, to be in size 16 font. 
Motability have said Mr W was still able to communicate and contact them, when only the 
main body of their correspondence was in size 16 font. And I accept that Mr W was still able 
to contact them, he hasnt told us that he wasnt.
But I think what Mr W told Motability about the adjustment he required should have alerted 
them to there being more behind Mr Ws request, than simply wanting to be able to read 
their contact information. As I said in my provisional decision, if Motability didnt understand 
Mr Ws request, they should have contacted him about this.
And in dealing with this complaint, I cant comment on the information that may have been 
available to Motability, in relation to any other complaint Mr W may have brought to our 
service.
Im not persuaded by what Motability have said, that it was beyond their capabilities 
to have its header and footer enlarged to size 16 font, or to discuss suitable alternatives with 
Mr W if this wasnt possible. And I dont accept that Mr Ws request was an unreasonable 
one. In their future dealings with Mr W, as Ive said in my provisional decision, Id encourage 
Motability to consider what further steps it could take to try and mitigate any correspondence 
going to him which isnt in size 16 font.
Its isnt my role to comment on whether the conditions Mr W has told us he lives with impact 
on his ability to drive. And Im sure Motability know this. If they have any concerns about this, 
they should discuss these with Mr W. 
So I havent changed my opinion that Motability caused Mr W to suffer trouble and upset 
which could have been avoided and for which he should be compensated.
Mr W believes the compensation Ive said Motability should pay him isnt enough, as their 
failures and intransigence over some time, have caused him considerable emotional anxiety 
and harm, and have placed him at a considerable disadvantage.  But this complaint relates 
to two letters Motability sent him on 2 December 2019. And I remain of the opinion that 
Motability should pay Mr W £350 compensation for the trouble and upset these caused.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ws complaint against Motability Operations Limited. And to put things right I 
require them to pay him £350 compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman