DRN-1838381
The complaint
Mr B complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) hasnt treated him fairly 
when settling a claim he made under his home insurance for damage caused by a water 
leak.
What happened
Mr B suffered a burst pipe in his home, and it caused extensive damage. That was in May 
2019. He contacted RSA which agreed to meet his claim.
Mr B was given the option of having RSA carry out the repairs or accept a cash settlement if 
he wanted to do the work himself. RSA also said Mr B could get a quote from a contractor of 
his choice and it would consider this. The quote Mr B obtained was about four times as 
much as RSA initially thought the work would cost. It sent a second assessor out to scope 
the work and increased its offer  although its still for much less than the quote Mr B 
obtained.  
Mr B said he received very poor service from the claims handler at RSA  and eventually a 
new handler took over his claim. He says hes lost faith in RSA and its contractors and wants 
to use his own. RSA has increased the offer it made for a cash settlement and paid that to 
Mr B in December 2019. Its said it will refund any VAT Mr B pays over and above this 
amount if receipts are provided.
RSA acknowledged it hadnt dealt with this claim very well, and sent Mr B £500 to make up 
for this. It also said it would provide feedback to the relevant staff and their managers about 
the way theyd dealt with the claim and Mr Bs request to make a complaint.
Mr B didnt think was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said she thought 
RSA had dealt with settling the claim in line with the policy Mr B had, and that the 
compensation offered was appropriate.
Mr B disagrees, and wants RSA to pay him what hell have to pay his own contractor. And 
he doesnt think the £500 is enough to compensate him for the time hes spent on the claim 
and the inconvenience.
Ive been asked to decide this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to ask RSA to do more than it already has. I realise this isnt what Mr B wants 
to hear, but Ill explain why Ive reached that decision. As there are several points to Mr Bs 
complaint Ill deal with each separately.
Settlement
Mr Bs home insurance is meant to return his home to the state it was in before the water 
leak  no better and no worse. The terms and conditions contained within the policy say that 
RSA can choose how to settle a claim  and thats usually by either carrying out repairs itself 
or giving Mr B a cash settlement for no more than it would pay to have the repairs 
completed.
I can see RSA gave Mr B these options  and it also said if he wanted to provide a quote 
from his own contractor then it would take that into account. Mr B did that  and his quote 
was about three times the amount RSA had initially offered. RSA said it would send another 
surveyor out to re-assess the work. That happened, and the cash settlement offer increased, 
it seems mainly because the cost of flooring etc increased rather than the actual scope of 
work.
RSA also sent us some of its internal notes which highlight that Mr Bs initial quote covered 
things that RSA didnt believe needed doing  it included, for example, a full kitchen 
replacement when RSA thought only repairs were needed.
As I said above, RSA only has to return Mr Bs home to the condition it was in before the 
water damage occurred  so I dont think it appropriate for it to pay for a new kitchen unless 
one is needed, or to replace woodwork that has dried out and can simply be re-decorated. I 
think the scope of work RSA offered to do was acceptable.
Mr Bs loss of faith in RSAs contractors doesnt appear to be with any business actually 
carrying out work  hes said hes happy with the work the specialist drying company did. Its 
not as though a builder appointed by RSA has started work and isnt doing it well. So I dont 
think Mr B can ask RSA to pay the costs he might incur if he chooses to use his own 
contractor. I understand Mr B thinks more problems might be discovered when the work is 
done  but I dont expect RSA to anticipate that and increase the payment. I would expect it 
to consider paying for unforeseen repairs if they arise during the work and can be linked to 
the original damage. 
Claims handling and compensation
Dealing with an insurance claim is likely to be stressful and time consuming  and thats 
because its an upsetting situation to be in. That in itself isnt RSAs responsibility. It is 
however responsible for any unnecessary stress and inconvenience it causes. 
Its clear Mr B had some trouble with the first claims handler he dealt with, and staff made it 
difficult for him to complain. I do sympathise with him on these points. But having looked 
through what he and RSA both say, I think RSAs response - £500 compensation and some 
in-house actions with regard to the claims handler  are reasonable.
Other points
Mr B said he was concerned that his home was left in a dangerous state and that his 
daughter tripped on an uneven floor. I can see he contacted RSA about this at the time, but 
from the tone of the emails it appears to have been resolved amicably. Mr B also mentioned 
that his mother died during the claim period and the state of his home might have 
contributed to this, as there might have been mould under the kitchen floor, although I cant 
see that this was ever established. Im very sorry to hear about Mr Bs loss at such a difficult 
time. He hasnt said anything more about this, so I trust that his mind was put at rest on this 
point by the doctors concerned.
Mr B also told us about a problem he had renewing his home insurance. Our investigator 
thought this was something Mr B should take up with the broker dealing with his policy, and were helping him to do that. But it doesnt seem to be anything RSA did, so Im not going to 
say anything more about that here.
Taking everything into account I think RSA has acted reasonably
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman