DRN-1429228
 
The complaint
Ms B complains on behalf of her business, I, that Irwell Insurance Company Limited has 
unfairly declined a claim made under its Premier Professional insurance policy. 
Croner Taxwise administer the policy for Irwell, but for ease Ill refer to Irwell throughout. 
What happened
I has a Premier Professional insurance policy. The policy covers I for professional fees it 
incurs resulting from investigations by HMRC into its clients. 
In April 2019, following a request for a VAT refund, HMRC started investigations into a client 
of I's . I submitted a claim to Irwell for £900 for the hours it would need to work, to respond to 
the investigation. This claim was approved and Irwell asked for a copy of the closure 
certificate once the investigation had been closed. 
But HMRC had further queries. And in May 2019 I submitted a claim for 5.5 hours work, for 
work it had already completed prior to it getting authorisation. Irwell agreed to retrospectively 
reimburse I for this work. In June 2019, I made a further claim for another nine hours work. 
Again the work had already been completed and fees incurred. This time Irwell declined the 
claim, as I hadnt sought prior authorisation before carrying out the work. 
I made a complaint. Irwell didnt uphold the complaint as I hadnt sought prior authorisation 
for the work as required by the policy. It also said that the part of the policy referred to by 
I had a wider context to it and is in relation to where a client might need to proceed to 
Tribunal or ADP. The part of the policy is:
 If the client proceeds without consent and succeeds, the insurer will cover all reasonable 
fees and disbursements as if consent had been given, subject to the terms and conditions of 
this Policy. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that Irwell didnt remind I of the 
need to get prior consent or tell it that further retrospective claims would be declined, so she 
didnt think it was fair for Irwell to rely on the term requiring this. She also found that Irwell 
hadnt been prejudiced or that it wouldnt have agreed to the fees had it been contacted for 
authorisation. She therefore found it should cover the fees. 
Irwell disagreed. It was satisfied I was aware of the need to get prior authorisation and it 
doesnt believe a policy holder should be able to ignore policy terms and conditions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Irwell is correct that when making a claim, the policy holder should notify it of the claim 
before incurring any fees and disbursements. This is set out in the Making a claim part of 
the policy. And although I has argued it wasnt made clear that unauthorised claims could be 
declined, I cant ignore the first claim it put through for this investigation was for prior 
authorisation. So Im satisfied it was aware of the correct process to follow. 
However, I have also taken into that Irwell agreed to pay Is fees incurred in May 2019, 
despite there being no prior authorisation. And it hasnt shown that it has been prejudiced in 
any way as a result of I not obtaining prior authorisation for the fees incurred in June 2019; it 
hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that it wouldnt have agreed to cover them. 
In reaching my decision, I have taken account of the Insurance Act 2015, specifically section 
11, which restricts an insurers ability to reject a claim for a breach of a term which is aimed 
at reducing loss. I think that applies here  the requirement to get pre-authorisation is so that 
the policy holder doesnt incur fees and disbursements that wont be reimbursed. Subsection 
(2) and (3) sets out that an insurer may not rely on non-compliance with a term if it hasnt 
increased the risk of the loss incurred. As mentioned above, Irwell hasnt shown that it has 
been prejudiced as a result of I not gaining authorisation before incurring additional fees in 
June 2019. And it hasnt provided any evidence that it wouldnt have given pre-authorisation. 
 Im therefore not persuaded the claim for these fees has been declined fairly. 
I also cant ignore the part of the policy quoted above. Although Irwell has said this is 
supposed to cover wider situations such as clients proceeding to Tribunal, this isnt what the 
policy says. I understand the client was successful in their request for a VAT refund and so 
Im satisfied the fees should be reimbursed.  
Putting things right
I have found that Irwell has unfairly declined the claim for the latest fees.  I therefore require 
it to reimburse Is fees (for June 2019) and add 8% simple interest to that sum from the date 
the claim was made to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Irwell 
Insurance Company Limited to settle this complaint as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman