DRN-3262323
The complaint
Mr J complains Morses Club PLC (Morses) provided him with loans that he couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
Mr J took four loans between June 2017 and November 2019 Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 29/06/2017 06/03/2018 33 £20.00
2 £500.00 26/04/2018 11/12/2018 33 £25.00
3 £500.00 11/12/2018 17/09/2019 33 £25.00
4 £500.00 26/11/2019 23/10/2020 34 £25.00
Morses considered Mr Js complaint and issued its final response letter on this matter and 
concluded it hadnt made an error when it approved these loans for him. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr J referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt think it was wrong for Morses to 
have granted loans 1 and 2. But the adjudicator thought that loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have 
been lent. 
He said when loan 3 was lent, Mr Js income had reduced by around 50% and was now 
around a third less than loan 1 even though the weekly repayments Mr J was committed to 
making had increased. In addition, the adjudicator could see loan 3 was taken the same day 
as loan 2 had been repaid. Overall, he concluded Mr Js repayment represented a significant 
portion of his income for his final two loans. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary it said.
The expenditure figure Morses arrives at includes living costs and credit 
commitments and Mr J signed to confirm the information recorded was an accurate 
reflection of his circumstances. 
While Mr Js income had reduced, the figure was checked with the credit reference 
agencies and Morses says it knows these figures to be accurate. 
For loan 3, Mr J said he could afford repayments of £40 per week and the 
repayments he was due to make were only £25 so the loan was affordable. 
For loan 4, Mr J said he could afford a loan repayment of £50 per week. 
Morses also provided a breakdown of expenditure for loan 4, which included notes 
about Mr Js living costs including Mortgage comes out of wifes (sic) wages and 
benefits.
There was also a break in lending between loans 3 and 4. 
Mr J didnt inform Morses that he was having difficulties. 
Mr J also disagreed, with the findings the adjudicator reached  a number of emails have 
been sent to the Financial Ombudsman Service and Ive summarised the responses below.
Mr J was happy with the outcome for loans 3 and 4. 
But Mr J also wants loans 1 and 2 upheld because he said his financial situation was 
no different at loan 1 as it was at loan 4. 
Mr J also says he had mortgage arrears at the time. 
Mr Js partner appealed a decision and an ombudsman, on another case, upheld all 
her loans and so all of his loans should be upheld as well.
The adjudicator explained that he was satisfied for loans 1 and 2 that in the early part of the 
relationship the checks Morses carried out were proportionate.  He also explained each case 
is considered on the individual merits. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr J could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Js income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr J. These factors include:
Mr J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr J.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr J was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Js complaint.
Loan 1
This was Mr Js first loan with Morses. Before the loan was approved, Mr J told Morses he 
earned around £760 per week and Morses says it used his credit report in order to verify this 
amount. 
Mr J also declared that he had weekly expenditure of £522, leaving him with around £237 
per week to meet his contractual loan repayments of £20. 
Morses also carried out a credit search before this loan was approved, and it has provided 
the results of this check. 
Mr J has also provided a copy of his actual credit report that was generated in 
November 2021 and provides details of his repayment history for the previous six years  
which covers the period of time when this loan was approved. 
Ive thoroughly reviewed the credit file information and overall, while there is some adverse 
information visible. I dont think the results Morses received ought to have led it to either 
decline Mr Js application for credit or to have prompted it to carry out further checks.  
It is also worth saying here that Morses, wasnt required to carry out a credit search before 
this loan (or any other loan) was approved. Neither was there a standard that the credit 
check had to adhere too. What I mean, is that the information Morses receive may not fully 
reflect the information contained within Mr Js full credit report. 
The fact that Morses report may not have been shown all of the same information, isnt an 
error on its part. But what Morses cant and shouldnt do, is gather information that indicates 
difficulties or financial problems and then ignore it and not react to it. 
Morses was aware that Mr J wasnt insolvent in any way through say a County Court 
Judgement or any other type. He had 10 active credit accounts of which one had a zero 
balance. 
Morses was also aware, based on the information that he wasnt a regular user of high cost 
or home credit. There also wasnt any indication from the credit report that Mr J may have 
been reliant on such credit or credit in general. I say this because Morses was aware that 
the newest credit account had been open for around seven months. 
However, Morses was aware that there were four defaults reported on Mr Js credit file but it 
was equally told that the most recent of these defaults was recorded 21 months before its 
check was carried out. 
In my view, this is to long ago, to have made Morses think that Mr J was likely having or was 
having financial difficulties. After all, a default from nearly two years ago isnt in my view a 
sign that someone may have been having current or immediate financial difficulties.  Mr Js main concern is that at the time of the loan application he was in significant mortgage 
arrears  and this is reflected in the credit report he has provided the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. It shows that a payment record of 6 for at least the last six years (back to 
November 2015). A typically a payment record of 6 would indicate the account had been 
defaulted. 
The credit report provided by Morses shows that it was aware that Mr J was connected to 
two mortgage accounts.
Morses was also aware that one of these mortgage accounts had been defaulted. However, 
given it had been at least two years since the most recent default, its reasonable to 
conclude that the mortgage default hadnt been applied recently and was likely to be historic. 
Therefore, I dont think Morses knowing that there was a historic default on the credit file 
connected to a mortgage account, is enough, in this case to warrant further checks by 
Morses or to have declined the loan.
There is a possible indication within the credit check results that Mr J may have been having 
problems with the other mortgage account. I say this because the balance of delinquent 
accounts seems to be large enough, possibly as mortgage areas were being included with 
the figure. 
However, under the relevant sections of the credit check results that are connected with 
mortgage accounts there isnt, as far as I can see, anything specific about this or anything to 
indicate that apart from the one defaulted mortgage account that there were other issues. 
So, given the credit check results, and what Morses knew about Mr Js wider financial 
situation, I think it was just about reasonable for this loan to have been granted. 
I also, more generally, dont yet think it had reached the stage where Morses needed to 
more before it lent. For example I dont yet think it wouldve been proportionate of it to have 
checked Mr Js bank statements to have verified the information he provided given it was the 
first loan in the chain. 
Based on the information Mr J declared to Morses as well as the information it discovered 
from his credit report. Morses couldve been confident he was in a position to afford the 
contractual repayment. Given this was the first loan, I think the checks that Morses did were 
proportionate and it didnt need to do any further checks before agreeing to the loan. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr J repaid loan 1 without any obvious repayment problems. Mr J then didnt return for 
further borrowing for around six weeks before returning for loan 2, which was slightly larger 
at £500.  
Similar sorts of checks were carried out before loan 2. Morses again asked Mr J about his 
income (which Mr J had declared to be around £507 per week) and outgoings of around 
£395. 
This left Mr J with around £112 of disposable income. This was sufficient to be able to afford 
the repayment of £25 per week. Morses, wouldve reasonably believed that Mr J had 
sufficient funds in which to afford the contractual repayments that he had to make. It seems, from what Morses has provided that a credit search wasnt carried out for this loan 
because no further credit reports or checks have been provided by it. I appreciate this may 
be frustration for Mr J but as there was no requirement to carry out a credit search, I cant 
conclude Morses made an error here solely because a credit search wasnt carried out. 
Overall, Im reaching the same outcome for this loan as Ive reached for loan 1. In my view, 
Morses carried out proportionate checks which showed Mr J would likely be able to afford 
the repayments he was committed to making. 
I appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by the outcome Ive reached for loans 1 and 2. But I do 
hope my explanation has been helpful especially as he says his partners complaint was 
upheld as a result of adverse information being reported about the mortgage. 
However, as the adjudicator has explained, each complaint is considered on its own 
individual merits and based on the information provided by both parties to the complaint. In 
this case, the outcome Im reaching for loans 1 and 2 is in my view fair.  
Loans 3 and 4
The adjudicator upheld both of these loans, because in his view there was now a pattern 
whereby Mr Js declared income was decreasing with each loan application and by the point 
loan 3 was approved this loan and all further loans shouldnt have been given. 
Mr J agreed with the outcome that the adjudicator had reached for these loans, whereas 
Morses disagreed and provided the comments I outlined earlier on in this decision. 
Having looked at everything together  including Morses comments, I think it would be fair 
and reasonable to uphold Mr Js complaint about these loans and Ive explained why below. 
For loan 3, Mr J declared his income was now only around £227 per week. This is a 
significant reduction of more than 50% compared to what he declared for loan 2, around six 
months before. It was also the case, that for each loan approved by Morses Mr J had 
declared a decrease in his income. 
Its also worth noting a similar pattern for expenditure was also apparent. Mr Js weekly 
expenditure had decreased, from £394 at loan 2 to £138 for loan 3. This coupled with the 
decrease in declared income  (which Morses says was checked with the credit reference 
agency) is in my view concerning. 
Although, Morses didnt need to, Ive checked the bank statements supplied by Mr J and it 
does seem that around this time Mr Js income was around £200 per week, so what he 
declared to Morses was an accurate reflection of his circumstances. 
So, Morses was on notice that Mr Js income and expenditure was decreasing with each 
loan, yet his weekly commitment was remaining broadly similar. In my view, given that
Mr J had now returned for another loan as well as taking loan 3 on the same day loan 2 was 
repaid ought to have led Morses to realise that the loan (and future loans) were no longer 
sustainable for Mr J. 
In my view, given the factors in the above paragraph, I think the weekly repayment for this 
loan now represented a significant portion of an income Morses had checked and which had 
decreased compared to the two previous loans. In these circumstances, there was, in my view a significant risk that Mr J wouldnt have been 
able to meet his existing credit commitment without having to borrow again. So, I think it was 
unlikely Mr J wouldve been able to sustainably meet his weekly repayments for this loan. 
My view is further reinforced, by the payments problems Mr J went on to have for both loans 
3 and 4. 
Ive thought about the gap in lending between loans 3 and 4 which Morses highlighted of 
around two months. But in this case, I dont think it changes the outcome that Im reaching. 
Firstly, Ive not upheld loan 4 due to the pattern of lending that had developed. Ive upheld 
loan 4 for similar reasons to loan 3. In addition, Morses was aware that it had taken Mr J 
seven weeks longer to repay loan 3 than Morses had anticipated.
In addition, Mr J had borrowed the same sum for his loan as he had for the previous two 
loans and once again, Mr Js declared his income had decreased. All of these factors have 
led me to conclude that loan 4 should be upheld for the same reason as loan 3. 
Indeed, the repayment history for loan 4 further, in my view shows this loan ought to not 
have been provided, given it took Mr J 13 weeks longer to repay this loan than Morses had 
expected given the contracted term.
Im therefore upholding Mr Js complaint about loans 3 and 4.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr J from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr J loans 3 and 4.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans. B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
J which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr J originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. Morses should pay Mr J the total of A plus B. 
D. Morses should also remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Js credit 
file in relation to loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Js complaint in part. I am not 
upholding Mr Js complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
But, Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr J as directed above in relation to loans 3 
and 4. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman