DRN-3777282
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) wont refund her money she lost as part 
of a third-party scam.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In July 2020, Mrs L was researching bonds online and reached out regarding the information 
on the website she found. As a result of conversations with the initial organisation, she was 
referred to an FCA regulated business - I will refer to as N - who recommended an 
investment bond with a UK registered company - I refer to as Q.
Sometime later, Mrs L was contacted by police advising they had frozen Qs assets because 
it was under investigation. It appears that, although she was told her funds would be 
invested in property, funds actually went to the individuals within Q. Mrs L complained to 
BOI, but it said she was liable as she authorised the transaction. BOI upheld Mrs Ls 
complaint for the service provided to her when she contacted the Bank regarding the 
disputed payment, and she was paid £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. Although she felt BOI ought to have 
intervened when Mrs L made the payment, she didnt think any intervention would have 
made a difference.
Mrs L did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted the representations made by all the parties, but I wont be addressing 
every single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the 
points havent been considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in 
reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive 
instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
I should start by saying that each case is judged on its own merits and what may appear (on 
the face of it) to be a similar set of circumstances, may often transpire not to be the case. As 
already explained by the investigator, BOI is not a signatory to the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) which is a voluntary code. The fact 
that this is voluntary is not something this service can review  we are set up to deal with 
individual consumer complaints and do not make the rules and regulations. Its also worth 
noting that Mrs L was making a payment to a legitimate organisation (N) and such payments 
are not covered by the CRM Code. And this is potentially another nuance in Mrs Ls case 
compared to other scam cases - where funds may have been directly transferred to Q.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. So, although it wasnt her intention to pay money to 
the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her 
account, Mrs L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for BOI to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
BOI hasnt disputed the investigators view that it ought to have questioned whether Mrs L 
was at risk of financial harm and intervened before allowing the £20,000 payment to go 
through. Having looked at how Mrs L used the account, I agree the £20,000 transfer was 
unusual for Mrs L and that BOI should have contacted Mrs L before processing the payment. 
But that is not enough on its own to uphold the complaint. I appreciate Mrs L doesnt think 
we can say something wouldnt have happened, but causation is a critical determination 
factor in every fraud case. I need to be satisfied that suitable intervention would have made 
a difference to Mrs Ls decision making or that BOI could have prevented the loss. In doing 
so I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities (rather than giving Mrs L the benefit of 
doubt)  so what I consider more likely than not based on the evidence and wider 
circumstances of the case.
If questions had been asked about the nature and purpose of the payment Mrs L was 
proposing to make, I think its more likely than not that Mrs L would have explained she was 
transferring the money to an FCA regulated organisation called N who were then investing in 
a bond for her with Q  itself a UK registered company. Whilst I appreciate Mrs L says she 
would have researched things more  I dont think the investment would have been cause 
for concern at the point of transfer or the events that have now transpired with Q 
foreseeable. Mrs L was paying a legitimate regulated entity for an investment with an 
organisation which appeared  through its registration with Companies House - to be 
legitimate. So, the payment didnt look like fraud or a scam and it would have needed a 
considerable amount of investigation to unearth the facts about Q that have now come to 
light  quite some time after the investment was made.
I appreciate Mrs L has also asked for evidence that BOI tried to recover her funds but the 
beneficiary bank here was N - not the scammer - so I wouldnt expect BOI to have reached 
out to try and recover funds from a legitimate organisation. In any event, its unlikely any 
attempts at recovery would have been successful given the time that had elapsed since the 
transfer and when Mrs L discovered the scam.
I understand Mrs L had to make a number of calls to BOI and her calls were not returned, 
and she was dissatisfied with the service she received. BOI acknowledged it could have 
provided a better level of service and made an offer of £250 compensation. Ive noted Mrs 
Ls comments in relation to the £250 BOI has paid. The core of which she confirms relates to 
it not being signed up to the CRM Code. I have already explained this is a voluntary Code 
and BOI not being signed up to it is not something for which I would make an award. Awards 
of this nature are not intended to punish or fine a business (nor is it my role to make punitive 
awards). Sometimes mistakes by a business have a practical or emotional impact and such 
awards reflect the distress and inconvenience a consumer might experience. Having 
considered what happened here I think the offer of £250 is fair and reasonable so I wont be 
recommending any further award.Im sorry Mrs L has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why she 
would like to be compensated for her losses. I do accept she has fallen victim to what can 
only be described as a cruel and callous scam. But Im only considering whether the bank, 
which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman