DRN-4139962
The complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that Caspian Assured Ltd (Caspian) mis-sold them personal 
accident insurance policies. 
What happened
In January 2020, Caspian telephoned Ms M in response to an enquiry shed made about
buying life insurance. Ms M confirmed she was seeking to replace a life insurance policy
which her and Mr M had in the past. Caspian sold Ms M two insurance policies which, for the
most part, only provided cover for accidental injury and accidental death. Ms Ms policy cost
£24 per month and Mr Ms policy cost £27 per month.
In September 2022, Ms M became aware that she hadnt been sold the cover shed asked
for and she complained to Caspian. Caspian said Ms M had been sold the most appropriate
cover for her and Mr M at the time, but that shed been given incorrect information about one
element of the cover available under the policies. Caspian offered to refund Ms M the
premiums paid for her and Mr Ms policies from the date the policies were taken out until 20
September 2022 (when Ms M said she wanted to cancel the policies).
Unhappy, Ms M brought her and Mr Ms complaint to our service.
The personal accident insurance was subsequently reinstated with additional extra units of
cover at Ms Ms request while she looked for alternative life insurance. In January 2023, Mr
M obtained life insurance cover with a level benefit of £80,000 for a monthly premium of
£136.25. Ms M later provided evidence to show that, after some difficulties in sourcing
alternative cover, she obtained life insurance in March 2023 with a benefit level of $50,000
for a monthly premium of $137.20.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought Caspians
offer to refund the policy premiums was a fair resolution to the complaint. Ms M didnt agree
with our investigators findings, so the complaint was referred to me. I made my provisional 
decision about Mr and Ms Ms complaint earlier this month. In it, I said: 
Ive taken into account everything Ms M and Mr M have told us, as well as all the
documentary evidence theyve sent us. But I wont be addressing every complaint point
raised  nor am I obliged to. Instead, reflecting the informal nature of our service, Ill only be
addressing what I think are the key issues.
Were the personal accident policies mis-sold?
The sale of these personal accident insurance policies was carried out on an advised basis.
This means that, under relevant industry rules and guidance, Caspian needed to make sure
the policies were suitable for Ms M and Mr M. Caspian also needed to provide Ms M and Mr
M with information about the policies that was clear, fair and not misleading.
I disagree with Caspians submissions that Ms M and Mr M were advised to buy the correct
insurance policies. Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied that Ms M and Mr Ms
personal accident insurance policies were mis-sold by Caspian and Ill explain why.
During the call with Caspian, I think Ms M made it clear that she was seeking life insurance.
Ms M specifically stated that she wanted insurance to provide cover if she or Mr M were to
pass away. Caspians adviser referred to life insurance on several occasions throughout the
call. While Caspians adviser, around halfway through the call, described the policies being
sold as covering accidental sickness and accidental death, he again referred to the product
as life insurance within the same sentence. So, I can understand why Ms M believed she
was buying life insurance and I dont think Caspian sufficiently highlighted the exclusions
and limitations of the policies being sold to Ms M and Mr M.
Ms M went on to ask Caspian a number of questions about how the policies would work in
the event of either her passing away first or both her and Mr M passing away at the same
time. At no point in response to these questions did Caspians adviser explain that the main
benefits of the policy were only payable in the event of accidental death. Towards the end of
the conversation, Ms M asked about the benefits payable on a death arising from natural
causes and Caspians adviser incorrectly said the policies would pay out £150,000 in these
circumstances.
Caspian didnt sell Ms M and Mr M the policies theyd asked for. And I dont think the
personal accident insurance policies which Caspian sold Ms M and Mr M were suitable for
their demands and needs at the time. I also dont think Caspian gave Ms M appropriate
information about the policies before the contracts were concluded.
I understand that Ms M and/or Mr M may have been eligible to benefit from the personal
accident policies and I also understand that documents outlining the main benefits,
exclusions and limitations of the policies were sent to them after the contracts were
concluded. But these points dont change my provisional findings that these policies were
mis-sold during the telephone call in January 2020. Caspian has also said that Ms M and/or
Mr M held a personal accident insurance policy previously, but I dont think this is relevant
when determining whether these particular personal accident policies were appropriately
sold.
As Im satisfied the personal accident insurance policies were mis-sold, this means Caspian
needs to put Ms M and Mr M back in the position they would have been in if Caspian hadnt
made the error it did in 2020.
What position would Ms M and Mr M have been in if these policies hadnt been mis-sold?
Firstly, Ms M and Mr M would never have paid the premiums they did for the personal
accident insurance policies. So, Caspian needs to refund the premiums paid, with interest,
from the date the policies were sold. But I dont think Caspian needs to refund any of the
premiums paid after 20 September 2022. I can understand why, in the circumstances, Ms M
chose to reinstate the cover but this was her choice and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to
require Caspian to refund the cost of this.
One of the potential remedies which Ms M and Mr M have mentioned theyre seeking is for
Caspian to pay them the level of life insurance benefit which they thought they were entitled
to under their personal accident policies. But, in situations where a business gives incorrect
advice, wed generally recommend that the business put things right by putting the consumer
back in the position they would have been in if the correct advice had been given  and not
as if the incorrect advice had been true.
Ive thought carefully about what position Ms M and Mr M would have been in if Caspian
hadnt mis-sold these personal accident insurance policies. Ive considered everything Ms Mhas said about her and Mr Ms age increases since 2020, as well as what Ms M has said
about the changes to her health since then. I understand Ms M says the cost of Mr Ms life
insurance premiums have gone up since 2020, and the benefit levels have reduced. And I
think its clear that Ms M had serious difficulty in sourcing alternative life insurance cover for
herself and eventually obtained this outside of the UK market, at a higher cost than what she
has said would have been available in 2020. Ive also taken into account Ms Ms
explanations as to why a joint policy was especially important to her and Mr Ms personal
circumstances.
I appreciate that Ms M and Mr M previously held a life insurance policy with an insurer which
Ill call A in 2014 for a monthly premium of £30. But this doesnt demonstrate that Ms M and
Mr M would have been able to buy similar life insurance at a similar price nearly six years
later, in circumstances where both the market and Ms M and Mr Ms health may have
changed considerably.
Ms M has provided quotes from A showing that life insurance cover was available for
monthly premiums of £24.44 or £58.68 in July 2020, but the information provided by Ms M
doesnt contain details of the health questions asked and answered so I cant fairly conclude
that these quotes accurately reflect a valid offer of life insurance cover for the prices
mentioned. And, in any event, Caspian has sent us what I think is persuasive evidence to
demonstrate that A (who Caspian says is its key life insurance supplier) wouldnt have
offered any life insurance cover to Ms M in 2020.
Overall, Im satisfied that its likely Caspian wouldnt have been able to sell Ms M life
insurance cover in 2020. However, I accept that if Caspian had told Ms M this, she may have
been in a position to attempt to source life cover with a different insurance broker.
Turning to Mr M, Caspian has been unable to confirm what life insurance policies it would
have been above to offer him in 2020 because of factors such as the very limited information
which it has about his medical history.
In reaching my provisional findings, Ive given significant persuasive weight to some of the
comments made by Ms M during her telephone call with Caspian. Ms M was, in my opinion,
very clear that financial considerations were a high priority for her and that she didnt want to
spend more than £50 per month in total on the premiums for life insurance policies for
herself and Mr M. Having considered all the available evidence, and even if I accept its likely
that life insurance policies could have been sourced by Caspian (or by another broker) in
January 2020, I think its unlikely that the total premiums would have been at a level which
were affordable or suitable for Ms M and Mr M. So, in summary, I dont think its likely that
Ms M and Mr M would have been able to secure life insurance cover in 2020 for the price
they were prepared to pay at that time.
While Im sorry to disappoint Ms M and Mr M, theres simply not sufficient evidence upon
which I could fairly direct Caspian to cover the difference in premiums for the life insurance
policies which Ms M and Mr M are paying for now and the amount they think they should
have been paying for similar cover in 2020.
However, I think Caspian should pay compensation to Ms M and Mr M for the distress and
inconvenience they experienced. Ive considered the impact of Caspians error on Ms M and
Mr M, including the stress and frustration that arose because of the overall situation. When
deciding what level of compensation I think would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances, Ive also taken into account Ms M and Mr Ms disappointment and loss of
expectation at learning they didnt have the insurance policies theyd asked for, as well as
the inconvenience caused (for Ms M in particular) in arranging alternative cover. Overall, I
think a total payment of £500 compensation would be fair and reasonable in thecircumstances.
Im aware this outcome wont be what Ms M and Mr M were hoping for, but Im currently
satisfied that my provisional directions   are fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
Mr and Ms M didnt agree with my provisional findings. They said, contrary to a comment in 
my provisional decision, they sent us a health questionnaire for my attention. They also said 
they intend to take the matter to court to seek damages  particularly in relation to the mis-
sale of Mr Ms policy. 
Caspian said it would abide by my provisional decision but referred to certain comments 
made by its adviser during the call with Ms M in January 2020. Caspian also reiterated that 
documents outlining the cover offered under the personal accident policies were sent to Mr 
and Ms M after the policies were sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont dispute that Mr and Ms M sent us a health questionnaire  but it doesnt relate to the 
July 2020 quotes. This final decision will not be legally binding on Caspian unless Mr and Ms 
M accept it. If Mr and Ms M wish to take this matter to court then its open to them to reject 
my final decision and take legal action instead. A final decision cannot be accepted or 
rejected in part so, if Mr and Ms M want Caspian to pay them only part of the settlement 
which Im directing, then theyd need to agree this with Caspian directly. 
The fact that Caspians adviser may have correctly described the insurance policies and 
their features at certain points during the sales call doesnt change what I think were other 
overall fundamental errors in how these policies were sold. And Ive already explained that 
documents sent to Mr and Ms M after the sale of these contracts was concluded isnt 
relevant to whether I think the policies were mis-sold during the telephone conversation in 
January 2020.
For these reasons, as well as for the reasons set out in my provisional findings, I wont be 
changing my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Caspian Assured Ltd needs to put things right and do the following:
refund Ms M and Mr M the premiums they paid for their personal accident insurance
policies from the date of inception until 20 September 2022, together with interest at
8% simple per annum from the date each premium was paid until the date the refund
is given;
pay Ms M and Mr M a total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
they experienced.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Ms Ms complaint against Caspian Assured Ltd in part and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman