DRN-2834447
The complaint
Miss D complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as MINI Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss D, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss D acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMWFS were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. But this problem occurred after Miss D had 
been in possession of the car for about a year. So, legislation puts the onus on Miss D to 
demonstrate the problem was present from the beginning.
I can understand that this would have been a distressing incident for Miss D, and she will, no 
doubt, have been concerned about her god daughter who I understand was with her when 
the rear window shattered. But Im afraid I dont think sufficient evidence has been provided 
to demonstrate that this car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
The car was already four years old when the issue occurred, and I think its likely that if there 
was a problem with the rear window, or the operation of the retractable roof, it would have 
been noticeable earlier. It is of course possible that by the time Miss D took receipt of the car 
in 2019 there was some damage developing that eventually led to the rear window 
shattering. But theres been no investigation into why the window shattered and I dont think 
Miss D has been able to provide enough evidence it shattered due to a fault that was 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Miss D suggests there should have been an error message preventing her from retracting 
the roof. The dealer says there isnt a warning in the car but referred Miss D to the handbook 
in which the consumer is reminded to keep the loading area clear when retracting the roof. 
Even if there was a warning or a fool proof system to prevent the roof retracting when, for 
instance, an obstacle was in the way, the relevant legislation would require Miss D to 
demonstrate that fault was present, or developing, when she took receipt of the car. Im not 
persuaded that information has been provided.
Im asked to consider what was most likely to have happened and, given the age of the car, 
the length of ownership and the lack of any investigation into what caused the problem; I 
dont think Miss D has been able to provide enough information that this car was faulty when 
supplied. 
I understand that Miss D is also unhappy that a tyre pressure monitor has been bent; her key 
has needed two batteries and theres been a tear in a tyre since the car was supplied to her. 
I think these are wear and tear issues that may be expected in any car. I dont think they 
suggest BMWFS supplied a car that was of unsatisfactory quality.
Im therefore not asking BMWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman