DRN-2303870
The complaint
Mr N complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy following the theft of his car. 
What happened
Mr Ns car was stolen by a pretended potential buyer whod come to view it. Mulsanne 
investigated the claim and declined it on the basis of the policys keys in car exclusion. It 
said Mr N wasnt in a position at the time to deter a theft, so it didnt think hed taken 
reasonable care of his car.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. Mr Ns first language 
isnt English. The investigator thought Mr Ns first account of what had happened at the time 
of the theft may have been lost in translation. So he relied on Mulsannes investigation report 
from an independent interpreter. 
In this account, Mr N had said he went a few metres away from the car to call his wife to 
bring the cars documents. The doors were closed, and the key was in the ignition with the 
engine running when the thief took the car. Our investigator thought Mr N didnt think there 
was any risk of theft and so he thought Mr N had taken reasonable care. So he thought 
Mulsanne had unreasonably and unfairly declined the claim. 
He thought Mulsanne should now consider the claim on the remaining terms and conditions 
and, if a payment was made, it should add interest to this. 
Mulsanne replied that Mr N wasnt in a position to deter the theft. It asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I can see that Mr Ns policy has 
the following exclusion:
Vehicle Theft  loss or damage to your vehicle if: the keys or other ignition devices 
have been left in the vehicle; if the vehicle has been left with the engine running; the 
vehicle has not been secured;
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording 
and in the summary or Key Facts document. And I see that its included in both. So I think 
the exclusion was reasonably drawn to Mr Ns attention and its fair for Mulsanne to rely on it 
to decline a claim. 
So Ive looked at the circumstances of the theft and considered whether its fair for Mulsanne 
to rely on the exclusion to decline Mr Ns claim. 
In similar cases, Id normally prefer to rely on the first report of the theft as thats the closest 
in time when recollections are likely to be clearest. But in Mr Ns case, I dont think that 
would be reasonable. This is because his first notification to Mulsanne was made through his 
daughter and a friend translating for him. So I think some caution should be given with 
regard to the accuracy of what was then said.
Mulsanne instructed an independent interpreter to interview Mr N and the interview took 
place a month after the theft. From what I can see, I think this was before Mulsanne declined 
the claim. The interpreter had no reason to disbelieve Mr Ns account. So I think its 
reasonable to rely on this as the more reliable version of events. 
What is clear from both accounts is that Mr N was cleaning his car outside his house in 
preparation for a pre-arranged potential buyer. The buyer arrived, and Mr N turned the 
engine on to demonstrate the car. The buyer then asked for the cars paperwork, which was 
inside the house.
In the initial call Mr N was said to have gone inside his house to collect this paperwork, 
leaving the car unattended with the keys in the ignition. In the investigation report, Mr N said 
he stepped four metres away from the car to call for his wife to bring the papers. The thief 
then jumped into the car and drove off. 
I think, as Ive explained above, that its fairer to Mr N to rely on the latter account which he 
provided directly rather than through a translator.  
I have to consider whether Mr N took reasonable care to protect his car and if this led to the 
theft. Mr N had a contact number for the potential buyer. Mr N had his back to the car but 
was within a few metres of it. And hed closed the cars doors. So I think Mr N was within 
reasonable distance of his car to deter the theft, and so I dont think he left it unattended. 
So I dont think Mr N voluntarily handed over control of his car to the potential buyer. And I 
dont think Mr N considered there was any risk in stepping away from the car to call his wife. 
So I cant say that Mr N acted recklessly or failed to take reasonable care. 
And so I think its unfair and unreasonable for Mulsanne to rely on the keys in car exclusion 
to decline Mr Ns claim.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr N, I think Mulsanne should do the following:
1. Consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
2. If any payment is made, interest should be added to this at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of the repudiation to the date of settlement. 
3. HM Revenue & Customs requires Mulsanne to take off tax from this interest. Mulsanne 
must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman