DRN-3768195
The complaint
Mrs M complains about delays and poor service by Equifax Limited after she raised 
concerns about an entry on her credit file.
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs M contacted Equifax as shed found a communications provider had 
noted her as deceased on her credit file. Mrs M asked Equifax to investigate and take steps 
to have the incorrect information removed. 
Equifax recorded the concerns but didnt take the necessary steps to investigate the entry 
until Mrs M chased a response. Equifax then contacted the communications provider and the 
incorrect data was removed. 
Mrs M complained and explained a savings account application had been declined as a 
result of the information. Equifax issued a final response an apologised for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ms complaint. They upheld Mrs Ms complaint 
and asked Equifax to pay her £50 for the inconvenience caused. Equifax agreed. Mrs M 
asked to appeal and said shed had to chase Equifax to resolve the error and that even after 
it assured her the information had been removed it was still visible. As Mrs M asked to 
appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I agree that Equifax failed to take quick action to resolve Mrs Ms concerns. Mrs M first 
raised the issue in January 2022 but it took over two months before the deceased flag was 
removed from the entry in question. I agree with Mrs M that she shouldve expected a better 
level of service. And I can see she chased Equifax for updates and queried responses 
provided during that time. 
I can also see that shortly after Mrs M reported the issue to Equifax it contacted her to say it 
couldnt find a record of the deceased flag appearing on her credit report. But, around a 
month later, Mrs M went back to Equifax and challenged it further. From that point, Equifax 
took reasonably quick action and contacted the reporting business. The information was 
removed from Mrs Ms credit file a short time later. I agree there were unnecessary delays 
and the service provided was poor at times. Im pleased Mrs Ms entry now appears correct.
Mrs M has told us she wants Equifax to explain how the deceased flag was passed to her 
bank and why. But the flag was reported by another business on Mrs Ms credit file. The 
process is largely automated and whilst the information was wrong, it didnt originate with 
Equifax. It was only after the issue was investigated that Equifax was able to remove it. 
Mrs M has also asked why Equifax first failed to find the deceased flag. Equifax hasnt told 
us why but I think it was most likely a mistake made during the complaint investigation. 
I agree that the service provided shouldve been better and that there were delays. I 
appreciate Mrs M experienced some difficulties opening an account and has found the 
process of raising her concerns with Equifax frustrating. The investigator upheld Mrs Ms 
complaint and asked Equifax to pay her £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Whilst I understand Mrs M is likely to be disappointed with my decision, Im satisfied the £50 
settlement offered reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused and is a fair way 
to resolve her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Equifax Limited to pay her £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman