DRN-3300129
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way St Andrews Insurance Plc has dealt with a subsidence claim 
he made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S got in touch with St Andrews in June 2017 to make a claim for subsidence damage 
affecting his flat. Other neighbours in the block also made claims to their respective insurers.
St Andrews accepted the claim for damage to Mr S flat and appointed a loss adjuster, IG, to 
arrange the repairs. A neighbours insurer appointed a different loss adjuster, C, and it was 
agreed they would lead the claim for the things that affected the entire block  stopping the 
cause of subsidence and arranging external building repairs.
I understand the cause of subsidence was identified as a collapsed drain and C had 
arranged for that to be repaired prior to Mr S making the claim. IG was satisfied that meant 
the building was stable and repairs to Mr S flat could be arranged.
Mr S received a schedule of work in late 2019, but he didnt think this reflected the 
necessary repairs  or what had been suggested earlier in the claim. He heard from two 
different builders appointed by IG in 2020, but neither began work.
In August 2020, Mr S complained about the lack of progress with the repairs. He questioned 
whether the delay had been caused by St Andrews setting a limit on the amount it would 
pay. And he wasnt persuaded the repairs proposed by IG would put things right.
In summary, St Andrews said:
The schedule of repair had been approved by IG and was correct.
But if Mr S provided evidence to show the schedule wasnt right, St Andrews would 
review it.
St Andrews would pay the cost to carry out a like for like repair. It hadnt set a limit 
on how much this might be.
There had been lengthy and unacceptable delays. It apologised for the poor service 
and paid Mr S £400 compensation.
After a further exchange between Mr S and St Andrews, he referred his complaint to this 
service. Hes made a number of points. Ill summarise the key ones:
Mr S thought IG had compiled a schedule of work in 2018, which was more 
comprehensive than the one provided in 2019, and queried what had happened to it. 
He was also concerned that the block of flats may not have stabilised.
When he asked to see engineering reports or monitoring, he was passed between IG 
and C  without being given any information.
He was particularly concerned about damage to his chimney and whether this was 
caused by subsidence.
During the time hes been waiting for repairs, hes had to live with the damage and its 
impact. That included sticking doors and windows, which made his flat hotter and 
harder to ventilate in the summer.
Unrelated to the subsidence claim, his boiler broke down in 2018. On the 
understanding that building repairs would be carried out soon, he thought it would be 
best to combine putting the subsidence repairs with the work required for a new 
heating system  but subsequent delays meant being without a boiler in 2019 and 
2020 as well.
Our investigator concluded that St Andrews should pay an additional £300 compensation, 
making £700 in total. He was satisfied the subsidence movement had been stopped and the 
schedule of work put forward by St Andrews was reasonable. He wasnt persuaded the 
evidence showed the chimney problems were associated with subsidence.
St Andrews agreed to pay the additional compensation suggested by the investigator.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. He questioned what had happened 
to the 2018 schedule of work and noted he still hadnt received any information about the 
subsidence problem from IG or C.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are a number of different points to this complaint, Ive split my findings into sub-
sections. Whilst Ive read and thought about all the points made, Ill only comment on those I 
consider to be relevant to resolving this dispute.
Building Stability
When an insurer accepts a subsidence claim, its generally required to carry out a lasting 
and effective repair of the subsidence damage. That means stabilising the building, usually 
by stopping the cause of the movement. And then carrying out building repairs. And its 
usual best practice to share relevant information with the policyholder, like engineering 
reports and monitoring results, to evidence the stability of the building.
Because of that, St Andrews is responsible for ensuring Mr S flat is stable before it carries 
out repairs. Another insurer has taken the lead in stabilising and monitoring the building, but 
that doesnt change St Andrews responsibility to Mr S. It must be satisfied the building is 
stable, even if the stabilisation has been brought about and confirmed by another party.
St Andrews appointed IG, who reported after its initial inspection in July 2017 that the 
drainage repairs had been completed around six months earlier. It also noted a period of 
monitoring had taken place and confirmed stability. It was satisfied it was appropriate to 
schedule up and carry out building repairs.
On the face of it, this shows St Andrews fulfilled its responsibility to ensure Mr S flat had 
stabilised. Where the cause of subsidence is stopped, such as by repairing a leaking drain, 
the subsoil and building will usually return to stability after a period of time.Mr S recently took advice from a structural engineer, D. They said, there is every likelihood 
that the movement will eventually stabilise and recommended monitoring be used to check 
that all movement has stopped. This is consistent with the approach St Andrews taken.
However, St Andrews hasnt provided a copy of the monitoring or other information about 
the stability of the building, such as engineering reports from IG or C. It would be reasonable 
for St Andrews to show Mr S why its satisfied its fulfilled its duty to ensure the building has 
been stabilised. In response to this provisional decision, it should provide the monitoring 
information and any relevant engineering reports about the stability of the building. This will 
be shared with Mr S.
Assuming the information supports the position St Andrews has taken, Im likely to find that 
St Andrews has shown Mr S flat is stable and repairs are the appropriate next step.
I understand Mr S was concerned about damage to his chimney. He provided comments 
from a builder in 2020, who had carried out repairs several years earlier. They described 
some new damage that had arisen between inspections. But they didnt say whether they 
thought it had been caused by subsidence or something else. D said there was no evidence 
of recent movement to the chimney.
Because of this, Im not persuaded the chimney damage has been caused by subsidence. 
And nor does it indicate Mr S flat is yet to stabilise.
If Mr S remains concerned that the building may not be stable, hes entitled to take more 
advice about it. I would expect St Andrews to consider any evidence Mr S may provide.
Schedule of work
As the evidence available indicates the flat is stable, I think it was reasonable for St 
Andrews to move to the repair phase of the claim. Usually that involves creating a schedule 
of repair by inspecting the damage with the builder, agreeing that schedule with the 
policyholder, and then making arrangements to carry out the work.
Mr S has questioned whether a schedule of work was created in 2018. IG agrees there were 
multiple visits to Mr S flat in 2018. It says they were carried out by a contractor it no longer 
uses. Its unclear whether a schedule was produced by that contractor. But even if it was, IG 
doesnt have access to it.
Whether or not an earlier schedule existed  and regardless of what it may have contained  
the important thing now is for the current schedule to be a fair reflection of the work required 
to carry out a lasting and effective repair of the subsidence damage.
I understand IG and its builder visited Mr S in October 2019. And a month later had 
approved a schedule of work. St Andrews has shown it to us. It contains a detailed 
floorplan, including relevant measurements. It also contains a list of work, broken down room 
by room, of what St Andrews intends to do. It appears repairs are scheduled for every room 
of the flat. Im satisfied its a credible and thorough assessment of the work required.
Any schedule is always an estimate of the likely work involved  sometimes its only when 
starting work that the full extent of damage and necessary repair becomes clear, so some 
variation to the schedule is common. St Andrews has agreed to consider whether further 
work is required once it gets started on the repairs. I think thats reasonable.
My role in this complaint isnt to act as a quantity surveyor and assess the detail of the 
schedule  its to consider the evidence available to decide whether St Andrews has treated Mr S fairly. Mr S hasnt provided an alternative schedule of work and when he questioned a 
few points, St Andrews gave him a clear and reasonable answer. So I havent seen anything 
to persuade me a change to the schedule of work is required. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest St Andrews has set a limit or cap on the amount it would 
pay for the work. The policy has a maximum sum insured, but thats significantly greater than 
the estimated cost of the repairs.
Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded St Andrews has acted unfairly on this 
point. The evidence shows the schedule is reasonable and its agreed to adapt it if need be.
Mr S is still entitled to let St Andrews know if he thinks anything else is missing from it. Or to 
provide an alternative schedule. In either case, Id expect St Andrews to consider whether it 
should change its schedule.
Claim handling
St Andrews has conceded that it caused considerable avoidable delays. That the claim has 
taken longer than it should have done to reach this position isnt in dispute.
As a result, I wont go into detail about exactly what happened throughout the claim. Ill focus 
on establishing how much of a delay there was, the impact on Mr S  and what the 
appropriate level of compensation is in these circumstances.
In summary, St Andrews asked IG to handle the claim in June 2017. It visited soon after, 
and established the building was stable and repairs could be carried out. Yet the visit which 
led to the current schedule didnt take place until October 2019. After that the schedule was 
created and sent to Mr S promptly.
Its unclear why it took over two years to reach that stage. St Andrews has accepted there 
were numerous unnecessary visits to Mr S flat during that time. But ultimately a schedule of 
work wasnt created until October 2019. The delay may have been caused by IGs former 
contractor, IG itself, or a lack of oversight by St Andrews  perhaps a combination. But as St 
Andrews is responsible for all three of these parties, I dont think it matters which it was. The 
key point is that St Andrews is responsible for a considerable and avoidable delay.
In the meantime, Mr S was living in a damaged flat. I think it would have been distressing for 
him to see the damage but have little, if any, idea about when it might be fixed  especially 
over such a prolonged period of time. I also think it would have been inconvenient for him to 
accommodate a number of unnecessary visits during this time  when only the one in 
October 2019 which led to the current schedule was necessary.
Mr S has described the problems brought about by living in a flat where the windows had 
become stuck, in part due to the building movement, and there was little ventilation, causing 
him particular discomfort in the heat of the summer. He says he spent more on air 
conditioning than he usually would as a result.
He acknowledges the boiler breaking down was unrelated to the subsidence problem. But 
because the radiators were on walls with crack damage, it made sense for him to postpone 
work to the heating system until the building damage could be resolved. And he quite rightly 
had the expectation that would be carried out promptly. He says he spent more than he 
usually would on electricity to heat his flat in the winter as a result of the boiler problem.
Mr S has provided evidence of these costs. St Andrews has offered to estimate the likely 
additional costs, over and above that Mr S would usually spend. I think thats a reasonable approach to take. In response to this provisional decision, St Andrews should set out its 
estimate so I can consider it and make a specific award in my final decision.
After Mr S received the 2019 schedule, he paid the policy excess in January 2020 to enable 
repairs to begin. He says a builder visited him in February but had a different schedule and 
ultimately they chose not to carry out the work for him. After that, the impact of Covid 19 
meant things couldnt progress until later in the year. Mr S says he then heard from a builder 
who was ready to start work that day, but who didnt have a schedule of work with them. This 
led to Mr S making a complaint.
St Andrews has accepted there were further avoidable delays in 2020. Setting aside the 
time periods when Covid 19 restrictions prevented it from taking action, this amounted to 
several further months of avoidable delay. It also meant further visits to Mr S flat that didnt 
add meaningfully to the claim experience. 
Ive thought about the impact on Mr S of the avoidable problems caused by St Andrews, 
particularly the avoidable delays and additional visits. Overall, I consider a total 
compensation figure of £1,200 would be reasonable and proportionate to the distress and 
inconvenience caused. That includes anything already paid or offered by St Andrews.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded. Ill summarise what they said. St Andrews said:
It thought the additional compensation I asked it to pay was disproportionate to the 
inconvenience it had caused. But it agreed to pay it to bring an end to matters.
It also agreed to estimate and pay the additional heating and air conditioning costs 
Mr S faced. It said it would need further information from Mr S to do this.
And it provided the monitoring readings, which were shared with Mr S.
And Mr S said:
IG had been unclear about how many times it and/or its contractors had visited over 
the years. And their schedule of work took multiple visits to produce, not just one.
He told St Andrews his door had jammed shut in 2020 but received no response.
St Andrews and IG didnt carry out any monitoring of their own. The monitoring they 
provided was from a neighbours flat. Its not accompanied by an engineering report.
He thought the builders had indicated the current schedule of work was less 
comprehensive than an earlier version.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
St Andrews has now provided the monitoring data. It shows five readings were taken, over a 
period of around 15 months. The last reading was taken in 2017. The readings werent taken 
by St Andrews or its agent, so it wasnt in direct control of them. But it was relying on these 
readings to show Mr S flat was stable. And it was clear Mr S was concerned about the 
stability of his flat. So I think it should have done more to share them Mr S much earlier than 
it did. Ive factored that into the amount of compensation Ive awarded.
Its agreed the readings arent from Mr S flat, but they are from another flat in the same 
building. Because of that, Im satisfied theyre a reasonable indicator of the position in Mr S flat. IG says the readings show stability with all movement within tolerable limits. I agree the 
results arent consistent with the degree of movement usually seen when a building is 
actively subsiding. And the readings have been taken over a reasonable period of time.
Whilst there isnt an accompanying engineering report with the readings, Im persuaded the 
readings alone support IGs view on stability. I also take into account that D didnt suggest 
the flat was actively moving. Because of this, I remain satisfied St Andrews has shown Mr S 
flat is likely to be stable and its appropriate to carry out repairs.
Its clear Mr S is concerned the repairs scheduled may not be sufficient. But no further 
information has been provided to show what repairs he thinks should be carried out. So I 
remain satisfied that St Andrews schedule is reasonable.
St Andrews has agreed to pay the compensation I asked it to and also to estimate and pay 
the additional heating and air conditioning costs. Mr S didnt comment on these points 
directly, although he did question the amount of visits St Andrews and its agents had made.
Overall, Im satisfied £1,200 is reasonable and proportionate compensation for the avoidable 
distress and inconvenience caused by significant delays, many unnecessary or ineffective 
visits, and poor communication at times. The lack of response to the jammed door is an 
example of that.
Im also satisfied its reasonable for St Andrews to pay the additional costs that have 
resulted from the subsidence problem. If St Andrews needs more information to do this, it 
should let Mr S know exactly what it needs.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require St Andrews Insurance Plc to:
Estimate and pay the additional heating and air conditioning costs.
Pay a total of £1,200 compensation.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman