DRN-4301735
The complaint
Mr A complains about the excesses charged by British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL) under 
his HomeCare policy for repairs, as he thinks the problems ought to have been picked up at 
his annual service. He also thinks BGIL failed to inform him of a fault with his boiler after his 
energy use increased. 
What happened
Mr A held a HomeCare insurance policy with BGIL. He received some bills from his energy 
provider (British Gas Trading Limited) in 2022 which informed him that his energy usage had 
increased. Mr A wanted BGIL to carry out a service on his boiler, but BGIL said it would have 
to be logged as a claim and subject to an excess. 
An engineer attended and identified a fault with the pressure release valve, and replaced the 
part. The engineer also carried out an annual service. Then around a month later, Mr B 
reported further issues with his boiler, as well as his immersion heater. BGIL carried out 
repairs and again charged an excess for each repair. 
Mr A was unhappy with this, as he thought the annual service ought to have identified the 
issues with the boiler and immersion heater. He also thought the problem with the pressure 
valve ought to have been picked up at the previous service, and that he should have been 
contacted by BGIL under his HomeCare policy when his energy usage had increased.
BGIL issued its final response. It said the service of a boiler is to ensure it is working safely, 
and if a repair is needed, then an excess would still be payable. It confirmed that each repair 
had a £50 excess. Although Mr A wanted to be reimbursed for his excessive usage of gas, it 
said the meter readings were estimates and it couldnt say when or why the usage 
happened. Unhappy with BGILs response, Mr A brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think BGIL would 
have known there was an issue unless Mr A had reported it. She also thought BGIL had 
applied the excesses correctly.  
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained to Mr A that we cant consider any concerns he might have about British 
Gas Trading Limited as his energy provider (which includes his concerns about his smart 
meter and frequency of energy bills). Ive therefore only considered Mr As concerns about 
BGIL as the insurer of his HomeCare policy.  
Mr A wants BGIL to refund his initial excess because the engineer carried out a service at 
the same time. However, the policy says that an excess is the amount paid towards each 
completed repair. I dont think BGIL did anything wrong by carrying out the annual service at 
the same time as it attended to fix the fault. This meant Mr A wouldnt be inconvenienced by 
having an engineer come out again to do the service. 
I note Mr A is concerned that the annual service was rushed as he thinks the engineer ought 
to have identified the issue with his boiler and immersion heater at this time. The repair 
information says that the insulation panel needed to be replaced on the boiler, and a switch 
needed to be replaced on the immersion heater.  However, Mr A only noticed the problems 
over a month after the service had taken place, which would suggest that they werent 
present at that time. So I cant conclude that the engineer missed these issues.
Mr A also says he thinks the problem with the pressure valve ought to have been identified 
at the previous service. I dont know when the pressure valve failed. So I cant say that BGIL 
ought to have identified this issue at the previous service, even if checking this did form part 
of the service. 
The policy says that an excess wouldnt be payable if a fault is related to one BGIL has fixed 
in the last 12 months. According to the repairs log, the repairs that BGIL carried out werent 
repeat repairs from the previous 12 months. I therefore find that it was reasonable for BGIL 
to apply an excess for each repair it carried out. 
Mr A thinks BGIL ought to have brought it to his attention under his HomeCare policy that his 
energy usage had increased and there may be a fault. However, the policy doesnt require 
BGIL to monitor energy usage. So I dont find that BGIL did anything wrong here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman