DRN-2522436
The complaint
Mr M complains about how AWP P&C SA dealt with a claim against his annual, multi trip 
travel insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes reference to its agents.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In response to the investigators view, Mr M said that his complaint isnt about 
timeliness of AWPs service but is about the quality of service he received. 
AWP hasnt been able to provide recordings of Mr Ms phone calls from the treating 
hospital. Mr M says that he made those calls from the phone of a member of staff at 
the treating hospital. Hes provided what he thinks may be the number from which he 
called. AWP says that it no longer has recordings of calls from 2019. AWP isnt 
obliged to retain call recordings. So, I dont have the benefit of those call recordings 
to assist me in determining the quality of service Mr M received. 
AWP has provided its notes of Mr Ms claim for medical assistance. Those notes 
dont show that it provided Mr M with poor service but there were clearly 
communication issues. The notes show that Mr M told AWP that he didnt have a 
working mobile phone or an e-mail connection. I dont think that AWP was at fault in 
relation to communication difficulties. 
AWP has provided a recording of one phone call Mr M made in relation to his claim 
for medication costs. Its common ground that AWP dealt with that call appropriately. 
I think that AWP accommodated Mr Ms request for a claim form in a medium he 
could complete. In accordance with the terms of the policy, Mr M is obliged to 
complete a claim form and provide supporting information and documentation. 
As the investigator has previously explained, this service cant deal with complaints 
about complaint handling, as its not a regulated activity. 
Based on the available evidence and information, there are no grounds on which to 
direct AWP to pay Mr M compensation in relation to his claim. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman