DRN-4366927
Complaint
Mr B has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable given his circumstances at the time and 
so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr B with a loan for £1,500.00 in September 2018. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £113.94. One of our adjudicators reviewed what  
Mr B and Likely Loans had told us. And he didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be 
upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a bit more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr B could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Bs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr B could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr B has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans didnt just simply accept what Mr B had told 
it. It carried out credit searches which showed that Mr Bs unsecured credit commitments 
werent excessive in comparison to his income and there was no significant adverse 
information such as defaulted accounts.
I accept that Mr B appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans 
obtained. Im sorry to hear about what Mr B has told us. But its only fair and reasonable for 
me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong.
Given the amount of the monthly payments and the lack of obvious indicators of significant 
difficulty in the information Likely Loans did obtain, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into requesting copies of Mr Bs bank 
statements. At best, even if I were to accept that further checks were necessary, which Im 
not necessarily persuaded is the case here, any such checks would only have gone as far as 
finding out more about Mr Bs regular living costs. And I dont think that obtaining bank 
statements was the only way that Likely Loans could have done this. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr B - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman