DRN-2284222
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited wouldnt cover treatment under his private 
medical insurance policy (the policy). 
What happened
Mr W developed macular degeneration (wet). He was referred to a local eye clinic but 
worried about a delay in getting an appointment, he contacted BUPA towards the end of 
2019 to cover the cost of an initial eye injection he required to treat this condition. 
BUPA declined to cover the cost of the initial eye injection for several reasons; because Mr 
Ws eye condition was a chronic condition, the condition required continuous monitoring and 
treatment and eye injections only provided temporary relief of symptoms. 
Mr W didnt think that was fair. He ended up paying privately for the initial injection he 
required (in the region of £1,300), and thereafter received further eye injections through the 
NHS. Hed like BUPA to cover the cost of the private treatment. Hes also unhappy that 
BUPAs policy terms arent clear as to what conditions are chronic and arent covered.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He didnt think BUPA had acted unfairly. Mr W 
disagreed. He raised several points in reply and referred to medical information about 
macular degeneration. 
Mr Ws complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And I want to assure Mr W that although I havent commented on each point hes raised, I 
have considered everything hes said and provided to us. 
BUPAs decision to decline the claim made by Mr W
BUPA has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
BUPA says eye injections used to treat macular degeneration (wet) dont offer a cure; they 
aim to slow the progression of the condition and provide symptomatic relief on an ongoing 
basis. BUPA also says this condition amounts to a chronic condition.
Relying on this information BUPA declined to cover treatment Mr W required towards the 
end of 2019, consisting of the first eye injection. 
It has sought to rely on the following terms when doing so:
We do not pay for treatment of chronic conditions. By this, we mean a disease, 
illness or injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
-it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations,
check-ups and/or tests
-it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
-it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
-it continues indefinitely
-it has no known cure
-it comes back or is likely to come back.
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment arising out of a chronic condition, or for
treatment of acute symptoms of a chronic condition that flare up. However, we only 
pay if the treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being 
restored fully to your previous state of health, without you having to receive 
prolonged treatment. For example, we pay for treatment following a heart attack 
arising out of chronic heart disease. This exception does not apply to treatment of a 
mental health condition.
For the purpose of this decision, Ill refer to this as exclusion 1.
    We do not pay for:
 preventive treatment, procedures or medical services (including vaccinations)
Ill refer to this as exclusion 2.
We do not pay for treatment, the main purpose or effect of which is to provide
temporary relief of symptoms or which is for the ongoing management of a 
condition.
Ill refer to this as exclusion 3.
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the medical information available to me.
Mr W has provided us with lots of information regarding macular degeneration and its 
different forms. Ive also considered information about this condition provided by the NHS, 
specialist eye hospitals and websites from leading macular degeneration charities and 
organisations. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that there isnt currently a known cure for 
macular degeneration (wet). The medical information Ive seen supports that the condition 
can be stabilised through eye injections - and sometimes the effects of macular 
degeneration (wet) can be reversed somewhat. But for others diagnosed with this condition, 
the eye injections arent so successful, or they may require regular injections for a significant 
amount of time in order to control the symptoms. And the condition needs ongoing 
monitoring. 
Further, the NICE guidelines reflect that all patients should receive a standard loading 
dosage at the start of their treatment: normally three or more consecutive monthly injections. 
Information provided by a leading macular degeneration charity also reflects that: after this 
initial phase, there are a number of treatment regimens that an ophthalmologist can choose. 
Each regimen has a subtle difference in the frequency of appointments. They also vary as to 
whether or not you have an injection at every appointment. The ophthalmologist will tailor 
treatment to individual patients and how their disease is responding to treatment.So, I dont think BUPA has unfairly and unreasonably concluded that macular degeneration 
(wet) is a chronic condition as defined by the policy. Not only is there no known cure but Im 
persuaded that it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, 
examinations, check-ups and/or tests. And, as such, Im persuaded that BUPA has 
reasonably relied on exclusion 1 to decline treatment. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what Mr W says about BUPA covering 
treatment arising out of a chronic condition that flares up, or for treatment of acute symptoms 
of a chronic condition.
However, Im not persuaded that Mr W did experience a flare up of this condition or acute 
symptoms of his chronic condition. At the time he sought to make a claim under the policy, 
hed only recently been told that he had macular degeneration (wet)  for which he says he 
required urgent treatment.
Further, the policy goes on to say: 
we only pay if the treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you 
being restored fully to your previous state of health, without you having to receive 
prolonged treatment.
The literature Mr W has provided me reflects that treatment (consisting of certain eye 
injections) can result in a:
- 90-95% chance of avoiding severe loss of central vision in the eye treated
- 70% chance of keeping the vision as it was when treatment began or a small
improvement in vision
- 30-40% chance of a big improvement in vision i.e. of regaining a large amount of the 
vision that has been lost
This supports that there was a good chance that vision could be kept at the level it was when 
treatment began (or be slightly improved). But, overall, Im not persuaded that the treatment 
Mr W wanted covered was likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or restore him fully to 
his previous state of health without having to receive prolonged treatment. 
Mr W has explained that he responded very well to injections - and his consultant has 
advised that his form of macular degeneration (wet) may be myopia related. As such, he 
says he might only require around seven injections as opposed to 100. However, Ive seen 
no medical evidence to support what Mr W says about that. When first notifying BUPA of the 
treatment he wanted covered, Mr W said he had macular degeneration (wet). And further, at 
the time BUPA took the decision not to cover the first injection, before starting his treatment, 
it couldnt be foreseen how Mr W would respond to the eye injections or whether he would 
require prolonged treatment which is more typically associated with macular degeneration 
(wet).  
Because Im satisfied that BUPA hasnt unfairly declined the claim by relying on exclusion 1, 
I dont need to make a finding about whether it has acted fairly and reasonably by also 
relying on exclusion 2 and exclusion 3 to decline the treatment. 
Not being provided with sufficient information about the policys coverageMr W has told our investigator that hes only been provided with BUPAs membership guide 
 not the policy terms. Although, labelled guide, Im satisfied that these are the terms and 
conditions relating to the policy and the documents are clear about that. 
The Membership certificate says:
this membership certificate must be read together with the membership guide that 
applies for your scheme. Together they set out the details of your benefits under the 
agreement between you and BUPA.
And the membership guide reflects that:
these are the rules and benefits that apply to BUPA members. By this we mean a 
member covered under one of the following BUPA health insurance products as 
shown on their membership certificate.
This BUPA membership guide and your membership certificate together set out full
details of your benefits. They should not be read as separate documents. This 
membership guide is a generic guide. It contains the general membership terms that 
apply to BUPA members. It also sets out all the elements of cover that are available 
for BUPA members under all their schemes. This means that you may not have all 
the cover set out in this membership guide. It is your membership certificate that 
shows the cover that is specific to your benefits and scheme.
Mr W also says that BUPA never been made clear to him either when first taking out the 
policy, or subsequently, what treatment was being insured.
Given how long ago the policy was initially sold to Mr W, BUPA has said it doesnt have any 
paperwork from around the time of the original sale. 
I cant be sure what the terms of the policy wouldve been at the time the policy was first 
sold. However, I think its unlikely that the policy terms wouldve changed significantly to the 
ones that are dated June 2019 (and I have been provided with) and its likely that the policy 
wouldve excluded chronic conditions when first sold. Thats because private medical 
insurance policies dont usually cover chronic conditions. 
Besides, when renewing the policy each year thereafter, Mr W wouldve been provided with 
a revised membership certificate similar to the one issued in May 2019 when the policy was 
due to renew in July 2019. 
It was during the policy year 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020 that Mr W sought to claim to cover 
treatment for his first eye injection. Around the time Mr W was sent the policy renewal quote, 
hes likely to have received the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) dated April 
2019. The IPID summarises what is and isnt covered under the policy. And under the 
section entitled: are there any restrictions on cover? its stated that there are restrictions to 
treatment for chronic conditions. The IPID also refers Mr W to the Full terms and conditions 
of the policycontained in the membership guide and on your membership certificate...
So, Im persuaded that Mr W was made aware of the main benefits and exclusions of the 
policy at the time  including the main restrictions on treatment.
Mr W also says BUPAs policy terms arent clear as to what conditions are considered to be 
chronic and not covered. I accept that the policy doesnt contain a list of conditions which are chronic and acute. 
Again, thats not uncommon in private medical insurance policies as any list is unlikely to be 
exhaustive. However, the policy does provide a definition of chronic condition and so long as 
the condition shares at least one of the characteristics reflected in exclusion 1 above, it will 
be considered chronic.  
So, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. I know hell be disappointed with my decision, but I 
hope it will help Mr W to know that his complaint has been reviewed by someone who is 
impartial and independent of both parties.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman