DRN-4198696
The complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy for assistance with a 
dispute with the co-executor of his late stepfathers will in relation to the estate. 
RSA declined the claim on the basis that, whilst there is cover for probate disputes, 
this doesnt extend to disputes involving the wills of stepparents. 
Mr B didnt think this was a fair way to interpret the policy when many stepparents 
have acted as parents for years (possibly since birth). He says the term parent 
needs no further explanation, whereas its understandable for the policy to 
differentiate between children, stepchildren, and foster children given the nature of 
modern families. 
RSA didnt uphold the complaint, but it did accept that there had been some delays in 
handing the claim and offered £150 compensation for what went wrong. 
Mr J remained dissatisfied, so he brought his complaint to our Service. But our 
Investigator didnt think RSA had done anything wrong or unfair. 
Mr J didnt agree. Hes provided an email from another insurer stating that theyd 
consider a longstanding stepparent as a parent.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
is entitled to decide which risks it wants to cover and which it doesnt, and it will 
charge a premium based on the level of cover its providing. As long as the cover is 
set out clearly in the terms and conditions of the policy, our Service wouldnt involve 
ourselves in these commercial decisions.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs legal expenses policy say it will cover probate 
claims defined as: 
Professional fees to pursue civil legal action in respect of a probate dispute involving 
the will of the beneficiarys parents, grandparents or children (including step-children) 
where the beneficiary is also a beneficiary of the will.
Given that stepchildren have been mentioned specifically, Im satisfied the insurers 
took into account different family setups when considering what circumstances it did 
and didnt want to cover. And Im persuaded that if it wanted to cover disputes 
involving the will of stepparents, it wouldve specifically stated that this was included. 
I think theres a higher risk that the will of a stepparent could be contested compared 
to that of a parent, so Im satisfied RSA has made a decision not to insure that risk by 
omitting stepparents from the policy terms. Based on this, I dont think its fair to 
direct RSA to cover a claim that isnt insured under the policy and for which Mr B 
hasnt paid a premium. 
I appreciate Mr B has obtained statements from other insurers on how theyd 
interpret this policy. But as RSA are the insurer, its not for anyone else to decide 
how the policy is applied. Im satisfied the policy is clear about what it covers and as 
Mr Bs claim doesnt fall within that description, it follows that I think its fair for RSA to 
decline the claim. 
RSA has offered £150 compensation for the delays in communicating its claims 
decision. Should Mr R wish to accept this, he should contact RSA directly to arrange 
payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman