DRN-4189911
The complaint
Mr I complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) restricted and closed his bank 
accounts causing him significant distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
This complaint doesnt deal with a business account for which Mr I is a director of a limited 
company for. Thats because that is a complaint for the limited company, as a separate legal 
entity, to make. So it deals with Mr Is complaint in relation to accounts held in his personal 
and private capacity. 
In September 2022, following an internal review, Mr Is accounts were restricted by NatWest. 
Around two weeks later, in early October 2022, NatWest unblocked Mr Is accounts and he 
was given full access to them. 
Unhappy with NatWests actions, Mr I complained. NatWest didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. In 
its response, and in summary, it said: 
- NatWest hasnt done anything wrong when blocking Mr Is account and it isnt under 
an obligation to give him an explanation 
- NatWest apologised for not returning Mr Is call as it had agreed with regards to the 
account restrictions
Unhappy with what NatWest said, Mr I referred his complaint to this service. 
In January 2023, NatWest sent Mr I a letter giving him notice that it was closing his accounts 
in two months time. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Is complaint. They recommended Mr Is complaint be 
upheld. In short, some of the key findings they made were:
- NatWest has a set of procedures in place for monitoring accounts in order to comply 
with its legal and regulatory obligations
- NatWest hasnt provided enough evidence to show its decision to close Mr Is 
accounts was fair. So because of this it should pay Mr I 8% simple interest for the 
period he was deprived of his funds and pay £100 for the inconvenience it caused 
him by having to make alternative banking arrangements 
- As Mr I had access to his account after the blocks were removed and until the 
accounts were closed, there wasnt much impact to him
In its response, NatWest said it had closed the accounts in line with its terms and conditions 
but will settle the complaint as recommended by our Investigator. Mr I didnt agree and says 
the recommended compensation isnt fair award given he had to borrow £800 from his family 
to meet his commitments. 
As Mr I didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like NatWest, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
NatWest is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before it closes an account, NatWest must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which NatWest and Mr I had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving him at least 60 days notice. And in certain 
circumstances, it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
NatWest is under no obligation that Im aware of to give Mr I and explanation for its actions. 
But if a complaint of this nature is sent to this service, it should explain and show us why it 
has taken such actions. Having carefully reviewed the information NatWest has given me, 
Im satisfied it hasnt provided enough information for me to find it acted in line with its 
obligations and terms of account. 
That means I cant say it acted fairly, and in line with its terms of account and obligations 
when reviewing, restricting and closing Mr Is accounts. So Im satisfied, given I have limited 
information, that NatWest hasnt acted properly here. 
Mr I says the account being restricted caused him distress and inconvenience. And he had 
to borrow money from his family to meet his financial commitments. The account was 
blocked for around two weeks, so I need to consider what impact this had on him during that 
period. Mr I hasnt said NatWests restrictions caused his regular payments to fail, and he 
suggests he was able to get money to meet any commitments. 
I accept that having to borrow money from family wouldve caused some embarrassment. 
But money borrowed in this way isnt likely to be at a cost of interest. And given the blocks 
were for a relative short while, Mr I wouldve been able to pay his family back fairly quickly. I 
also accept NatWests actions would have caused Mr I some distress, so Ill take this into 
account when reaching what I think is fair redress. 
Mr I was also given 60 days notice of his accounts being closed, so I think he had enough 
time to make alternative banking arrangements and move across any regular payments. I 
also note he had full access to his accounts after the blocks were removed. 
Taking this all into account, Im persuaded that £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered his fair compensation. Im also satisfied that 8% simple interest 
from when the blocks were applied to when they were removed is fair redress for the time he 
was deprived of his funds. Putting things right
To put things right, NatWest must: 
- Pay Mr I £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered 
- Pay 8% simple interest* on the balance of his account when it was restricted up until 
when those restrictions were lifted and Mr I was given access
* If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It should also give Mr I a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must now put 
things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman