DRN-2249145
The complaint
Mr H complains that Landmark Mortgages Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when it 
applied fees and charges to his mortgage when it was agreed it wouldnt do so. Mr H was 
also unhappy that his repayments hadnt been correctly recorded on the paperwork. He 
wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Landmark, originally taken out with a different lender with a linked 
unsecured loan and sub-accounts. He got into financial difficulties in 2014 (which Mr H said 
was caused by fraud) but agreed to pay an extra £200 a month to clear the arrears. Mr H 
said that the original lender agreed he wouldnt be charged fees or interest on the arrears, 
and that there wouldnt be an impact on his credit records. He said that hed cleared the 
arrears but had been charged interest and fees; Mr H added that not all the extra payments 
were recorded on the statements hed received. Mr H believed hed been charged twice, and 
interest and fees have been wrongly charged as a result of the missing repayments. He 
added that he was unhappy about having to repay the arrears.
Mr H complained to Landmark. It said that Mr H had raised the issue about having to repay 
the arrears and interest before in 2014, 2016 and 2018 and hed received a full explanation 
each time and been told of the six month time limit to come to this service. The previous final 
response letters had explained that the original lender had been willing to place the arrears 
in a sub-account charging 0% interest to avoid reporting negative information to the credit 
reference agencies if Mr H agreed to keep it updated about the alleged fraud and the 
criminal investigation and repaid the monies he received or could afford to pay as discussed 
with its staff  it said Mr H didnt repay a lump sum or keep it updated so the original lender 
didnt move the arrears into the 0% interest sub-account. 
But Landmark carried out a full review and confirmed Mr H had cleared the arrears and was 
now overpaying his mortgage. It offered to pay £320 plus interest into his mortgage account 
as a goodwill gesture which represented half the administration fees charged, and to update 
Mr Hs credit records to show the mortgage was now up to date.
Mr H complained to us. The investigators view was that Mr H had come too late to this 
service to complain about the original lenders response to the alleged fraud in 2014 or the 
decision to charge interest on the arrears. Hed received final response letters about these 
issues and hadnt come to this service within six months. Mr H accepted this. But the 
investigator thought this service could look at the information within the mortgages 
statements and see if Mr H had been charged twice as he believed, if payments had been 
properly recorded and if any such mistakes had been made, whether it had caused 
Landmark to wrongly charge fees.
The investigator reviewed the transactions, and said that the extra money paid each month 
by Mr H had been properly recorded and split between his three sub-accounts. She said that 
there wasnt any evidence that Landmark had made a mistake.
Mr H disagreed. He said that it wasnt fair and wanted an ombudsmans decision. Mr H 
referred to the other complaints hed raised, but the investigator reminded him why they 
couldnt be considered and that hed accepted this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The alleged fraud which took place in 2014 wasnt the fault of the original lender. As a result 
of what happened, large amounts were taken out of the mortgage balance and increased the 
amount owed to the lender. While Mr H feels strongly that hes a victim and shouldnt have to 
pay the arrears, and that he shouldnt have to pay interest on the arrears, these complaints 
cant be considered by this service for the reasons given by the investigator and accepted by 
Mr H.
This leaves the issue of whether the extra money paid by Mr H towards the arrears has been 
properly accounted for and if any are missing, if this caused additional fees charged by 
Landmark as these points were within the final response letter of July 2019 and hadnt been 
previously raised. Ive considered the evidence available to me, though this service isnt a 
forensic accounting service  Mr H would need to pay for his own independent accountant 
for this. But I can see that the extra payments made by Mr H have been recorded and split 
proportionally across the three sub-accounts, which were all in arrears. Mr H hasnt pointed 
to any missing payments and I cant see any payments which have been incorrectly 
administered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
19 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman