DRN-3616947
The complaint
Mr B complains about not being able to sell his GameStop (GME) shares using his Trading 
212 UK Limited (Trading 212) share trading account. He says he has lost out financially.
What happened
Mr B has complained that Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212) prevented him from selling 
76 shares in GameStop (GME) on 27 January 2021. He lost money as a result which he 
wants Trading 212 to compensate him for. Mr B says that Trading 212 has been complicit in 
the manipulation of the value of the stock.
Mr B has also complained that he wasnt able to transfer his GME shares in-specie when he 
transferred his account to another broker.
Mr B complained to Trading 212 who issued its final response to Mr B. It said;
On 27 January 2021 there was a period of downtime on its platform for some users 
which corresponded with the opening of the US stock market. This was caused by 
unprecedented demand for its services partly because of social media platform users 
citing interest in certain stocks including GME. This was outside of its control.
Its actions were justified, it didnt breach its regulatory or contractual obligations, 
wasnt liable for the disruption of its service nor any losses Mr B may have suffered 
because of the disruption.
When Mr B had entered into his agreement with Trading 212 he had acknowledged 
its platform may be subject to disruption and downtime caused by external factors 
and had agreed to waive any claim against the business in relation to losses suffered 
as a result due to circumstances outside of its reasonable control  a force majeure 
event.
It referred to clause 25 of its terms and it not being liable for any disruptions caused 
by events beyond its control.
Under clause 6.4 of its terms Mr B had agreed to waive any claims against it in 
respect of losses because of lost profits caused by an inability to trade at a specific 
price during a downtime and that he had acknowledged there could be technical 
issues or faults with the trading platform.
Its risk disclosure notice included a reminder that the computer based systems and 
service it used were vulnerable to disruption, delay or failure causing loss of access 
to the trading platform and Mr B had accepted its liability was limited in relation to 
those disruptions. 
On 28 January 2021 it decided to prevent its customers from buying GME (and some 
other stocks) that were experiencing irregular volatility which was outside of its 
control. This was because its own liquidity provider restricted access to GME which 
impacted on its own capacity to offer GME for trading. Its actions were justified. 
Under clause 5.12 of its terms it was permitted to suspend and/or remove from the 
Trading Platform any Financial Instrument and Market Hours at [its] sole discretion. 
It had the power to restrict trading.
It could take such action to materially reduce market disruption and the regulator 
had issued a statement confirming that firms such as Trading 212 werent under any 
legal or regulatory obligation to offer trading facilities to its customers and could 
withdraw its service in line with its terms if it considered it necessary or prudent to do 
so. 
It wasnt obliged to continue to offer an investment for trading that was experiencing 
market volatility. And in line with its terms and regulatory guidance, and market 
practice it was able step in to prevent harm to its client and markets, so it had 
responded appropriately. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the outcome so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered Mr Bs complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
In January/February 2021 the stock market was extremely volatile, caused by social 
media platform comments which increased interest in several companies including 
GME.
The unprecedented market activity in GME caused an extreme strain on the entire 
trade execution ecosystem worldwide and effected almost all trading platforms. 
As examples, the impact of this were additional equity/liquidity requirements, FX 
providers exchanged large amounts of currencies, trading halts and market makers 
not willing to offer prices.
Trading 212 was obliged to take reasonable steps to trade, but if its terms allowed, it 
had some discretion to not execute a trade. But this must be applied fairly. 
Trading 212 had said the outsized trading volumes in the shares generated 
substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades. 
Many execution intermediaries, including the business used by Trading 212, had to 
stop accepting buy orders until additional funds were cleared and transferred. This 
was also later applied to sell orders.
The enhanced funding requirements were put in place by the regulator to ensure 
market stability as for settlement purposes, the broker had to have sufficient equity in 
place to support the trade. 
And this volatility could impact on a brokers equity for all markets it was trading in 
and not just those shares. 
As trading 212s execution intermediary couldnt process orders because of the 
increased volatility, this meant it wasnt allowing Trading 212 to trade either. There 
was little Trading 212 could do about it and it was outside of its control. 
Trading 212 didnt have direct access to the market which meant it was reliant on a 
third party to execute trades on its behalf and it had an agreement with one execution 
intermediary. 
It would be unrealistic to expect Trading 212 to reach agreement with a different 
execution intermediary during this short period of time when such restrictions were in 
place. And as it was a worldwide issue, its unlikely trades could have been 
completed via a different execution intermediary in any event. 
It was Trading 212s commercial decision about what intermediary broker or broker it 
chose to use.
The investigator appreciated Mr Bs frustration at his inability to sell the shareholding at a price he wanted, but he didnt think Trading 212 hadnt abided by its regulatory 
requirements or done anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said;
There were several brokers that continued to allow trading during this volatile period. 
It wasnt acceptable that Trading 212 was insufficiently prepared when its 
competitors were. 
He referred to the regulators handbook  COBS 11.2A regarding best execution. 
Trading 212s own terms couldnt contradict the FCA handbook. As other brokers 
were able to execute trades Trading 212 did not implement effective arrangements 
nor take sufficient steps to execute my trades.
He referred to another company that was suing its platform for failing to execute 
orders after a sharp rise in its share price.
Mr B calculated that he had lost over £8,000 because he was unable to sell his 
shares on the date he wanted. 
He questioned whether he should be making the complaint against Trading 212s 
execution intermediary.
Mr Bs comments didnt cause the investigator to change his opinion; 
With reference to Mr B not being allowed to make an in-specie transfer of his 
shareholding of GME, that was in line with its terms and conditions. 
He couldnt comment on what other brokers had done. Issues that affect one broker 
dont necessarily affect a different broker in the same way. 
He also referred to COBS 11.2 and concluded that Trading 212 had taken sufficient 
steps under its contractual obligation. He quoted a statement issued by the UK 
regulator on 29 January 2021 about broking firms not being obliged to offer trading 
facilities to clients. 
Trading 212 had a responsibility to ensure a stable market and comply with 
regulatory bodies. Trading 212 had no control over, or responsibility for, the market 
volatility that led the situation. 
He couldnt comment on any other legal cases. 
It wouldnt be fair for him to conclude the loss Mr B was claiming was solely or mostly 
down to acts or omissions of Trading 212.
Unless Mr B was a client of the execution intermediary, he couldnt bring a complaint 
about it to the Financial Ombudsman.
Mr B didnt agree and requested that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information and evidence that I have 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for broadly the same reasons. 
Based on the evidence Im unable to agree with Mr B that Trading 212 acted unreasonably. Im satisfied that it behaved fairly and in accordance with its own terms and conditions and in 
line with the regulators statement issued at the time. 
And after consideration, Im satisfied that Trading 212 acted fairly and reasonably in taking 
the action that it did in response to unprecedented circumstances during which the regulator 
issued a statement noting that firms were exposed to greater risk during such abnormal 
market conditions and werent obliged to offer trading facilities if it thought it necessary or 
prudent to do so and in line with its terms.  I say this rather than concluding that Trading 212 
took a course of action that was more convenient for it, or to its own advantage, it was 
permitted to do so in line with its terms and conditions. And I dont find that it was complicit in 
the manipulation of the value of the stock. Ill explain why.
As a background to the events, during January 2021, and 27/28 January in particular, the 
stock market was extremely volatile in certain stocks including GME. There had been 
considerable and unprecedented interest generated in the shares caused by social media 
platforms and, as I understand it, as share prices increased, short sellers had to close their 
positions in order to prevent bigger losses  a so-called short squeeze. Overall, Im satisfied 
that these were market conditions that were outside of Trading 212s control. 
As such, Ive reviewed Trading 212s share dealing service  terms of business to consider 
how Trading 212 can act when matters are outside of its control. Below are what I consider 
to be relevant to this complaint, but not limited to;
Clause 5.4. We shall not accept Instruction to Deal when: the relevant market is 
closed for trading; or you do not have enough money in your account to execute the 
Transaction; or there are events described as Force Majeure in Clause 25.
Clause 5.12. We shall have the right to introduce new Financial instruments and 
Market Hours for trading at the Trading Platform and to suspend and/ or remove from 
the Trading Platform any Financial instrument and Market Hours at our sole 
discretion.
Clause 6.4. You hereby agree and acknowledge that in the event of downtime of the 
Trading Platform You shall waive any claims against Trading 212 of missed profits 
and/or claims that You would have executed an order on a specific price during the 
downtime. You acknowledge that sometimes there may be technical issues or faults 
with the Trading Platform.
Clause 25.1. Whilst we endeavour to comply with our obligations in a timely manner, 
we shall incur no liability whatsoever for any partial or full default of our obligations by 
reason of any cause or event beyond our reasonable control, including but not limited 
to any communications, systems or computer failure, market default, suspension, 
failure or closure, or the imposition or change (including a change of interpretation) of 
any law or governmental or regulatory requirement and we shall not be held liable for 
any loss you may incur as a result..
Clause 25.2. Force Majeure shall include any of the following: the suspension or 
failure of any financial instrument, whether underlying or not, the suspension or 
closure of any markets, exchanges, the nationalisation and/or government 
sequestration, the failure of any of our suppliers, and if applicable our intermediate 
broker, agent or principal, dealer or any custodian, sub-custodian, clearing house or 
regulatory or self-regulatory organisation, for any reason, to perform its obligations. 
Whereas in any such event we will try to take reasonable steps to mitigate the effect 
of the said event in order to continue our operations and to continue to provide you 
with services and where we may therefore alter some of the (trading) terms and 
conditions as per this agreement.Having reviewed those terms, I dont find that the action taken by Trading 212 was outside of 
those terms and conditions. And Mr B agreed to those terms at the outset of his relationship 
with Trading 212. 
In response to stock market turbulence, on 29 January 2021 the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a statement which said;
Broking firms are not obliged to offer trading facilities to clients. They might withdraw 
their services, in line with customer terms and conditions if, for instance, they 
consider it necessary or prudent to do so. Firms are exposed to greater risk and 
therefore more likely to need to take such actions during the periods of abnormally 
high transaction volumes and price volatility.
We will of course take appropriate action wherever we see evidence of firms or 
individuals causing harm to consumers or markets.
And while it could be considered that Trading 212 was being prudent in not offering the 
GME shares for trading on its platform, I think in reality the cause was because its execution 
intermediary restricted its access to the shares, albeit the outcome being the same as 
referenced in the regulators statement  about being prudent  and in line with its own terms 
of business. 
Mr B referred to the Conduct of Business Rules  COBS 11.2A Best execution and he 
concluded that Trading 212 didnt establish and implement effective arrangements for 
complying with the obligation to take all sufficient steps to obtain the best possible results for 
its clients Ive considered whether Trading 212 did take all sufficient steps during this 
time and my conclusion is that it did. 
I say this because the unique, unprecedented interest and market activity in GME  and 
similar affected stocks  caused an extreme strain on the entire trade execution ecosystem 
worldwide and affected almost every trading platform. 27/28 January 2021 saw the most 
trading volume ever in the history of GME so overall, I dont think its unreasonable to 
conclude that these were not normal market conditions. 
Bearing this in mind, Trading 212 used the services of an execution intermediary and was 
reliant on that service in order for it to trade. It didnt have direct access to the market. And it 
was the execution intermediary that wouldnt allow trading in GME (and other stocks that had 
been subject to extreme volatility) until its own capital adequacy and other issues were 
resolved. Additional collateral was required by the US clearing houses in order to ensure 
firms had sufficient liquidity to settle trades which took place two days after the actual trade 
date. 
This requirement tallies with Trading 212s comment that the outsized trading volumes in the 
shares generated substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades. Trading 212 
has given us a copy of its conversation trail with its execution intermediary which makes 
clear it repeatedly made contact to try and resolve the issue after it was made aware there 
was a problem. And I am satisfied this is an example of Trading 212 taking reasonable 
steps to execute trades and in my opinion, is consistent with its contractual obligation under 
the force majeure clause and to take reasonable steps to mitigate the impact. 
I am satisfied that such market conditions were so unusual it satisfied the force majeure 
clause (25) and therefore Trading 212 wasnt obliged to accept a deal instruction under 
clause 5.4. In any event Trading 212 was simply unable to trade in those shares on its 
platform but I am satisfied that Trading 212 being unable to trade, or not accepting a deal 
instruction under such circumstances, was not outside of its terms and conditions. Mr B has referred to other brokers still being able to trade during this time and that Trading 
212 was insufficiently prepared. I cant know the reasons that other brokers were able to 
trade and Trading 212 did not, so I cant comment on the actions of other brokers in my 
consideration of this complaint against Trading 212. I can only consider the actions of 
Trading 212. 
Trading 212 used the services of one execution intermediary, which I am satisfied it was 
entitled to do as its own commercial decision. And bearing in mind the market turmoil on the 
day, I think its unlikely Trading 212 could have engaged the services of a different 
intermediary or that a different intermediary would have been more successful in trading 
during this time than the intermediary it did use. 
And while I accept that Mr B wont be happy with the outcome. I am satisfied that his inability 
to trade in GME was outside of the control of Trading 212 who, in my opinion, had taken 
reasonable steps to execute the trades. The unprecedented volatility in the shares and the 
impact of that on trading was, in my view, one of the vagaries of stock market investment 
and is one of the risks that an investor takes when investing in the stock market. 
On balance, I am satisfied that Trading 212 did all that it reasonably could to mitigate the 
position but the situation was outside of its control and it probably had very little practical 
choice in the matter so I dont find that it is responsible for any losses Mr B says he incurred. 
Mr B also complained about his inability to transfer his shares to another broker in-specie. 
The investigator concluded that this was in line with Trading 212s terms and conditions. It 
didnt facilitate in-specie transfers and Mr B had acknowledged and agreed to this when he 
opened his account. I agree with the investigators comments and dont have anything 
further to add on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman