DRN-1886715
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way his mortgage application to Lloyds Bank PLC was handled.
What happened
Mr P applied for a mortgage with Lloyds. A valuation of the property was instructed and 
carried out. The valuer noted that Mr P had a separate property adjacent to his which was 
rented out. This property was on the same title deed as the property he wanted to secure the 
mortgage on. Because of this Lloyds declined his application as this didnt meet its lending 
criteria.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and complained to Lloyds saying he had made the mortgage 
advisor aware of the separate property and told him it was rented out. Lloyds didnt uphold 
his complaint, so Mr P referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think that Lloyds wouldve been 
aware that the rented property was on the same property title as the house Mr P wanted to 
mortgage until after a physical valuation had taken place. So, he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he made it clear to Lloyds mortgage advisor that the property that 
was rented out formed a part of the overall property and the mortgage advisor shouldve 
known this wouldnt be acceptable to Lloyds. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Until a property has had a surveyor inspect it and provide a report, there is always a risk that 
the mortgage application might be declined by the lender. However, Mr P is saying that he 
gave Lloyds enough information from the start that shouldve alerted it to the fact that his 
application wouldnt meet its lending criteria.
Obviously, I cant know what was said within the meetings Mr P and Lloyds had prior to the 
application being submitted. In situations where I dont know for sure what has happened, I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely 
to have happened given the evidence I do have. 
Ive noted that in his initial letter of complaint to Lloyds, Mr P says he made it aware that the 
adjacent property was tenanted. I dont think this is the same as specifically telling Lloyds 
that part of the land which he was asking Lloyds to lend on and use as security had a 
separate dwelling with a tenant in it. I think it would be fair for the mortgage advisor to infer 
from the use of the phrase adjacent that it was a separate property with a separate title 
deed. Had Mr P been clear that it was on the same title, I think the mortgage advisor 
wouldve known that this wouldnt be acceptable to Lloyds as this is unusual and wouldnt 
have been within standard lending criteria. Based on this, Im not persuaded that Mr P 
offered enough information to Lloyds that it shouldve known from the outset that the 
application wouldnt fit its lending criteria.
There is always a risk that something will become apparent during a mortgage application 
which wasnt obvious or known at the start. Whilst this unfortunately did mean that Mr Ps 
application was declined, Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to do so. And I dont think it had 
enough information to be able to tell Mr P any sooner than it did that his application wouldnt 
be successful. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman