DRN-3896932
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited wouldnt allow her access to a 
new fixed interest rate, and that it forced her into financial difficulties as a result. Shes also 
concerned that it failed to account for payments she had made. 
What happened
Mrs O had a mortgage with Kensington, which she took out in 2004. The mortgage offer said 
that the applicable interest rate was the Kensington Variable Rate (KVR) plus 3%, with a 
discount of 2% until May 2005. After the end of the discount period, the mortgage would 
remain on the KVR plus 3%.
In 2015, Mrs O wrote to Kensington saying that she was unhappy with the interest rate shed 
been charged. By this time the interest rate on her mortgage was 6.5%. She said it was 
exorbitant compared to the rates offered by other lenders and that she would have 
expected Kensington to help her find a better rate  and to help her convert the mortgage to 
repayment terms. She said that she had tried to move to other lenders without success and 
that had the rate been lower she could have paid the mortgage off more quickly. She said 
she felt left with no choice but to sell her house to get out of the mortgage. Mrs O paid the 
mortgage off in February 2016 and moved to rented accommodation with her family.
In September 2018, Kensington wrote to Mrs O explaining that it had reviewed things and 
found a payment, amounting to just over £1,000, which it had received but not allocated to 
her mortgage account. It said it had now re-worked her mortgage to reduce interest which 
had been charged on the basis the payment hadnt been made when it had. It also removed 
arrears charges.
As Mrs O had by then redeemed her mortgage, Kensington refunded the unallocated 
payments and associated interest and fees directly to her, plus 8% simple interest. The total 
refund amounted to just over £6,000.
Mrs O brought her complaint to us. The case was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She 
said that she thought Kensington had calculated the refund correctly. But she said that had 
the payment been applied correctly at the time, the arrears would have been reduced to the 
extent its likely Kensington would not have needed to send a field agent to visit Mrs O, and 
wouldnt have taken legal action when it did. She said it should refund a further £879.29 to 
cover the fees it charged for this, along with 8% simple interest. And it should pay Mrs O 
£750 compensation to recognise the stress and upset caused by the unnecessary legal 
action.
Kensington accepted that. But Mrs O didnt, and she also wanted us to look again at the 
interest rate issue. As by then the adjudicator had left the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
the case was allocated to one of our investigators for a further review.
The investigator said that had the account been managed correctly, with payments made 
being allocated to the loan as they should have been, Mrs O would have been out of arrears 
by August 2010. She said that Kensington should have allowed her access to a new interest 
rate from then on, and said that it should rework the mortgage as if it had done so, and 
refund the resulting overpayments to Mrs O. And she said Kensington should increase the 
compensation to £1,500 in recognition of the years Mrs O struggled with her mortgage 
payments and the impact that had on her.
Kensington did not agree with this recommendation. And Mrs O didnt think compensation of 
£1,500 was sufficient. As no agreement could be reached, the case came to me for a 
decision to be made on how to resolve this complaint.
My provisional decision
After careful consideration, I reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my thoughts. I said:
The Financial Ombudsman Service has previously dealt with complaints from Mrs O 
about the interest rate on her mortgage in 2010 and 2016. However, at that time the 
issue with the unallocated payments wasnt known and therefore those outcomes 
were reached based on an incorrect understanding of what the history of the 
mortgage account and in particular the arrears ought to have been.
Im therefore satisfied that there is material new evidence which has become 
available since we looked at the previous complaints, and that its therefore 
appropriate for us to look at matters again despite those previous cases.
Im satisfied that the redress Kensington paid in 2018 dealt with the impact of the 
unallocated payment. Kensington refunded both the payment and the interest 
charged caused by it being missed, as Id expect. And it refunded some arrears fees 
charged as a consequence.
Following the involvement of our adjudicator, it also agreed to refund the legal fees 
and field agents fees. Again, Im satisfied thats fair, since if the payment had been 
credited at the time, in 2005, the arrears on the mortgage would have been lower and 
its less likely that action would have been needed. And I note Kensington has 
agreed to this refund.
Mrs O says the impact of this was severe on her and her family. She says the stress 
of dealing with the mortgage and in particular the legal proceedings had serious 
repercussions for her health in particular  I wont go into detail since final decisions 
are published, but Ive taken full account of what she says. Mrs O also says that 
there were serious financial consequences too, in that because of the possession 
order Kensington obtained she was unable to move the mortgage to another lender 
to get a lower interest rate, which meant she had to pay more and which lengthened 
her financial difficulties. And this has contributed to her having to live in unsuitable 
rented accommodation with her family.
Ive thought very carefully about this. Im very sorry to hear of the health difficulties 
Mrs O faced at the time. But Ive not seen any medical evidence. The issues she 
talks about can have many causes, and on the evidence available its not possible for 
me to say that they were directly caused by the failure of Kensington to allocate the 
payment properly, or that they wouldnt have happened but for this mistake. I dont 
therefore think I can fairly hold Kensington responsible for this.
On the financial impact, I do think its less likely possession proceedings would have 
been justified had the payment been recorded correctly, and Kensington has now 
agreed to refund the legal fees charged as a result. But even had the payment been recorded correctly, and the legal proceedings had never happened, the mortgage 
would still have been in arrears  albeit by not as much.
Even with the missed payment allocated, the mortgage would have been in arrears 
continually until Kensington agreed to capitalise the arrears in 2008. And so Mrs O 
would still not have been able to move the mortgage to another lender, since its very 
unlikely another mortgage lender would have been willing to offer a mortgage while 
her existing mortgage was still in, or had recently been in, arrears. I dont agree with 
Mrs O that but for the possession order she would have been able to re-mortgage  
the ongoing arrears would also have been likely to be a barrier. Therefore I dont 
think the mis-allocated payment and possession order was the reason Mrs O was 
unable to move to another lender, and so I cant hold Kensington responsible for Mrs 
O not being able to do so.
Once the arrears were capitalised in 2008, Mrs O stayed out of arrears for some 
time, though arrears began to build up again in early 2010. The arrears were cleared 
in August 2010, and thereafter Mrs O stayed out of arrears until 2016, when the 
mortgage was repaid. During this time she did miss a few monthly payments, but as 
these were at times when the mortgage was in credit she never fell behind overall.
However, after 2010 it would still have been difficult for Mrs O to move her mortgage 
elsewhere  even with the corrected arrears position had the missing payment been 
allocated to the mortgage. By this point, following the global financial crisis, the sub-
prime market and availability of the sorts of mortgages aimed at borrowers with a 
history of financial difficulty had largely dried up. And so there would have been little 
available on the market to Mrs O.
Taking all that into account, therefore, Im satisfied that had Kensington applied the 
missed payment correctly, Mrs Os mortgage would still have been in arrears, albeit 
to a lesser extent. And while possession proceedings might not have been 
necessary, it would still have been very difficult if not impossible for her to move the 
mortgage to another lender.
So its fair that Kensington compensates her for the upset and difficulties the missed 
payment caused, including the impact of unnecessary possession proceedings. But 
that impact does not extend to compensating her for being unable to re-mortgage 
elsewhere, since its likely she would still not have been able to do that. And it 
doesnt extend to compensating her for the particular health difficulties she faced 
either, since Im not persuaded they were caused by Kensingtons failures. 
Nevertheless, having to go through possession proceedings, particularly at what was 
already a difficult time, would have been very upsetting and stressful. I agree that 
£750 compensation is fair for this part of the complaint.
Ive then thought about the interest rate part of the complaint. Our investigator said 
that Kensington should have made a new interest rate available to Mrs O once she 
was out of arrears, from August 2010. This would have reduced her monthly 
payments, and so the additional amounts should be refunded to her.
I do recognise that its a common feature of the mortgage market that at the end of 
an initial preferential rate (or later) a borrower will shop around for a new rate, either 
with their existing lender or a new lender. Ive explained why I dont think it would 
ever have been likely that Mrs O could have moved to a new lender given the arrears 
history. So that only leaves taking a new rate with her existing lender, Kensington.
Theres no obligation, either in the mortgage terms and conditions or in mortgage regulation, for Kensington to offer new interest rates to existing customers. When Mrs 
Os mortgage reverted to the variable rate plus 3%, at the end of the initial discount 
period, it was operating as it was supposed to and as the mortgage offer said it 
would.
Kensington has explained that it didnt offer Mrs O a new interest rate because her 
mortgage had been securitised  which means that the beneficial interest in it had 
been sold to investors as part of a package of loans, enabling Kensington to raise 
funds to finance further lending. Once securitised, it could not make changes to the 
mortgage because of its agreement with the securitisation vehicle.
Securitisation is a legitimate business model, and not uncommon in the mortgage 
industry. Theres nothing inherently wrong with Kensington managing its mortgage 
book in this way. So Ive gone on to think about whether doing so resulted in 
unfairness in Mrs Os particular circumstances.
Theres a provision in the rules of mortgage regulation which says that where a 
borrower is unable to move their mortgage to another lender, it might be unfair for 
their existing lender to treat them less favourably  for example, by offering less 
favourable interest rates  than it would treat other borrowers with similar 
characteristics.
Strictly speaking, that doesnt apply in Mrs Os case. Mortgage regulation was 
introduced in October 2004. As her mortgage was taken out in April 2004, its not a 
regulated mortgage and so the rules of mortgage regulation dont apply. However, 
despite that Ive taken into account the provision Ive mentioned because even 
though this is an unregulated mortgage I think it nevertheless represents good 
industry practice for the fair treatment of borrowers unable to move elsewhere, and is 
therefore a relevant consideration.
However, even taking that into account I dont think I can safely find that Kensington 
has treated Mrs O unfairly. The crucial part of the provision is that borrowers unable 
to move elsewhere  such as Mrs O  shouldnt be treated less favourably than other 
borrowers with similar characteristics.
In other words, if Kensington offered new interest rates to some existing borrowers 
who were similar to Mrs O, but not to Mrs O, that might be unfair.
However, thats not what happened. Kensington didnt offer new interest rates to any 
existing borrower until 2017  after Mrs O had redeemed her mortgage. And 
therefore in not offering one to her, it was not treating her less favourably than other 
similar customers. All other customers were in the same position. It follows that even 
if  as a matter of good industry practice rather than regulation  I apply the provision 
Ive referred to in this case, Mrs O was not treated unfairly in comparison to other 
customers of Kensington.
Ive said that there was no obligation on Kensington to offer existing customers new 
rates, and that its not unfair that it chose not to do so. And since that applied to all 
customers, Mrs O was not being treated less favourably than others because she 
couldnt shop around. It follows that I cant uphold this part of Mrs Os complaint.
The response to my provisional decision
Kensington accepted my provisional decision. But Mrs O didnt agree. She said:Its not right that it took Kensington so long to identify the issue with the unallocated 
payment;
As a result, it claimed Mrs O was in arrears that never in fact existed;
The court hearing was particularly difficult as Mrs O was about to give birth at the 
time, so her husband had to attend on her behalf. The level of compensation I 
proposed is not acceptable;
Mrs O has repeatedly complained about the high interest rate throughout the term. 
Because of this, Mrs O believes she was a mortgage prisoner and the unfairly high 
payments had a significant impact on her family and the lifestyle she was able to 
offer her children  and ended up with them having to sell their home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs O has suffered a recent bereavement and I hope shell accept my 
condolences. Im grateful that she was nevertheless able to respond to my provisional 
decision and Id like to assure her that Ive taken everything shes said into account.
I agree its most unfortunate that Kensington didnt identify the payment at the time, and that 
it only came to light many years later. Mrs O is compensated for this by the interest included 
in the refund  which covers all the years the payment remained unallocated. But 
nonetheless it shouldnt have happened in the first place. And, having happened, it should 
have been put right much sooner.
However, Im afraid I dont agree that this was the only reason Kensington treated Mrs O as 
being in arrears. The missed payment was in March 2005. Kensington capitalised the 
arrears (including what was then thought to be the missed payment) in 2008. So at that 
point, the mortgage was up to date. But Mrs O went on to miss payments several times in 
the years after that  including in February May, July, October and December 2009; 
November 2012; June 2013 and August 2014 .
And had the March 2005 payment been credited to the account, Mrs O would still have been 
in arrears before the 2008 capitalisation too. There were other months where she had 
missed payments, or not made payment in full. However, with this payment taken into 
account, Mrs O would never have been more than three months in arrears at any one time  
and therefore, had it been taken into account at the time, I dont think it would have been fair 
for Kensington to take possession proceedings. Thats why I said in my provisional decision 
that it should refund the associated legal costs.
Ive taken into account what Mrs O has said about the great difficulties court proceedings at 
that time caused her. And my proposed award of compensation  which is a substantial 
award based on the guidelines available on our website  reflects that.
I appreciate Mrs O feels that the interest rate on her mortgage was unfairly high. But, as I 
explained, the mortgage operated in line with the terms and conditions at the interest rate set 
out in the offer. Kensington did not offer new fixed rates to its customers and was not obliged 
to. It did not offer new rates to any customers until 2017, by which time Mrs O had paid back 
her mortgage. And so she was not treated any less favourably than any other Kensington 
customer at the time. In those circumstances, I dont think I can fairly uphold a complaint that 
it should have offered her a new rate.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, in part, and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to:
Refund £879.29 in legal fees and field agent fees, together with all interest charged 
on those fees during the life of the mortgage. Kensington should then add simple 
annual interest of 8%* on the total of the fees plus mortgage interest, running from 
the date the mortgage was redeemed to the date of refund:
Pay Mrs O £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
unnecessary possession proceedings and related matters.
This is in addition to the redress offered for the unallocated payment.  
* Kensington may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, as required by 
HMRC. But it should tell Mrs O what it has deducted so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if she is 
entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman