DRN-3977969
The complaint
Mr L complains that Finance Shop Ltd trading as Finance Shop provided a poor service after 
he made a request for information.
What happened
Mr L has a pension for which he gets advice from Finance Shop. He first contacted Finance 
Shop to tell it he wanted to take his 25% Tax-Free Cash (TFC) lump sum on 25 February 
2022. In that email, he asked Finance Shop to give him full details of the relevant costs 
involved in doing this, and: the costs involved in subsequent pension payments and fund 
management. On 12 March 2022, Finance Shop wrote to Mr L to suggest a discussion. 
On 1 April 2022, Mr L wrote to Finance Shop to request a full/complete list of all the charges 
levied on all the aspects and options on his pension in respect of his wish to take the 25% 
TFC lump sum. 
Finance Shop replied to Mr L on 3 April 2022. It said it would be difficult to choose options 
and then tell him about charges until it had spoken with him. 
Mr L repeated his request for a full list of charges on 5 April 2022. He said there was no 
immediate rush to get things sorted.
On 13 April 2022, Finance Shop asked Mr L if he was asking for the current charges on the 
plan, and said that it could email these. But said that it couldnt give Mr L the full charges for 
the potential advice he might need until it knew what he was thinking of doing with his 
retirement pot after taking the TFC. It asked to book a call with him to discuss. And said that 
it could then confirm by email exactly what the charges would be before Mr L made his final 
decision. 
On 15 April 2022, Mr L told Finance Shop that he was pretty sure he had details of the 
pension plan charges. But said that he needed to know a complete list of what the various 
options open to him would cost. Finance Shop replied the same day to tell Mr L that as there 
were so many possible options, it couldnt forward potential charges until itd spoken to him. 
It again asked Mr L if he wanted it to arrange a call.
Mr L asked Finance Shop exactly how many options there were. Finance Shop said that 
clients chose to take their pensions in various formats. And said it wasnt clear why Mr L 
didnt want to have an initial discussion, which would be free of charge. It said that if he 
didnt want to have such a chat, it wasnt sure it could help him. 
I understand that Mr L spoke with Finance Shop on 17 April 2022. And that the same day, he 
sent an email to it to confirm his understanding of the discussion. This included the following 
relevant points:
As per my request you will advise if there are any charges pertaining if I decide to take a 
25% lump sum drawdown of my pension.
Also, would you be so kind as to forward a copy of the Finance Shop 'Guide to Fees' which 
was mentioned in my Planning Report, and was operative at that time.
Finance Shop emailed Mr L on 20 April 2022. It shared the guide to fees Mr L had 
requested. It said that there were a number of options for his remaining assets. And that was 
why it was difficult for it to be specific about fees until it had narrowed those options down. It 
listed several of those options. And noted that it would also need to consider Mr Ls tax 
position and any other savings he had. It said it would always ensure that Mr L knew exactly 
what charges would apply before he was required to agree on any recommended option.
Mr L replied the same day. He felt his request was clear. And that he wanted to see the 
various possible charges/fees relating to the options he had before he spoke with Finance 
Shop. 
Finance Shop replied to Mr Ls 17 April 2022 email on 23 April 2022. It said that the standard 
charge for taking its advice about crystallising his fund and releasing the TFC would be 4.5% 
of the value of the fund. It also attached the guide to fees Mr L had requested, and a 30-
page terms and conditions document which made further reference to charging.
Mr L replied to Finance Shop the same day. He wanted clarification on what it had meant by: 
For taking the advice from ourselves regarding crystallising your fund. And asked whether 
the 4.5% charge for taking the 25% TFC lump sum applied to just the TFC or to the total 
fund value. Finance Shop confirmed it would apply to the total fund value.
Mr L wrote to Finance Shop again on 21 May 2022. He asked for full details of charges 
under the 'Specialist' category listed in the Guide to Fees itd sent. He also asked for a full 
breakdown of the 4.5% fee. He also again asked it to clarify what it meant by For taking the 
advice from ourselves regarding crystallising your fund.
Finance Shop replied on 28 May 2022. It said that the Specialist section of the fee 
agreement covered clients who requested that their fees should be taken based on an hourly 
rate. It confirmed that its standard rate of 4.5% would be the normal charge for pension 
advice. It said this fee was set by its directors, and that it took into account the cost of 
operating the business and all costs that apply together with what it considered to be a fair 
reward for the work done. So it couldnt give Mr L a detailed breakdown. It repeated its point 
that it would clearly state what any charges would be before Mr L agreed to its 
recommendations. Finance Shop also provided a list of Benefit Crystallisation events, 
together with an explanation of why and how they are tested.
Mr L felt that his simple request, which was to take 25% of his pension, shouldve been easy 
to provide fees for. So he complained on 24 May 2022. He didnt understand how Finance 
Shop could complicate such a simple request and therefore fail to provide him with the 
fee/charges list he was asking for. And said he was no further forward in obtaining the list of 
fees he wanted. He said he didnt expect to receive a full list of fees from any third parties 
involved in any possible decision he might make, but he did expect a full list of all charges 
and fees that Finance Shop might levy. 
Mr L asked was provided with Finance Shops latest Client Agreement (dated January 2021) 
on 25 May 2022. This included a list of its fees and charges.
Finance Shop issued its final response to the complaint on 10 June 2022. It didnt think itd 
done anything wrong. It said that it had tried to arrange an appointment with Mr L, but that 
hed declined such contact before he knew exactly what charges might apply. It said that it 
worked on the basis that it advised and made recommendations after considering its clients 
circumstances. And that, as it had explained, Mr L simply saying that he wanted to take 25% TFC didnt allow it to state what the charges would be, given the many recommendations 
that could reasonably be made. 
Finance Shop also said that it had provided Mr L with a copy of its Client Agreement which 
pointed out its charging policy. It also said that while the Client Agreement would provide an 
indication of charges, it guaranteed to give all its clients an exact figure for anything it 
recommended before they signed its fee agreement.
Finance Shop said it wasnt possible to give a fee for every possible scenario before it had 
been able to advise a client, and that it needed to narrow down a clients requirements 
before giving details of specific charges. It said that Mr L hadnt been prepared to discuss 
any of this. And that it couldnt simply take an order from a client because it provided advice 
to its clients, and it gave reasons for that advice based on knowing its clients. So it wasnt 
possible to follow this process and provide this service if a client wouldnt engage with it.
Finance Shop disagreed with Mr L that it had failed to live up to Finance Shop Values and 
Treating Customers Fairly. It said that, as stated in the Client Agreement, both it and Mr L as 
its client had obligations that must be met before it could carry out its commitments to him. It 
referenced page 9 of that agreement which stated: 
Our advice will be based on the information that you give, so its important that you provide 
us with the information we request about your circumstances and objectives to allow us to 
provide you with suitable advice. If the information you provide is inaccurate, or if you limit 
the information provided, this could affect the suitability of the advice we give.
Finance Shop also said that although Mr L appeared to be unhappy with the timescales, hed 
stated in his emails that there was no rush.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service in November 2022. He said that the latest Client 
Agreement provided some figures for accessing a pension. And that hed also located a 
document: Guide to Fees in compiling his complaint. He said this was dated June 2015, 
and he thought hed received it around the same time hed been given a report dated 23 July 
2015. He said the same guide had been emailed to him on 24 April 2019. He felt this 
showed that Finance Shop had a guide to its fees at its disposal. Mr L said hed also 
requested a copy of the fees guide on 17 April 2019 in an email. And that this had been sent 
to him on 24 April 2019. He wanted to know why Finance Shop had been unable to provide 
the fee list hed requested this time. 
Mr L said hed only received the January 2021 updated version of the guide to fees on 25 
May 2022. And that it shouldve been provided at his first request on 1 April 2022.
Mr L said hed spoken to the FCA and had been told that Finance Shop was required to 
provide suitable information. He felt it had failed in its duty to provide the information hed 
requested. He said hed also spoken to another organisation which had told him that Finance 
Shop should provide both key facts and illustrations about typical scenarios regarding 
drawing a pension without the need for a phone consultation. Mr L felt that Finance Shop 
had said it couldnt do this. And that it was unacceptable for him to say what he might do and 
then be told the cost. 
Mr L also felt it was false for Finance Shop to have stated, in its final response letter, that he 
may be: looking for something that we do not offer. If you feel that you dont want to talk to 
our adviser and therefore receive advice and recommendations you may want to either 
change your advice firm or deal directly with a provider if you feel that you do not need 
advice. He said this was due to the following reasons: 
- Hed never stated he didnt want to speak to an adviser. He said he wanted to speak 
to an adviser after receiving a copy of the fees list.
- Hed never stated that he didnt want to receive advice and recommendations, nor 
that he didnt need advice. He said his only request, which was explicit and clear, 
was to see a fees list before speaking with an adviser.
Mr L said that to resolve his complaint, he wanted the value of his pension: to be transferred 
to be the maximum it reached between the dates of 25.2.22 and 25.5.22, OR AT A VALUE 
AT THE TIME THE TRANSFER TO ANOTHER PENSION SCHEME OF MY CHOICE IF 
THIS VALUE IS HIGHER, as the delay and prevarication has been both unacceptable and 
financially disadvantageous to me. He also felt he should be compensated for the 
inconvenience of dealing with this unacceptable situation.
Finance Shop decided to withdraw its services from Mr L with effect from 20 January 2023. 
Mr L felt this was because of his complaint. 
Our investigator issued his view on the complaint in February 2023. He didnt think it should 
be upheld. He didnt think Finance Shop had acted inappropriately or made any errors in its 
dealings with Mr L.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigator. He said he didnt have an infinite number of options. 
And that when Finance Shop had provided the current Client Agreement on 25 May 2022, it 
had contained specific and exact information detailing charges that Finance Shop would levy 
on all aspects of his pension. So he questioned why Finance Shop wouldnt forward this 
document at an early stage, as he said it clearly had the information he was looking for. He 
felt that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Finance Shops regulator, required advisers 
to disclose charges to consumers up front: using some form of price list or tariff. And that 
as Finance Shop had a price list/tariff, it was required by the FCA to disclose that to him up 
front, but it had made every effort to avoid this. 
Mr L also made the following points:  
- He didnt agree with our investigator that it wouldve been difficult to provide a fee list 
given the variety of options available. He said the January 2021 Client Agreement 
contained a comprehensive breakdown of fees and options with full explanations.
- He didnt agree with our investigator that it was unreasonable to expect an adviser to 
provide a full list of fees and charges for each available option a customer has with 
regards to taking their pension and the management of any remaining funds. He felt 
that Finance Shop was under an FCA obligation to provide a fees/charges list.
- Mr L also didnt agree with our investigator that a discussion was required before the 
fee list couldve been provided. He said that the potential fees had a bearing on what 
decisions he may have made about his pension. So he needed the fees/charges list 
before he spoke to Finance Shop. 
- He didnt agree with our investigator that the previous copy of the Client Agreement, 
that Mr L had said hed received in 2019, wouldve provided him with details on the 
various fees and charges that would have been levied by Finance Shop. He said the 
2019 copy was out of date. And that there were a significant number of differences 
between the June 2015 list and the far more comprehensive list/explanatory notes 
contained in the January 2021 Client Agreement. Our investigator considered Mr Ls points. He felt that Finance Shop hadnt withheld any 
information from Mr L, but had responded to the wording of his request. He said it appeared 
that Mr L had asked for a list of fees and charges on all the potential options available to him 
after taking his 25% TFC lump sum, not the fees applied by Finance Shop. He also said that 
Mr L had already got a previous Client Agreement, albeit out-of-date, that contained the 
information hed required. He still felt that Finance Shop hadnt acted unreasonably. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr L. 
Ill explain my reasons for it. 
Mr Ls position is that he made a clear and simple request to Finance Shop for information 
about charges, but that it failed to provide it in a timely fashion. He also said that he needed 
the requested information before he spoke to Finance Shop as it might impact his decision.
Mr L felt that his simple request, which was to take 25% of his pension, shouldve been easy 
to provide fees for. But Finance Shop said that it couldnt take this as an instruction without 
first understanding what Mr L wanted to do with his remaining funds. And that as there was 
such a wide range of options open to him, it couldnt provide him with a fee list without 
discussing his options with him first. 
Finance Shop said that it advises its clients and makes recommendation after considering 
their full circumstances. It said it issues its Client Agreement at the first meeting and at any 
subsequent advice meeting the most up-to-date version is issued and explained. It said that 
the 2015 Client Agreement it had initially given Mr L stated: We will advise and make a 
recommendation for you after we have assessed your needs. Our recommendation will be 
based on a comprehensive and fair analysis of the market. And that the Client Agreement 
also covered what a client will pay for its service and gives examples in percentages and 
monetary amounts based on those examples.
Finance Shop said the issue appeared to be that it couldnt offer Mr L what he wanted. This 
was because it couldnt provide him with fee information before it had discussed in more 
detail what he wanted to do. 
Finance Shop also said that at every fact finding meeting it would give its client examples of 
the fees. But the exact fee that would be applied would depend on the final application - if 
any - made by the client. But it said that before a client made an application it would always 
advise the exact charge that would apply.
Finance Shop felt that, despite its many attempts to explain the process, Mr L didnt want to 
engage with it and receive advice. And that the whole point of having a discussion with Mr L 
was to narrow his options so that it could give him a better indication of the charges that 
would apply. 
Ive carefully considered the documentary evidence and what both parties have told this 
service.
I understand Mr Ls frustration that Finance Shop didnt provide the fee list he wanted in a 
timely fashion. I can see that he thought his request to take 25% TFC was a simple one. But I dont agree that it shouldve provided the information Mr L initially requested in his February 
2022 email without first discussing his requirements with him. And I dont agree that the 
request was a simple one. I say this because Mr Ls 25 February 2022 said:
I would like to draw my 25% lump sum from my pension. Please could you get this 
organised for me please, and advise full details of the relevant costs involved in doing this, 
and the costs involved in subsequent pension payments/fund management.
In my view, this shows that he wanted information about the costs related to a 25% TFC 
withdrawal. However, such costs would depend on what Mr L decided to do with his 
remaining funds after hed taken the TFC. For example, he may have wanted to put them 
into drawdown, in which case he would need to decide how and where they would be 
invested. Or buy an annuity, in which case a provider would need to be chosen and the 
shape of the annuity would need to be decided. As Finance Shop noted in its 20 April 2022 
email to Mr L, there were a number of options, with corresponding complexities. And it would 
also need to take into account Mr Ls tax position and any other savings he had before being 
able to advise him on his best option. I agree with Finance Shop that, given the number of 
options and the complexities involved with each of them, it would be practically impossible to 
provide Mr L with the information hed requested without talking to him first, so that it could 
narrow down his requirements. 
I agree with Mr L that it would be unreasonable for Finance Shop to expect him to choose an 
option without first understanding the costs involved. But Im satisfied that Finance Shop 
confirmed to Mr L that it would always ensure that he knew exactly what charges would 
apply before he was required to agree on any recommended option. Therefore I cant fairly 
say that Finance Shop acted inappropriately when it didnt provide the information Mr L 
requested before he spoke with it, even though thats what he asked for.
I acknowledge that Mr L did request: a full/complete list of all the charges levied on all the 
aspects and options on my pension on 1 April 2022. But he did also state on 5 April 2022 
that he was in no immediate rush to get things sorted. From what Ive seen, Finance Shop 
asked for clarification on what exactly Mr L wanted on 13 April 2022, when it asked him if he 
wanted the current charges on the plan, which it said it could email. It confirmed in this email 
that it couldnt give Mr L the likely charges for his potential 25% TFC withdrawal until it had 
more information about what he intended to do. And suggested booking an appointment to 
go through his options with him. It also said it would follow up such a discussion by email so 
that Mr L knew exactly what the charges were before he made a definitive decision. 
But I can see that on 15 April 2022, Mr L told Finance Shop that he already had details of the 
pension plan charges. He repeated his request for the likely cost of his pension options, but 
Im satisfied that Finance Shop had already clearly explained why it couldnt provide those 
without talking to him first.
Im satisfied that if Mr L hadnt told Finance Shop hed already got details of the pension plan 
charges, Finance Shop wouldve sent the January 2021 Client Agreement to him. I say this 
because the evidence Mr L has provided about his previous requests for such information 
shows that it had no issue with sending such information. 
I acknowledge Mr Ls point that the FCA requires advisers to disclose charges to consumers 
up front: using some form of price list or tariff. But from Mr Ls own testimony, Finance 
Shop had already done this in 2015 and in 2019. And hed also told it on 15 April 2022 that 
he already had details of the pension plan charges. So I cant fairly say that Finance Shop 
failed to meet this requirement. 
I acknowledge that Mr L said the January 2021 updated version of the guide to fees, which Mr L received on 25 May 2022, shouldve been provided when he first requested it. But I 
dont agree. I say this because Im not persuaded it was what he initially asked for. And Im 
satisfied that Mr L told Finance Shop that he already had details of the pension plan 
charges. Im also satisfied that Finance Shop provided a fair and reasonable explanation of 
why it couldnt provide the likely cost of Mr L accessing his 25% TFC until hed given it more 
information about what he wanted to do with the remaining funds. It wasnt going to charge 
Mr L for any discussion he had with it before it could firm up the likely fees he would be 
charged. 
Having considered everything, I dont think Finance Shop has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. Therefore I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman