The complaint
Mr T has complained about the decision by American International Group UK Limited (AIG)
to decline his claim under his personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T held a personal accident insurance policy with AIG. The policy would pay benefit if Mr T
were to suffer an accidental injury which resulted in fractures, permanent disability or death.
In September 2018, Mr T was admitted to hospital with a septic arthritis of the knee. He was
kept in hospital for nearly seven weeks. He made a claim to AIG for benefit under his policy.
AIG declined the claim. It didnt consider that Mr T had shown the problem with his knee had
been caused by an accident.
Mr T complained to AIG. He also said he now realised the sepsis had been caused after he
accidentally got a thorn stuck in his hand some two weeks before his hospital admission.
AIG agreed to seek further medical evidence. However, after doing so, it maintained its
position that there was no evidence that Mr T had suffered an accident.
Mr T was unhappy at AIGs decision. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy states:
If you have an accident on or after the effective date and before your insurance 
finishes, which results in you suffering a bodily injury which solely and independently 
of any other cause and within 12 months of the date of the accident, causes death, 
permanent disability or single or multiple fractures, we will pay the amount shown in 
the table of benefits
The policy defines an accident as follows:
A sudden, unexpected and specific event, external to the body, which occurs at an 
identifiable time and place whilst the policy is in force.
The policy defines bodily injury as follows:
An identifiable physical injury to an insured persons body which is caused directly 
and solely by an accident, is not intentionally self-inflicted and does not result from 
sickness or disease.
DRN-2361297Mr T was admitted to hospital with an infection, which is an illness, but he says this infection
originated from an accidental bodily injury.
The onus is on Mr T to demonstrate he has a valid claim under the policy. He has submitted
evidence from his consultant and his GP but there is nothing in this to say that his infection
originated from an accidental bodily injury.
His GP referred to Mr T as having suffered a sudden unexpected and specific event which
occurred at an identifiable time and place but he is apparently talking here about Mr Ts
development within 24 hours of a swollen, painful knee which led him to attend hospital. 
There is no suggestion by either Mr T or his GP that an accident had occurred during this 24
hour period.
His GP went on to state the mechanism is due to an infection caused by an external
pathological organism. I do not consider that this means Mr T had necessarily suffered an
accidental bodily injury. AIG has said that this type of infection can be caused by person to
person transmission and the GP letter doesnt say otherwise.
Mr T thinks his infection arose from when he cut his hand approximately two weeks before
being admitted to hospital. However, he is not medically qualified and this appears to be
mere speculation on his part. He has also speculated that it may have arisen from when he
knelt on gravel.
There is no evidence in the medical records to indicate that the infection arose from either of
the above incidents. AIG invited Mr T to get confirmation from his treating physicians as to
how the infection originated but he has been unable to obtain this.
In the absence of evidence to show that Mr T suffered an accidental bodily injury, and given
that he could have contracted the infection without suffering such an injury, I consider it was
reasonable for AIG to decline the claim.
I should point out to Mr T that, even if he were able to show he had suffered an accidental
bodily injury, he would still need to show that this (solely and independently of any other
cause) had led to him suffering a permanent disability within twelve months. And any
settlement under the policy would have to take account of the severity of that disability
compared to the permanent disabilities listed under the policy (for example, loss of use of a
leg).
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision.
Mr T didnt accept my provisional decision. He reiterated that in his opinion the infection had 
originated from an accidental injury. He maintained that he was entitled to the policys benefit 
for partial disability. He also said that AIG had refused to pay the £200 cost of a medical 
report from his consultant.
AIG didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has continued to suggest that the infection originated from an accidental injury. 
However, while Mr G might believe that this was the case, he has provided no further 
evidence to support this. As I said in my provisional decision, in the absence of evidence to show that Mr T suffered an accidental bodily injury, and given that he could have contracted 
the infection without suffering such an injury, I consider it was reasonable for AIG to decline 
the claim.
Mr T has made reference to the policys benefit for partial disability for which he thinks he is 
eligible. While Mr T, at the time of the claim, was needing a walking aid to get around, 
I havent seen evidence to show that this disability was permanent as is required to obtain 
benefit under the terms of the policy. However, this is immaterial in any case because, as 
outlined above, Mr T hasnt shown that any disability from which he may suffer was as a 
result of an accidental bodily injury. 
Mr T says that AIG refused to pay £200 for a medical report from his treating consultant. 
Mr T hasnt raised this point before and Im unsure what he means. It could be that he is 
saying hes paid for this report and AIG wont reimburse him, in which case he may need to 
raise this as a new complaint with AIG. Or, as I believe is the case, he is saying there is no 
such report because AIG wouldnt meet its cost. However, in this case I consider AIG has 
acted reasonably by refusing to pay for such a report because there is nothing to suggest 
that the report would be likely to make a difference to its decision to decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
David Poley
Ombudsman