DRN-2957554
The complaint
Mr M complains about the refurbishment charges he has been asked to pay by PSA Finance 
UK Limited (PSA) since he retuned a car he was financing through an agreement with 
them.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr M responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. The investigator has accurately set out the BVRLA 
standards that should have been applied when considering each area of damage. 
Mr M doesnt appear to be contesting the charges made by PSA for refurbishment to 
the C Post, quarter panel, wheels and bumper, but for completeness I have reviewed 
the photographs of that damage and would agree with the investigator that it is in 
excess of the BVRLA standard and it was reasonable for PSA to make charges.
Mr M disputes the charge for the missing service stamp. The service book wasnt 
stamped, and Ive not seen sufficient information to suggest Mr M provided evidence 
that the vehicle had been serviced at the point of collection/inspection. So, I dont 
think PSA were unreasonable when making a charge for the missing service as they 
would be likely to incur a reduced resale value at auction if the documentation wasnt 
available. 
Mr M says that there wasnt a parcel shelf in the car when it was supplied to him. 
This was a used car and I would expect PSA to have been able to provide proof the 
shelf was present as I think they could have referred to the original advertisement. As 
that proof hasnt been supplied I dont think it would be fair to levy a charge in this 
instance. PSA should remove it.
PSA have charged for a couple of areas where there was rust present. The BVRLA 
guidance is meant to be applied to new cars. I dont think its unreasonable to apply 
the guidance to used cars as long as the business takes into account the age of the 
vehicle when supplied and considers fair wear in tear on that basis. Ive thought 
about whether the rust is likely to be related to wear and tear. Ive looked at the 
manufacturers warranty that says it guarantees your vehicle against perforation 
(corrosion from the inside towards the outside of the bodywork) from the date of 
delivery shown on the ""Certificate of warranty"" for a duration of 12 years. So, I 
dont think there is evidence the corrosion shown on Mr Ms car was within 
acceptable standards of wear and tear.
Mr M has explained that the car has never been repaired and cant understand the 
charge for paint flaking that PSA have made. The evidence suggests there is flaking 
paint and thats outside of the BVRLA standard, so I dont think PSA have been 
unreasonable when making the charge that they have.
 
Putting things right
I think PSA should waive the charge to replace the parcel shelf, but I think the other charges 
have been made fairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell PSA Finance UK 
Limited to waive the charge they have made for the missing parcel shelf.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman