DRN-4172897
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about the price quoted by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
trading as More Th>n (RSA) to renew their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S received a quote to renew their policy but, after checking on a price 
comparison site, Mr S says he found the same policy with RSA for a lower premium. Mr S 
raised this with RSA and says they couldnt explain the difference. Mr S says he then 
allowed his policy to expire and then took out a new policy for around £130 cheaper than the 
renewal quote. Mr S complained and said this proves RSA hadnt given him a fair price as it 
went against rules introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
RSA responded and explained the price they offered was in line with the price they wouldve 
offered a new customer at the time. RSA said the quote Mr S recently obtained was based 
on the prices they were offering new customers on the date he completed the quote. RSA 
explained, given Mr S obtained the quote after the renewal quote was generated, its likely 
prices will differ as they regularly review their prices to react to changing market conditions.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S and Mr S. He thought RSA hadnt treated Mrs S 
and Mr S unfairly in relation to the pricing. Mrs S and Mr S disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs S and Mr S will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mrs S and Mr S paid £467.99 in 2022 but then received a quote for £572.28 in 
2023  this is just over £100 more. Mr S then searched on a comparison site and called RSA 
to say hed found a policy being offered by them for £482.10. RSA say they then offered their 
maximum discount which brought the renewal price down to £532.88. Mr S says the call 
handler then attempted to update Mr Ss online quote with the same details as the renewal, 
but there was still a significant difference. Mrs S and Mr S then bought a policy with RSA as 
a new customer for £443.61  this is just under £130 cheaper than the renewal quote. So, I 
do understand why Mrs S and Mr S are concerned.  
RSA have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how       
Mrs S and Mr Ss renewal price was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with them 
because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And Im satisfied the price 
they were quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that 
other RSA customers in Mrs S and Mr Ss position will have been charged a lower premium. 
Given that Mrs S and Mr S obtained a cheaper price from RSA as a new customer, I do 
understand why they believe they havent been treated fairly and in line with the new rules. 
The new rules for general insurance pricing which Mr S refers to were introduced by the FCA 
in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only and insurers need to 
make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The rules arent 
retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mrs S and Mr S were offered their renewal 
by RSA, so they did need to follow these at the time. 
It's clear there is a difference in price, with the renewal price being higher than the new 
business price. But I think its important to note here, there are a number of factors which 
have led to this and, having looked at those factors, I cant say its unreasonable for there to 
be a difference in price. Firstly, RSA have provided information which shows the new 
business price has been calculated on a different platform and pricing structure compared to 
the renewal and theyve explained how this works. As mentioned above, I cant share this 
with Mrs S and Mr S, but I hope theyre reassured that Ive looked at this and Im satisfied 
RSA havent made an error here. I think its important to again point out that the FCA 
understands that different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices 
and it accepts this is fair.
Ive also compared the renewal details with the new business details for the policy Mrs S and 
Mr S took out and the information on both policies isnt identical. The differences include the 
single item limit for high-risk items, cover for unspecified personal possessions and the value 
of listed specified items. RSA have provided information which shows how these factors 
were rated and how it affected the price. Taking all these factors into account, while the 
renewal price was higher than the new business price, I cant say RSA have acted against 
the FCA pricing rules and failed to provide Mrs S and Mr S with an ENBP. There is a price 
difference, but the two policies arent identical in either the sales channel or the risk ratings 
applied. Theres also a difference in the date the renewal quote was calculated and the new 
business quote  again, RSA have demonstrated how this made a difference to the price. 
I acknowledge Mr S spoke with RSA on the day he obtained the £482.10 quote on a price 
comparison site. And then, despite the call handler making adjustments to the renewal quote 
to match what Mrs S and Mr S could achieve as a new customer, there was still a difference 
in price. Mr S says the call handler explained to him the only way to achieve the lower price 
would be to allow his existing policy to end and then take out a new policy. I note Mr S 
questions how RSA are complying with the FCA rules when, on the same day he obtained a 
new business quote from them, RSA werent able to match the price on the renewal. I 
understand why Mr S is concerned, particularly as he says the call handler made amendments to the renewal quote to replicate the same cover showing on his new business 
quote. But, as mentioned above, the quotes were obtained using different platforms and, 
having seen how this impacts the price, I cant say RSA have acted unfairly. I note Mr S 
doesnt feel this is a relevant factor as his original policy with RSA was taken out online and 
through a price comparison site  which is the same channel through which he took out the 
new business policy. I acknowledge this but, while Mrs S and Mr S mightve taken out the 
original policy online, RSA have provided information which shows there was a difference in 
sales channel here and how this affected the price. And the renewal wasnt generated 
through this same platform  so there is a difference in the sales channel.  
The price difference between the renewal and the new business policy Mrs S and Mr S 
bought is just under £130. I note Mr S believes there is no legitimate reason to account for 
the difference. He accepts, while there might be some variation, he feels its unlikely the cost 
could fluctuate this much over a period of two weeks. I acknowledge Mr Ss concern here, 
but Ive seen how the renewal price was calculated  and I cant say RSA have made a 
mistake here or treated Mrs S and Mr S differently to other customers in the same 
circumstances. I have carefully considered Mr Ss points about how he feels pricing can be 
manipulated when calculating renewals in advance of the policy end date. I understand Mr S 
is worried about how such an approach can be used to bypass the FCA rules  but I havent 
seen any evidence thats the case here. 
I wish to reassure Mr S Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman