DRN-1430609
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) turned down a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy and has voided the policy.
What happened
Mr M was returning from holiday on 24 February 2019. He lost a rucksack while he was 
travelling home, which contained a number of items. He made a claim on his travel 
insurance policy the following day.
UKI asked Mr M to provide evidence to support his claim  including a loss report from the 
airline and proof of ownership of the things he was claiming for. Mr M sent in some 
information including receipts and photos. One of the photos was of the rucksack Mr M said 
was lost. UKI reviewed the information and it had some concerns. Thats because the 
metadata on the photograph of the rucksack (automatic information about when and where 
the photo was taken) showed the photo had been taken on 7 March 2019. This was after the 
date Mr M said the bag had been lost.
So UKI got in touch with Mr M to ask for some more information. It asked Mr M if the 
rucksack in the photo was the one hed lost. He confirmed it was. The call handler told Mr M 
about UKIs concerns about the date of the photo. He said that the photo had been taken 
before he went on holiday. Hed sent it to a colleague as a message back in February. But 
hed zoomed in on the image of the bag and edited it on the day he sent his supporting 
documents to UKI  which was 7 March 2019. 
Mr M told the call handler this had deleted the original image and that he couldnt find the 
message to his colleague. The call handler explained that Mr Ms type of phone wouldnt 
delete an original image if an edit or snip were made to it. She let Mr M know that UKI was 
concerned that if he hadnt lost the bag, he couldnt have lost the items in it. She told Mr M 
UKI thought hed breached the fraud condition in his policy. 
A couple of weeks later, UKI wrote to Mr M to explain that it considered hed breached the 
policy fraud condition. It told him it was cancelling his policy from the date he made the claim 
and that it was entitled to retain his premiums. 
Mr M was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He told us 
the bag in the photo wasnt the original rucksack hed lost  he didnt have that bag, because 
itd been lost. He said it was a similar rucksack hed taken a photo of on the day he sent in 
the evidence to UKI. He was unhappy because UKI had mentioned a ring in one of its letters 
and he hadnt claimed for a ring. He also complained because UKI had previously offered 
him compensation of £50 for the delay in handling his claim, which hadnt been paid.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had acted in 
line with its terms and conditions. And he thought itd been reasonable for UKI to conclude 
Mr M had breached the fraud condition. He explained that UKI had planned to pay Mr M £50 
for delays in paying his claim. But because itd invoked the fraud condition and cancelled the 
policy, itd withdrawn this offer. He also explained that UKIs mention of a ring in its letter had 
been a typo rather than showing it hadnt looked at the claim properly.
Mr M disagreed. He felt UKIs call handler had been rude and aggressive. He said the call 
had been confusing and he wasnt claiming for the rucksack anyway. He said hed been 
asked to provide an image of a similar bag, which hed done. He said at no point had he 
provided misinformation to UKI or acted fraudulently. He asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI has acted fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Im aware that Mr M is unhappy that since his policy was cancelled, hes received 
further policy renewal information from UKI. UKI says this was sent in error. Mr M hasnt 
complained to UKI about this point though, so I cant consider it here. Thats because UKI 
needs the chance to look into the issue before were potentially able to help with it. So my 
decision only focuses on whether UKI acted reasonably by cancelling Mr Ms policy.
Mr Ms policy contains some General Conditions that policyholders need to comply with. 
One of those says:
You must be honest and truthful in your dealings with us at all times. If you, any person 
insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to deceive us or 
knowingly makes a false claim, we have the right to cancel your policy, refuse claims and 
retain any premiums paidWe will not pay a claim which is in any way fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated.
UKI had concerns about the validity of Mr Ms claim, which Ive explained above. It was 
mainly concerned with how Mr M couldve taken a photo of a bag after hed made a claim for 
its loss and the things inside it. Ive carefully considered the evidence both parties have 
provided. I can see a report setting out the metadata which was automatically attached to 
Mr Ms photo when it was taken. This does show that the photo was taken on 7 March 2019, 
close to Mr Ms address. This was around 2 weeks after Mr M said the rucksack had been 
lost. So I can understand why UKI had concerns about whether the rucksack had been lost, 
meaning it had doubts about whether the other items couldve been lost too.
Mr M told us that the bag in the photo wasnt the rucksack hed lost. It was a similar one and 
he had taken the photo on 7 March 2019. But Ive listened to the call between UKI and Mr M 
when it let him know about its concerns. The call handler asked Mr M if the rucksack in the 
photo was the one hed lost. Mr M confirmed that yes, it was. When the call handler 
challenged Mr M about the metadata discrepancy, he told her that the photo had actually 
been taken a few weeks beforehand, before his holiday, and sent to a colleague. But that 
hed edited the photo for the purposes of the claim on the day hed sent in the evidence. So 
what Mr M told the call handler is quite different to what hes told us.
I dont think the call handler was rude and aggressive during the call and I think she asked 
Mr M clear questions about what had happened. I also think she gave Mr M a fair 
opportunity to clear up any concerns UKI had about the claim  by sending her a copy of the 
original photo or a copy of the message he said hed sent. Mr M said he didnt have the 
original  itd been wiped by editing the photo, although UKI disputes whether this is 
possible. And he didnt send UKI a copy of the text message.
In the round, given the available evidence, I think it was reasonable for UKI to have concerns 
about whether Mr Ms rucksack had been lost. Thats because the evidence seemed to indicate he was still in possession of it when he sent in proof of ownership for his claim to 
UKI. I dont think its concerns have been appropriately addressed by Mr M. 
Given those concerns, I think it was appropriate for UKI to rely on the fraud condition to void 
Mr Ms policy.
Ive also looked at the Insurance Act 2015 to check that UKIs policy is in line with the law. 
Im satisfied that the terms of this Act state that where a fraudulent claim has been made, an 
insurer can terminate the contract from the date of the fraudulent act. And it can keep the 
premiums that have been paid. So bearing this in mind, Ive decided UKI acted fairly by 
voiding the policy from the date Mr M made his claim. And that it was entitled to keep his 
premiums.
I appreciate UKIs letter referred to a claim for a ring. It seems to me that this was a simple 
typo when the claims handler was typing the letter though, as the rest of the letter refers to a 
bag. I dont think this is any indication that UKI didnt investigate the claim thoroughly. The 
evidence I have shows it carried out a detailed investigation.
Mr M is also unhappy because UKI didnt pay him compensation of £50 when itd originally 
offered to. It appears itd planned to offer Mr M compensation because of delays in reviewing 
his claim ahead of settling it. But when it decided the claim was fraudulent, this offer was 
withdrawn. While I dont doubt that this caused Mr M even more disappointment, I dont think 
this decision was unfair.
Overall, I dont think UKI has done anything wrong that it needs to put right. So Im not telling 
it to pay Mr M anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman