DRN-3826148
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B have complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled their 
claim under their home insurance policy following accidental damage to their iPad.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Aviva includes Avivas agents, suppliers and 
contractors in this decision letter.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B noticed a crack on the screen of their iPad but didnt know how this damage 
had occurred. They made an accidental damage claim on their policy in May 2022. Aviva 
appointed agents to assess the damage and they concluded that the damage could be 
repaired by replacing the screen pack. The replacement was completed however it was 
stated that, as the screen was locked and no passcode supplied, only limited testing could 
be completed, and the iPad was returned to Mrs and Mr B.
In June 2022, Mrs and Mr B notified Aviva that their iPad wasnt working properly and that 
the home button and new screen were faulty. It was returned to the agents for assessment. 
Mrs and Mr B said that after several phone calls, Aviva confirmed that it couldnt get the part 
and deemed the iPad to be beyond economic repair and issued them with store vouchers to 
the value of the iPad. Mrs and Mr B duly sourced a replacement item and said theyd had it 
confirmed by Aviva that it was the same size and specification, but it transpired that it wasnt. 
The original pencil and case accessories were not compatible with the replacement and Mrs 
and Mr B therefore wanted Aviva to cover the accessories costs of £180.
Aviva considered that the case and pencil were a consequential loss and not covered under 
the relevant policy and that if the damaged iPad was no longer manufactured, a replacement 
could only be provided on the basis of one currently available. Mrs and Mr B were unhappy 
with Avivas response and referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigators initial view was that Aviva hadnt acted unfairly in declining to cover the 
cost of accessories. He thought that Aviva was correct to say that there was no cover within 
the policy for the accessories. Following further investigation however, he was persuaded 
that Mrs and Mr B hadnt been treated in a fair and reasonable way and that Aviva should do 
more to rectify the situation. He concluded that Mrs and Mr B were informed by Aviva that 
settlement would be on a like for like for like basis. He also concluded that if it had been 
explained to them that the model would be different and hence their accessories 
incompatible, then they would have requested a cash settlement. Aviva didnt accept the 
investigators view and the matter has therefore been referred to me to make a final decision 
in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to determine is whether it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline 
to provide replacement accessories or to reimburse for replacement iPad accessories under 
the terms and conditions of the relevant policy. I dont think it was fair and reasonable for 
Aviva to decline to cover the cost.
Mrs and Mr B explained that they were told that Aviva would contact them for a password 
when required, but they werent contacted to provide it. When they returned the iPad for the 
second time, Aviva informed Mrs and Mr B that the part was no longer available and that a 
like for like replacement would be provided. They said that the vouchers were accepted on 
this basis. Mrs and Mr B said they could have got a like for like replacement for less than the 
cost of the vouchers but thought that Aviva took the most convenient option. If theyd been 
informed of the options, they said they would have taken a cash settlement and purchased 
the same iPad from another supplier. They felt theyd been treated unfairly and had borne 
the burden of the additional costs. They also considered that theyd received a poor service.
Aviva accepted that the repair had failed and had then deemed the item to be beyond 
economic repair. However, it said that it was Mrs B and Mrs B who selected the replacement 
iPad and neither it, nor its suppliers had selected it. It understood that Mrs and Mr B had 
purchased a newer model iPad, which was why the pen didnt work and the case didnt fit. 
Aviva said: The voucher is issued based on a like for like model replacement, but this 
doesnt mean insured has to purchase the same, it is a voucher so essentially they can 
purchase anything It referred to the policy booklet under the heading of How much we will 
pay in relevant circumstances and said it had the option of carrying out a repair through 
approved suppliers or making a cash payment. It said the policy cover only related to the 
damaged item itself and not to any accessories that didnt match the replacement device. It 
regarded this as consequential loss for which there was no cover.
Ive considered all the evidence and what both Mrs and Mr B and Aviva have said about the 
matter. Ill start by saying that the aim in settling a valid insurance claim is to place the 
policyholder in the position they would have been in prior to damage. Mrs and Mr B found 
themselves without accessories that matched the replacement iPad. Having said this, there 
appears to be some confusion as to whether the original iPad was still being manufactured 
or was still available. The notes on Avivas file indicate that the supplier believed that the 
same iPad remained available. This supports Mr and Mrs Bs comment that they would have 
been able to source the same make as the original iPad with a different supplier. This would 
have avoided any issue with compatibility with the pen and case. 
I consider that the confusion arose when Mrs and Mr B used the vouchers supplied by Aviva 
to buy a newer version of the iPad. Its for this reason that the original pen and case were no 
longer compatible. Aviva has stated that it had been Mrs and Mr Bs choice to use their 
vouchers to buy the newer version. This conflicts with what Mrs and Mr B have said. They 
said that when Aviva had called to say it would replace the iPad, it said they could get it from 
the relevant store with a voucher for a specific value. Mrs B said that she asked the Aviva 
agent whether it was the same size and specification which she confirmed it was. I have not 
been supplied with a telephone record to confirm this conversation, however Ive no reason 
to doubt Mrs Bs understanding of the position. As Mrs and Mr B discovered they could have 
obtained a like for like replacement at a cheaper cost, I consider that had they been offered 
the option of a cash settlement, then they would have taken this option.
On the balance of probabilities, I also conclude that Aviva had led Mrs and Mr B to believe 
that it had identified the correct replacement, as the vouchers offered were for a very specific 
sum, which presumably matched the cost of the replacement which Mrs and Mr B proceeded 
to buy. I appreciate that Mrs and Mr B could have gone ahead with the purchase of 
whichever model they chose, however on balance Im persuaded that they were led by 
Avivas assurances. Its notable from their complaint form to this service in July 2022 that 
Mrs and Mr B were still hoping that it wasnt too late to return the replacement iPad to the 
store and to buy one which matched the original from another supplier.Im therefore satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Mrs and Mr B thought that the 
vouchers represented the price of a compatible replacement from Avivas chosen store. Its 
unfortunate that a cash settlement wasnt offered to Mrs and Mr B as an option and it would 
then have been a matter for Mrs and Mr B to assure themselves that they purchased an iPad 
which remained compatible with their accessories
In conclusion, I dont consider that Aviva handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner 
in all respects. It could have provided more support and assistance in settlement of their 
claim to ensure that they were placed back in the position they were before the damage 
occurred. I therefore consider that a fair and reasonable outcome is for Aviva to reimburse 
the cost of a pen and case which is compatible with Mrs and Mrs Bs replacement iPad, 
which they have already explained would cost approximately £180.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint and require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to reimburse Mrs and Mr B for the cost of replacement iPad pen and case 
within 28 days of the their acceptance of this Final Decision, following provision of a formal 
receipt or invoice for these items.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 January 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman