DRN-4420910
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Modulr FS Limited closed his bank account and registered a CIFAS 
marker against him. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service.
Mr W held a U account   who provided services on behalf of Modulr. For ease I will refer to 
Modulr throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr W had a U account which he used to receive his work expenses . 
On 28 October 2021, a payment of £195 was made into Mr Ws account, which Mr W spent.
Following this, on 22 November 2021, Modulr were notified by another bank that their 
customer, who I will refer to as Ms H, had been the victim of a scam and that the £195 
payment Mr W had received in October 2021, was fraudulent. Ms H told her bank that she 
had bought an item from Mr W, waited ten days for delivery, but never received the item. 
And when she tried to contact Mr W her messages had been blocked. 
Modulr contacted Mr W via its in app chat facility and told him that the payment had been 
recalled by the sending bank. And that it was reviewing his account. Mr W told Modulr that 
he had sold a watch via his social media account. And that the buyer had notified him via 
text message that theyd received the watch. Mr W said that the watch was an unwanted gift 
hed received. He said he didnt have proof of posting the watch. He also said that hed 
dropped his mobile phone in water and had sent it off for repair, which meant he was without 
a mobile phone between 2 November and 1 December 2021. So, if the buyer had been 
trying to contact him, he wouldnt have received any messages. Mr W said hed ended up 
getting a new phone which meant he changed his mobile number. So, if the buyer had tried 
to contact him, they wouldnt have been able to do so.  Mr W said because he had to change 
his phone, he also wasnt able to provide the text message he received from the buyer. 
Mr W maintained he hadnt done anything wrong and that this was simply a buyer/seller 
dispute. 
Following this  Modulr closed Mr Ws account. It also placed a fraud marker against 
Mr Ws name with CIFAS. And suggested Mr W should contact the buyer to get the fraud 
claim withdrawn. Mr W found out about the marker in February 2022, via his employer who 
following a screening check,  interviewed him about why the marker had been applied to his 
name. Mr W told his employer that hed not done anything wrong and had simply sold a 
watch, which he did from time to time. He also explained the trouble hed had with his mobile 
phone. Mr W says his employer were happy with his explanation and took no further action.
Mr W complained to Modulr and said that the marker had been applied unfairly. He said he 
hadnt done anything wrong and that the marker should be removed. Modulr said theyd 
fairly loaded a CIFAS marker against him. And that Mr W needed to contact the buyer of the 
watch to get the fraud claim removed and confirm that this was a buyer/seller dispute as 
Mr W claimed. Unhappy with this response Mr W brought his complaint to this service where 
one of our investigators looked into things. 
The investigator asked Mr W some more questions regarding the payment made into his 
account, his interview with his employer and replacement of his mobile phone. Mr W 
provided the investigator with the interview notes between him and his employer, which 
showed they were happy with Mr Ws explanation. And his new mobile phone contract which 
showed Mr Ws mobile phone had been received for repair on 9 November 2021 and that 
hed got a new mobile phone on 2 December 2021.
Based on the evidence, the investigator said that Modulr hadnt treated Mr W fairly when it  
recorded a CIFAS marker against him. So, she said it should remove the marker.
Mr W accepted what the investigator had said. He also explained that the marker has meant 
he had to take out a mortgage at a higher rate, which has cost him more each month. And 
hes had other credit facilities frozen again due to the marker. Modulr didnt accept what the 
investigator had said and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide and I issued a 
provisional decision. 
Prior to issuing the provisional decision I asked the investigator to get some more 
information from Mr W. In particular I asked him to provide the advert that hed posted on his 
social media platform advertising the watch for sale, details about the method of posting he 
used, how he paid for the postage and evidence to show he did this, such as his bank 
statements. In response, Mr W said he would have sent the watch via Royal Mail and 
couldnt remember how he paid for the postage. But would look back over his bank 
statements. He didnt provide any other information.
Having reviewed everything, I said the following in my provisional decision:
Firstly, Modulr are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Modulr decided to review Mr Ws account when the £195 credit 
received into Mr Ws account was reported as fraudulent from another bank.  Im satisfied 
that they were entitled to carry out that review based on this information, and Im pleased to 
see that Mr W volunteered information about the transaction. 
Mr W provided what he believes to be sufficient evidence. Mr W explained that hed sold a 
watch which he received as a gift from a family member. He said hed posted the watch to 
the buyer, and theyd confirmed via text that theyd received it. He has also since supplied 
our service with evidence that hed sent his mobile  to be repaired and took out a new mobile 
phone contract, which he says is why the buyer was unable to contact him after the sale. 
And he hasnt been able to contact the buyer as he has no contact details for them. 
Mr W also says the problems he had with his mobile phone also means he no longer has the 
text message to show that the watch was received by the buyer.
When a business is a member of CIFAS it can record a marker against an individual 
customer when that customer has used their account fraudulently.  This type of marker will 
stay on record for six years and will usually make it difficult for a customer to take out new 
financial products as Mr W says he has encountered. In order to file such a marker Modulr 
arent required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr W is guilty of a fraud or financial 
crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than a mere suspicion or 
concern.
What this means in practice is that Modulr must first be able to show that there was an 
attempt to put fraudulent funds in Mr Ws account or fraudulent funds have entered Mr Ws 
account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. And were either moved on or retained. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show Mr W was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
So, I need to consider whether Modulr have sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof 
and load a marker for misuse of facility with CIFAS. Having looked at all the information 
provided Im currently satisfied they have.
I say this for the following reasons:
Ive seen evidence from Modulr that another bank notified them that the payment 
paid into Mr Ws account on 28 October 2021 was fraudulent. And that Mr W spent 
these funds
Mr W has explained that the watch he sold was a gift from a family member, that hed 
owned for about eighteen months prior to selling it. I havent seen any evidence of 
the watch itself, or how Mr W came to own it. I note too Mr W has said he sold the 
watch for a price lower than its value, but again Ive not seen any evidence of this, 
such as a valuation or an invoice, which is a normal occurrence in a sale of goods. 
Mr W explained he sold the watch after advertising it on a social media platform. 
Weve asked Mr W to provide copies of how the sale came about  such as an 
advert, and any messages he had with the buyer on the platform. Mr W has 
explained that he damaged his mobile phone so cant provide any contact he had 
with the buyer. Given Mr W said he sold the watch via a social media platform Id 
expect him still to be able to access his posts even if he has changed his phone. But 
he hasnt done so. I think this would be information Mr W ought to be able to provide. 
Mr W says he used Royal Mail to post the watch to the buyer. But he hasnt been 
able to provide any evidence to support this such as a receipt, how he paid for 
postage such as a bank statement. I find it surprising that a watch sold for £195 
wouldnt at least be sent via recorded delivery and that Mr W cant provide any 
evidence that he sent the watch to the buyer. The person who paid Mr W for the 
watch says it hadnt been received. So, I cant say that Mr W was as a result entitled 
to this money.
Modulr made Mr W aware that the payment had been recalled in November 2021. 
Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr W attempted to reach out to the buyer via his 
social media platform to resolve things at the time. If as Mr W suggests  this is a 
buyer seller dispute, he hasnt shown he has resolved it, or attempted to resolve it 
which would have been a reasonable action to take. 
I havent seen enough evidence that the sale, dispatch or delivery of the watch took 
place 
In summary, when I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Mr Ws version of events, 
and I havent seen enough evidence that the sale of a watch legitimately took place. For the 
reasons, Ive explained, Im currently minded that Modulr had grounds to believe that Mr W 
had received fraudulent funds which he spent. So, I think it was fair for Modulr to register the 
CIFAS marker and I wont be asking them to remove it. 
Modulr didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr W did. In summary he said:
He doesnt agree that the evidence was sufficient to show that he acted dishonestly 
or deliberately committed fraud for Modulr to record a CIFAS marker against himHe is being asked to provide evidence from some time ago that would involve him 
trawling through bank statements, when there is a high likelihood that he paid for 
postage with cash
He is not disputing that there may have been something wrong with the watch. But 
he is disputing that he took payment and didnt send the watch to the buyer
He has provided evidence from the time that shows he wouldnt have been able to 
communicate with the buyer due to problems with his phone
Modulr didnt followed process and didnt ask him for evidence until six months later
He hasnt done anything wrong and is being punished for an unfortunate set of 
circumstances
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr W has highlighted a number of concerns, which 
Ill now address below.
Mr W says Modulr didnt have enough evidence to record a marker and didnt carry out a 
proper investigation at the time. Hes said he is the victim of an unfortunate set of 
circumstances  which was caused by him having to change his mobile phone. Hes also 
said that due to the time that has now passed he no longer has any record of posting the 
watch.
Modulr made Mr W aware that the payment for the watch had been recalled in November 
2021. I appreciate that Mr W feels Modulr didnt allow him the opportunity to provide the 
evidence to show that he was entitled to the funds paid into his account. And I can see that 
he told Modulr that he didnt have any proof of postage and had problems with his mobile 
phone. But he has now had the opportunity to provide evidence to support his explanation.
Even if I accept Mr Ws explanation that changing mobile phones meant the buyer was 
unable to contact him, and he now thinks he may well have paid for postage by cash he still 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence that he actually sold a watch and sent it to the 
buyer. Given Mr W said he sold the watch via a social media platform Id expect him to still to 
be able to access his posts even if he has changed his phone. But he hasnt done so. I think 
this would be information Mr W ought to be able to provide. And I find it unusual that he 
hasnt been able to do so now or at the time when he spoke to Modulr about the transaction. 
I note too that in response to the provisional decision, Mr W has said that he doesnt dispute 
that there may have been something wrong with the watch he says he sold. But Ive not 
seen any evidence that Mr W attempted to reach out to the buyer via his social media 
platform to resolve things at the time. If as Mr W suggests  this is a buyer seller dispute, he 
hasnt shown he has resolved it, or attempted to resolve it which I think would have been a 
reasonable action to take  especially if Mr W says he sent the watch. But there is no 
evidence of that, so Im afraid Im not convinced that this is a buyer seller dispute as Mr W 
has suggested.
Modulr has a report of fraud against Mr W. Mr W has now had the full opportunity to provide 
evidence about the transaction subject of that report  even if he felt Modulr didnt allow him to. It is his responsibility to account for the money that was paid into his account, and he has 
been unable to provide evidence that supports his explanation.  
Having reviewed Mr Ws account of events and the evidence Modulr provided, Im satisfied 
that Moudlr had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded.  In coming to this 
view, Ive taken account the following reasons:
Mr W received fraudulent funds into his account
He was in control of who had the benefit of this money
Modulr had grounds to believe Mr W had used fraudulently obtained funds based on 
the evidence it had
Overall, when I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Mr Ws version of events, and I 
havent seen enough evidence that the sale of a watch legitimately took place. I appreciate 
that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, but whilst I take on board Mr Ws comments, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint 
should not be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated 
above and form part of this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman