DRN-2968093
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund two payments he made from his bank 
account using his debit card.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr C paid for some veneer capping boards to be fitted to the outside of his 
house by a company Ill call R. He made two payments  totalling £2,150  using his Lloyds 
debit card. In November 2020 Mr C discovered an issue with the capping boards when one 
fell off. He told us that he found that the boards had been fixed to his house with nails that 
were too short. Mr C asked R to put this right but it refused. So he asked Lloyds for a refund 
of the payments hed made to R.
 
Lloyds told him it couldnt give him a refund as more than 540 days had passed since hed 
made the payments. Mr C wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into this issue. She didnt think it should be upheld. In brief, 
she said the rules relevant to Mr Cs situation stated there was a time limit of 540 days for 
Mr C to be able to ask for a refund - but as this had passed, Lloyds hadnt done anything 
wrong by not giving him a refund.
 
Mr C didnt accept this. He said he couldnt ask for a refund earlier than he did as he didnt 
know there was a problem with the capping boards until November 2020. Mr C said there 
must be some flexibility for Lloyds to waive the rules. He also told us hes been treated 
unfairly due to a technicality rather than a weakness in his case. He said he understood our 
service was here, amongst other things, to direct banks to amend guidelines to ensure 
similar situations dont arise in the future.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is 
the heart of the matter here: has Lloyds acted unfairly and unreasonably by not giving Mr C 
a refund? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
I would also like to make it clear Im not looking at the rights and wrongs of Mr Cs dispute 
with R over the quality of its work or any of its actions. Im only looking at his complaint 
against Lloyds and the banks decision not to give him a refund. 
I can see that when Mr C first got in touch with Lloyds, it thought hed used his credit card 
rather than debit card to make the payments to R. If that had been the case, the bank would 
have been able to look to see if Mr C could get a refund under the provisions of Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). But Lloyds established that Mr C had used his debit 
card. This meant S75 didnt apply.
 
So, the bank looked to see if it could provide a refund under the chargeback rules. A 
chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes can be resolved between card 
issuers, such as Lloyds, and merchants, such as R. These disputes are dealt with under the 
relevant card scheme rules. In certain circumstances, the process provides a way for Lloyds 
to refund the disputed payments made by Mr C. These circumstances include where the 
goods or services supplied are defective. 
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. The company that Mr C paid the money to, R, can 
defend any chargeback claim. When that happens, Lloyds can pursue it further through the 
chargeback scheme. 
Unlike the provisions of S75, chargebacks arent a legal right. They are a voluntary set of 
rules laid down by the relevant card scheme. Here the card scheme is Visa. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr C, but I have no power to direct a card scheme to amend or waive these rules. 
Theres no obligation on Lloyds to submit a chargeback or pursue it further if its then 
defended. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the 
right exists and theres a reasonable prospect of success. So, Ive thought about whether 
Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably by not raising a chargeback for Mr C. 
Ive looked at the scheme rules relevant to Mr Cs situation. These set out the time limits that 
are relevant here. In general terms, the rules state that a chargeback dispute must be raised 
within 120 days of either the date Mr C made the payments to R or the date the work was 
done. In the latter case, the chargeback dispute must still be raised within 540 days of the 
date of the payment. Its not disputed that Mr C raised this issue with Lloyds after these time 
limits had expired. 
I accept Mr C didnt know about the problem till November 2020  after the 540-day deadline 
had expired. But that doesnt mean Lloyds did anything wrong by not raising a chargeback. 
The bank is bound by the card scheme rules  its not able to waive these. 
After looking at all the available evidence, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Lloyds not to attempt a chargeback. This is because its clear there was no reasonable 
prospect of it being successful. The issue had been raised by Mr C after the relevant time 
limit had expired. So, even if the bank had raised a chargeback, this would have been easily 
defendable by R due to this very reason. 
I know Mr C feels hes been treated unfairly due to a technicality rather than a weakness in 
his case. I dont agree. He may indeed feel there isnt a weakness in his case against R. But, 
as above, Im not looking at his dispute with R, the quality of its work or any of its actions  
none of that falls within our jurisdiction here. Im only looking at Mr Cs complaint against 
Lloyds. 
Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt been able to give him a refund based on the card scheme rules it 
has to follow. The outcome of Mr Cs case against Lloyds is clear cut. The crux of his argument centres on the quality of the work carried out by R and its subsequent actions. 
Lloyds had no part in that whatsoever. 
Based on the chargeback rules the bank is bound by, there are no grounds for it to ask R to 
refund the disputed payments. It follows that there isnt any fair and reasonable basis for me 
to direct Lloyds to refund these payments to Mr C when Im satisfied it hasnt done anything 
wrong here. 
I know Mr C feels very strongly about this issue. I really do appreciate the worry this has 
caused him. But in reaching my decision in this case, I have to put aside my natural feelings 
of empathy and look at this case impartially and fairly based on the evidence. Having done 
so, Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt treated Mr C unfairly and unreasonably by not giving him a 
refund of the disputed payments to R. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman