DRN-3565059
The complaint
Mr L complains about Caxton FX Ltd (Caxton) regarding issues he encountered with a pre-
paid currency card. He wants Caxton to pay him £900 compensation for ruining his family 
holiday. 
What happened
Mr L ordered a prepay card from Caxton before his family holiday. 
His card was delayed in reaching him and only just arrived in time for his holiday. Mr L 
requested a goodwill payment from Caxton for having to chase the delivery of the card, and 
for chasing that the card did not show his pre-loaded balance when he received it. Caxton 
contacted their IT department and the funds were displayed on the same day. He loaded the 
card with €300.
Mr L and his family then went on holiday. 
Whilst away, Mr L tried to use his card and it was declined. He contacted Caxton and his PIN 
and card were reset. 
He contacted Caxton already indicating that his card had already been declined 5 times and 
had not worked at all. 
Mr L then went out for dinner and took only his prepaid card. This was declined and he had 
to leave his partner at the restaurant while he returned to his hotel by taxi to collect an 
alternative card. This cost him €42. 
Mr Ls card continued to fail, and he contacted Caxton. He requested a refund of the funds 
and compensation for the charges he incurred by using other cards. He requested that 
Caxton pay him a total of £900 to cover his refund and compensation. 
Caxton processed the refund of funds but declined to pay him the £900 total. 
Mr L complained. He felt that his holiday had been ruined by the card failing 14 times and 
him having to spend a long time on the phone to Caxton having his card and PIN reset. 
Caxton responded. It apologised for the issues Mr L had encountered and suggested that he 
card itself had been faulty. Caxton offered to refund the fees Mr L had incurred, the cost of 
his calls, and his taxi costs, upon him providing evidence of these costs. Caxton also offered 
Mr L £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr L was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that Caxton do anything 
further. He considered that Caxton had made a reasonable offer of compensation in 
recognition of the failings. 
Mr L did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He feels that our 
service has sided with the business and he is upset that the offer of compensation has not 
increased since his complaint to the business.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have had particular regard to the communications Mr L has provided and his submissions 
about what the impact was on him. 
There is no dispute that Mr Ls card failed, and that this caused Mr L inconvenience whilst on 
holiday. I appreciate that Mr L has said that the card not working ruined his family holiday, 
but he has not explained why this was, other than that he had to use other cards and incur 
charges and that he spent some time on the phone with Caxton trying to get the card 
working.
I understand that this would have been inconvenient, and annoying, but I do not think that 
this would have negated the value of a holiday. Mr L clearly had other cards available and 
Caxton warns consumers to ensure they have a back-up method of payment in any event. 
Mr L has been refunded the value of the funds added to the card, and Caxton has offered to 
indemnify him for the extra costs he incurred. I do not think it unreasonable that Caxton 
wants evidence of these before it reimburses them, and I urge Mr L to provide details and 
evidence of the charges so that he can be returned to his financial position before the issues 
arose. 
It is important that we make clear the remit of our service. It is not to side with either party, or 
to necessarily increase the compensation on offer from a business. Our role is to look at 
whether a business has treated a consumer fairly and reasonably and, if we do not think it 
has, to award compensation to try to put consumers in the position they would have been in 
without the issue occurring. 
In this case, I agree with my colleague that Caxton has made a reasonable offer to 
compensate Mr Ls financial losses, and I think that £50 is a reasonable offer to reflect the 
inconvenience Mr L suffered from the card not working. 
I therefore do not ask Caxton to do anything further and I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint and do not ask Caxton FX Ltd 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman