DRN-4344783
The complaint
Mr C complained about the service provided by RBS Collective Investment Funds Limited 
(RBSCIFL) which he said unfairly delayed a withdrawal from his matured child trust fund, 
resulting in investment loss.
He didnt feel the compensation offered by RBSCIFL reflected fair redress for the fall in value 
of his investment and the shortcomings in the service it provided in this situation. 
What happened
Mr C held a child trust fund account (CTF) with RBSCIFL. On his 18th birthday, the account 
and any funds within it would automatically transfer to a matured CTF account and Mr C 
would be able to give instructions about what he wanted to do with the money. 
Heres a brief timeline setting out the background to this complaint.
On 17 August 2022, ahead of his 18th birthday, RBSCIFL sent a letter to Mr C informing him 
that once he turned 18, he needed to tell them what he wanted to do through the online 
portal. Mr C could choose to continue investing with them in an adult ISA, withdraw some or 
all of his money or transfer to another ISA provider. 
This was followed by a further letter from RBSCIFL on 14 September 2022 which explained 
RBSCIFL was awaiting further instructions which Mr C could now provide through its online 
portal  a code was provided which Mr C could scan along with the website address. 
On 16 September 2022  Mr C sent a letter to RBSCIFL saying he thought his fund would be 
frozen on his birthday but it had continued to lose value. He told RBSCIFL he was having 
persistent problems trying to register on the online portal and getting error messages telling 
him to send information by post and contact its customer services department. The next day 
he was able to upload his driving licence and bank statements via the online portal. 
On 22 September 2022, RBSCIFL phoned Mr C in response to his letter and discussed what 
he still needed to do in order to make a withdrawal.
On 28 September 2022, RBSCIFL received Mr Cs written instructions regarding making the 
withdrawal. And on 30th September 2022 the withdrawal request was placed and Mr Cs 
money transferred in line with his request. 
RBSCIFL upheld Mr Cs complaint in part. It apologised that Mr C and his father had 
experienced longer than expected hold times when trying to phone and said feedback had 
been provided to the relevant department. RBSCIFL also said it should have placed the 
withdrawal on 28 September. It acknowledged that its failure to do this meant Mr C was 
worse off by some £32 due to the fall in value of the fund over the next two days. As a 
gesture of goodwill, RBSCIFL made him an ex gratia payment of £50 to cover the shortfall 
with interest.
Mr C didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into what happened. RBSCIFL subsequently offered to 
pay Mr C a further £100 to compensate him for the frustration and inconvenience he 
suffered. 
Our investigator thought that the withdrawal request should have been actioned on 
22 September 2022 and recommended RBSCIFL should reimburse Mr C for the investment 
loss calculated by reference to this date, with interest. 
Whilst Mr C agreed with our investigators settlement proposals, RBSCIFL took a different 
view. It didnt agree with the investigator that loss assessment should be based on the 
earlier withdrawal date. It stood by its offer to pay a further £100 - bringing total 
compensation to £150. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I do appreciate how strongly Mr C feels about this complaint. I can understand it was 
upsetting to find out that his investment was losing value around the time of his 18th birthday.
Its my understanding that Mr Cs main complaint points are as follows:
correspondence from RBSCIFL had missing information and was misleading
gaining access to the online portal was a very lengthy and troublesome process and 
he wasnt warned about that
had he been able to make the withdrawal on or sooner after his 18th birthday, his 
investment would have been worth more and he holds RBSCIFL responsible for the 
shortfall.
Mr C put things this way: their correspondence, and their website, do not provide relevant 
information on how to gain access to their portal, leaving sufficient time for their inadequate 
processes to work. 
How businesses choose to operate and the services they offer are matters that come under 
the oversight of the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I do not have the 
power to tell a financial business to change its process, including giving directions about the 
timing of information and communications. Thats the role of the regulator. For these reasons 
I wont be responding to Mr Cs concerns about RBSCIFLs process for dealing with a CTF 
when it approaches maturity on the account holders 18th birthday. 
In order to uphold Mr Cs complaint I have to be able to fairly say that RBSCIFL has done 
something wrong or acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable and this led to Mr C 
suffering financial loss or some other detriment. So thats the approach I've taken. 
I dont consider that RBSCIFLs letter of 17 August was misleading. It explains that Mr C 
needed to confirm what he wanted to do through the portal when he turned 18. He would 
then be able to make the decision about when to transfer/withdraw the account. It is made 
clear the fund value can rise and fall and the value It is currently worth is not 
guaranteed until the deal has been placed. I dont think there was anything in that letter, or 
the 14 September letter to suggest that the fund was frozen at the value quoted on 
17August. Mr C couldnt register for the portal or give instructions about the CTF before he was 18 
because the CTF doesnt allow that. He was always able to access the website where he 
could find out more information about what happened when a CTF matured. From what I've 
seen on the website, I think the information Mr C needed to know would have been 
reasonably accessible and understandable. 
So I dont uphold this part of Mr Cs complaint.
RBSCIFL has upheld Mr Cs complaint about the systems issues with its portal and 
accepted that customers were kept on hold for longer than usual when trying to call its 
helpline. So I dont need to say more about this or make any findings about what has been 
agreed. But Ive kept this in mind when thinking about fair redress.
The main area of dispute seems to be how far service failings on the part of RBSCIFL 
contributed to delaying Mr Cs withdrawal. I think it's fair to say that the earliest possible 
date that the withdrawal could have happened here was on 28 September 2022. Up until 
that point, Mr C hadnt provided everything that was required in order for RBSCIFL to be 
able to process his withdrawal request. 
I've taken into account the difficulties Mr C had uploading documents to the portal  I can 
see that this proved troublesome and that he wasnt able to access the portal on all the 
occasions he tried to do this. But this makes no overall difference because ultimately, Mr C 
didnt provide the necessary written instruction that RBSCIFL needed until he sent this in 
the post on 26 September 2022. This is a regulatory requirement that RBSCIFL must 
comply with so it was unable to action any withdrawal until it received Mr Cs written 
instructions  which it did on 28 September 2022.
I've carefully listened to the call recording when RBSCIFL phoned Mr C on 
22 September 2022 to talk him through everything and clarify what was required. Mr C 
doesnt recollect all the details of this call but I am satisfied that it was made clear that he still 
needed to provide written instructions (along with some additional information to satisfy ID 
verification requirements). 
The call handler told Mr C there was  a quicker way than post and explained how he 
could download his latest bank statements and provide this information as a pdf document, 
showing his address and including a handwritten note confirming withdrawal. He explained 
Mr C could then go to the website and use the upload here button at the bottom of the 
screen. 
I am confident that Mr C understood this at the time (even if hes forgotten now) because he 
repeated all this back to the call handler. He also said he would probably do everything with 
his father, to whom the call handler had also spoken.
I find that RBSCIFL took all reasonable steps during the call to assist Mr C to complete 
things at his end so he could make his withdrawal. Using the website would have avoided 
any further issues with trying to use the portal. And I think Mr C would have realised that this 
was likely to be the quickest way to be able to finalise making his withdrawal. So I cant fairly 
hold RBSCIFL responsible for Mr Cs choice to send his written instructions in the post. 
RBSCIFL has admitted that it should have actioned his withdrawal request more promptly 
and I agree that its fair and reasonable that it should be responsible for the further loss in 
the value of Mr Cs investment after 28 September up until the point the withdrawal was 
made.   Taking these things into account, I find that the £150 offered overall by RBSCIFL is fair and 
reasonable. 
I havent seen enough to make me think that if RBSCIFL hadnt already volunteered this 
payment, it would be fair and reasonable to award any more than £150. Its enough to more 
than cover the investment loss (plus interest) and to reflect the frustration and anxiety Mr C 
experienced as a result of the systems issues with the online portal and the unduly long call 
waiting times.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C . But as Im satisfied RBSCIFL dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take any further action beyond doing what it has already offered to do.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from Mr C and the deadline for responses has now passed so 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
RBSCIFL confirmed it had nothing further to add and said it accepted the provisional 
decision.   What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
RBSCIFL should pay Mr C £150 in total (so, if it hasnt already, it should pay a further £100 
on top of the £50 payment made already).
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and RBS Collective Investment Funds Limited should take 
the steps set out above to put things right for Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman