DRN-4439962
The complaint
Miss C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited who were trading at the 
time as Littlewoods (Shop Direct) irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility 
that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In 2011, Miss C applied for a catalogue shopping account through Shop Direct. There 
were increases and decreases to the credit limit over time, too numerous to outline here. 
In 2022, Miss C complained to Shop Direct that the lending was unaffordable. Shop Direct 
upheld in part. They said that the increase to the credit limit on 23 April 2016 was not 
affordable as the credit limit increased from £5,500 to £6,250. Shop Direct offered to make 
the standard redress for such an uphold. Miss C was not satisfied with that and brought 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator agreed with Shop Directs approach to the complaint. He recommended 
the complaint be upheld in part as Shop Direct had. Miss C didnt agree. So, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 26 October 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt think Miss C was entitled to more redress than she had already 
been offered. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C thinks that Shop Direct shouldnt have given her credit as it was unaffordable to 
her. 
Prior to providing credit to Miss C, Shop Direct says it carried out a credit check. It said the 
results of this satisfied it that Miss C could afford the credit limits it offered and that the 
credit limit was reviewed as they took new information each month. And they had Miss Cs 
record of managing her account to consider in setting the credit limit. 
Shop Direct havent been able to provide more than a high-level summary of the results of 
that check to us, so I cant know exactly what they saw when they made their lending 
decisions. So, its possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before 
providing Miss C with credit. But even if thats true, I have seen insufficient evidence to 
think better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the credit limits they 
provided were unaffordable. 
It is not straightforward trying to determine affordability because Miss C has not been able 
to provide bank statements from the whole time in question. And I have not had sight of 
any credit information from the times. So, I have no way of knowing the volume of any 
credit Miss C may have had or how Miss C was managing any existing credit she had at 
the time the lending decisions were made. Miss C has provided us with her recent credit 
report. However, this contains little information from before the time of the uphold. And 
what is on the credit report suggests that Miss Cs credit was being afforded. And Miss 
Cs account looks like it was largely well managed before April 2016 with hardly any 
missed or late payments. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss C to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Shop Direct to think that any of the 
early pre-2016 credit they provided Miss C was unreasonable.
But Shop Direct did think it had been wrong to increase the credit limit from £5,500 to 
£6,250 on 23 April 2016 as that was not affordable lending. Our investigator and I agree 
with Shop Direct about that. So, did Shop Direct calculate the redress correctly?
Shop Direct thought it calculated the redress correctly. Shop Direct said that their records 
do not show that any interest was paid on normal or buy now pay later purchases. But 
Miss C was sure that she had incurred interest payments that werent currently reflected 
in the offer of redress made by Shop Direct. 
So, we had a closer look at this with Shop Direct. It turns out that both sides are correct. 
Miss C was right in that she had incurred some interest payments and they werent 
reflected in the redress calculation. But Shop Direct has explained that was because 
these interest payments were at a time when the balance didnt exceed the credit limit of 
£5,500. And that is important as that is the last credit limit that we thought represented 
reasonable lending. So, it seems that Shop Direct are also correct and right not to include 
those interest payments in the redress calculation. 
In general, the account is run such that normal purchases have an extended period for 
payment to be made free of interest (20 weeks). The terms of each buy now pay later 
promotion depends on the details of that particular promotion. So, it does not seem 
strange that Shop Direct say that the number of interest payments due on Miss Cs 
account was few. 
And I have not seen sufficient evidence that Shop Direct has failed to calculate redress in 
the standard manner for such a partially upheld case.
I know that Miss C will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss C to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to ask Shop Direct to make an award greater than the one they have 
already made.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 9 November 2023. Shop Direct have acknowledged receiving the 
decision and said they accept my provisional findings. Miss C has acknowledged receiving 
the decision and has made a further submission. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C made a final submission in which she disagreed with my view of the matter. In 
disagreeing with me Miss C resent her credit report, which was already on file and had been 
considered and discussed in my provisional decision. So, as Miss C hasnt produced any new evidence for me to consider or raised any new argument, I have nothing new to 
consider in this case, that I hadnt already considered in reaching my provisional decision. 
And so, it seems that I have insufficient reason to depart from the findings I have already 
made. 
In the absence of any new evidence or argument to consider, I have no reason to depart 
from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons why I didnt think Miss C was 
entitled to more redress than she had already been offered, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint. I have seen insufficient reason for 
Shop Direct to make an award greater than the one they have already offered Miss C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman