DRN-2323358
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds settlement of his claim, under his Property 
Owners insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K is the freeholder of a commercial property, and the flat above it, which he uses as his 
home. In July 2018 Mr K returned to the property to find someone had broken in. He 
immediately reported the break-in to his insurance broker. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ks insurance broker didnt notify Ageas of the claim until December 2018. 
A complaint about the delays has already been considered by our service against Ageas, so 
I wont comment on that any further. 
Ageas appointed an expert to visit Mr Ks property. Although Mr K had carried out some 
repair work to the garage doors where the break-in had occurred, Ageas declined the claim 
for the damage to the garage doors. They said that the timber frames showed severe decay 
and the locks were in such a poor condition they would have been opened with minimal, if 
any, force. Ageas also refused to reimburse Mr K for the work he had carried out, but they 
did agree to cover him for his internal flat door and arranged a cash settlement with him for 
that. 
Mr K wasnt happy with this. He said that the repair work hed had done was of a very poor 
standard and it had left his property unsafe. He felt Ageas should reimburse him and arrange 
to make the property safe. He complained to Ageas. 
Ageas didnt agree with Mr K and stayed with their original decision to decline the claim for 
the garage doors and the repair work arranged by Mr K. Ageas told Mr K that the garage 
doors and locks needed to be replaced prior to the break-in, so he had always needed to 
arrange this work. And they told him they couldnt be held responsible for the poor 
workmanship of the person he had asked to help him. They continued to offer the cash 
settlement to allow Mr K to replace his internal flat door. 
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She agreed with Ageas that the garage doors and locks needed to be 
replaced prior to the break-in to make the property more secure, so Mr K hasnt lost out 
financially by having them replaced now. She also said that Ageas werent responsible for 
reimbursing Mr K for that work if he felt it was done to an unsatisfactory standard. She 
agreed that Mr Ks internal door should be covered, as it was clear that force had been used 
on that, but she felt Ageas cash offer of £100 was a fair one. 
Mr K didnt accept this, so its come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is Mr Ks responsibility to ensure that his property is maintained to a good state of repair 
and is always secured. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt show that to be the case. And 
because of that Im not going to ask Ageas to do anything further in regard to Mr Ks claim. 
Ageas expert attended the property to assess the original damage. Even though this was 
some time after the break-in had happened, and Mr K had arranged for some repair work to 
be done, the expert was still able to view the original locks that had been in place, and the 
original timber door frames were still being used. Its clear from the evidence provided that 
the timber frames were in a severe state of decay. And the locks were in a very poor 
condition. Both factors allowed the garage doors to be opened without any force, or at the 
most minimal force, and confirm that Mr K wasnt maintaining this element of his property 
correctly and keeping the property secure. Mr K hasnt provided any evidence to suggest the 
garage doors were damaged during the break-in, above the state they were in prior to the 
break-in happening. So, Im satisfied there was no damage caused to the garage doors that 
should be covered by Mr Ks policy. 
Ageas have said that Mr K needed to replace the garage doors and locks before the break-in 
happened to continue to comply with his policy conditions, so he hasnt lost out financially as 
a result of having to get that work done now. I agree with them. As Ive said previously, 
maintaining the property is Mr Ks responsibility, and replacing the garage doors and locks is 
part of the maintenance that Mr K should have arranged to ensure his property remained 
safe.
I have every sympathy for Mr K as it appears the person he chose to carry out the repairs 
after the break-in wasnt as reputable as he expected him to be, and he hasnt carried out 
the repairs to a very high standard or made Mr Ks property any safer. But it isnt fair for me 
to ask Ageas to reimburse Mr K for that. And I cant ask Ageas to now make Mr Ks property 
secure as this part of the claim has been declined, which Im satisfied is reasonable. 
Ageas have paid Mr K £100 for him to replace his internal door that was also damaged 
during the break-in. This door was adequately secured and had suffered damage as a result. 
Im satisfied that Ageas have settled this part of the claim fairly, so wont be asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman