DRN-2958176
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Platform, has 
acted unreasonably by asking for a mortgage in Mr Hs name to be repaid following his 
death. It also disputes the outstanding balance.  
What happened
Mr H took out an interest only mortgage with Platform in 2006. He borrowed £137,687, 
inclusive of fees, over a term of 25 years  meaning that the mortgage was due to run until 
2031.
Mr H unfortunately passed away in March 2017. Shortly after this, payments to the mortgage 
ceased, meaning that the mortgage fell into arrears.
Mr Hs estate says it first became aware of the mortgage in April 2018. Ive seen 
correspondence between the estate, its solicitors and Platform and I can see it took several 
months for the necessary authority to discuss the mortgage to be put in place.
Once this was established, in January 2019 the estate cleared the arrears on the mortgage. 
A new direct debit was also put in place to pay the contractual monthly repayment.
Platform cancelled this direct debit in January 2020 and said it was not willing to continue to 
accept monthly repayments. It said this was because it required the estate to repay the 
mortgage in full, but it had indicated it did not intend to do so for several years.
The estate of Mr H complained about this. It said there were no grounds for Platform to insist 
on immediate full repayment following Mr Hs death as there was no clause in the terms and 
conditions of the agreement saying this would be required. And as the original mortgage 
term had not expired, it thought this was unfair. It said it was keen to repay the mortgage and 
for Mr Hs family to retain ownership of the property, but it wasnt able to do so immediately. 
It has made several proposals since for structured repayment of the borrowing over the next 
few years.
Platform said it was unwilling to accept any of these proposals. It said the mortgage was 
between it and Mr H. After he passed away the estate had a responsibility to settle his debts, 
not continue with them. So, it felt it was reasonable to require full repayment. And it said it 
would not agree to the proposals as this essentially wouldve meant it entered into a new 
agreement, outside of the mortgage.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 explaining that I was inclined to uphold 
this complaint in part. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
The issue at the centre of this dispute is Platform saying that the mortgage needs to be 
repaid in full now. The estate argues that the mortgage should be allowed to continue on its 
original terms and for it to clear the mortgage when it can, without having to sell the property. 
And it has said it hopes and intends for this to be done within the next few years, a long time 
before the original mortgage term would expire.
Platform has provided the terms and conditions that it says were applicable to the mortgage 
when it was taken out. Ive reviewed these and they dont, from what I have seen, include a 
condition that the mortgage becomes payable in full on the death of the borrower. So, I think 
the estate is correct that there is not a contractual obligation, that I can see, for this to 
happen. But just because there is not a term that directly covers this scenario, doesnt mean 
it was unfair of Platform to request repayment in full following Mr Hs death.
The mortgage agreement itself was between Mr H and Platform. Platforms position, as I 
understand it, essentially is that the agreement has effectively come to an end following his 
death  the business relationship has ended. And it has said its internal policy in such 
scenarios is to request repayment in full. It has also said any agreement it subsequently 
made with the estate would in fact actually represent an ongoing lending arrangement with 
Mr Hs family  outside of the original agreement. I dont think this position is entirely 
unreasonable. While the estate was created to deal with Mr Hs financial affairs and wishes, 
it isnt intended to be a replacement debtor in the agreement. The function of the estate is to 
settle financial matters in Mr Hs place, as best it can, not continue them.
The estate has said that Mr Hs family wish to retain ownership of the property, which is why 
it would prefer to reach an agreement for the mortgage to remain in place until this is 
hopefully achieved over the next few years, rather than the property be sold now. But I think 
it is worth making clear there is a distinction between Mr Hs family and the estate. And 
again, the function of the estate, as Platform has said in response to the complaint, is to 
settle Mr Hs affairs, not continue them to meet other objectives.
So, based on everything Ive seen I dont think Platform has acted unreasonably by 
requesting that the mortgage be repaid following Mr Hs death.
Id also add, I think Platform mayve had other grounds to request that the mortgage be 
repaid here. The mortgage it agreed with Mr H was a residential one. And part of the 
agreement was that the property would be used solely as his main residence, unless 
agreement was made with Platform for an alternative use. Platform has provided evidence 
that the property has been let to tenants for some time and has said this was without its 
agreement  which is a breach of the agreed terms. And the terms explain, where the 
conditions of the mortgage are breached, Platform can request repayment in full. So, it 
would appear Platform potentially had grounds to request repayment on this basis anyway, 
even if I didnt think its request for repayment following Mr Hs passing was reasonable.
That said, while I think Platform was entitled to request repayment of the loan, I would 
expect it to reasonably consider any proposals made by the estate to allow this to happen. 
Because while the estates function is to settle financial affairs, this is not always 
straightforward. The estate of Mr H has said it doesnt want to sell the property as Mr Hs 
family want to retain ownership. And it has also cited the pandemic as a potential barrier to 
selling the property and repaying the mortgage immediately. I dont necessarily think Mr Hs 
family not wanting to sell the property is grounds for the estate not to compete its function. 
But I think what it has said about the other potential barriers to sale isnt unreasonable. And 
while Platform wants the mortgage to be repaid immediately, I do think itd be reasonable for 
it to consider the wider circumstances and whether some compromise could be achieved.I can see that the estate has suggested repayment proposals to Platform previously, which it 
has rejected. These proposals involved the balance remaining outstanding for several years, 
which Platform was not willing to agree to. I dont think it was unreasonable of Platform to 
refuse these as this would have meant the agreement remaining in place for some time  
and effectively created a different agreement between Mr Hs family and Platform. And as 
Ive said I think it is acting fairly by asking for the balance to be settled and the mortgage 
redeemed promptly by the estate.
I can see the repayment proposals made previously also seem to include agreeing a 
settlement figure, with that figure being fixed and then repaid in lump sum instalments. But 
again, I think it was reasonable of Platform to decline this as I think it is fair that interest 
continue to apply to the balance at the contractual rate until the account is settled.
While the complaint has been waiting for decision, the estate has made our service aware of 
another proposal to repay the borrowing  involving a lump sum payment in 2021 and 
redemption in 2022. The estate would need to put this to Platform directly. And while I know 
Platform is keen for the loan to be repaid immediately, Id expect it to consider this, and any 
further alternatives the estate offered. This is because, as Ive said, while the estates 
function is to settle Mr Hs financial affairs, this is not always straightforward.
When considering the proposal, Id expect Platform to be mindful of the potential costs 
involved in the alternative that it is seeking  the immediate sale of the property. If this were 
to be done through litigation and possession, there would be significant additional costs 
involved, and this resolution would take some time  for the litigation to be concluded and, if 
successful, the property to be marketed. Even if the estate were to sell the property there 
would be additional costs for marketing and it would take time to sell. So, I think Platform 
should consider these against what the estate is now suggesting, or further alternatives it 
may put forward, as it may well be fairer for it to come to an agreement than to cause these 
additional costs.
That being said, while I think it needs to give consideration to proposals made in the wider 
context of the situation, as I think Platform is entitled to require repayment of the mortgage, I 
think it is also entitled to take recovery action if no suitable arrangement can be agreed.
While I think overall Platform has acted reasonably in asking for the mortgage to be repaid, I 
dont think all of the actions it has taken have been fair. Specifically, I think its actions in 
refusing to accept the contractual monthly repayments from the estate from January 2020 
onwards were unreasonable.
As Ive explained, the estates function was to settle Mr Hs financial affairs. And until that 
was done, I think it was reasonable that interest would continue to be applied to his 
mortgage at the contractual rate. But I also think the estate shouldve been allowed to 
continue to service the mortgage, by paying the contractual monthly amounts in Mr Hs 
place, until an agreement was reached, and it was repaid. Platform allowed this throughout 
2019, but then took the decision to refuse repayments. I know Platform was not happy with 
the proposals being put forward. But I dont think that means it was then fair to prevent the 
contractual monthly payments being made. The effect was to create an arrears position on 
the account which isnt a true reflection of how it has been operated. It is Platform blocking 
the payment that has created this position, not the estates unwillingness to make 
repayments.The estate not being able to make the monthly repayments has caused those amounts to be 
added to the mortgage balance. I dont think the contractual monthly payments alone being 
added to the balance have put the estate in a worse position. If Platform hadnt blocked it 
from making payments, it wouldve paid these amounts each month. As it stands it has 
saved those amounts each month but has to pay an equivalent figure to settle the loan. So, 
the situation  that the contractual monthly repayments since January 2020 are due in one 
form or another, is the same. But Im also conscious that a mortgage falling into arrears 
tends to generate additional costs, such as arrears interest and charges, which in this case 
wouldve been caused by Platform, not the estate.
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Platform has acted fairly in respect of the 
monthly repayments since January 2020. And I think it needs to do something to put this 
right. I think any costs added to the mortgage in respect of arrears, as well as any additional 
interest charged on the mortgage as a result of the payments not being made since January 
2020 need to be refunded and used to reduce the mortgage balance. And I think Platform 
needs to give the estate the option to continue to make contractual repayments moving 
forward, until the account is settled.
The estate of Mr H has also raised concerns about how the outstanding balance on the 
account has been calculated. It has pointed to this being an interest only mortgage but the 
balance having increased.
Platform has provided account statements from the start of the mortgage to show how the 
balance has been calculated. It has also explained that the increase in the balance was due 
to historic arrears fees, insurance premiums added and other costs, including solicitors 
costs.
Having reviewed the account statements I can see that there were periods where Mr H 
missed payments and fees were added to the mortgage. I think this appears fair. And I can 
see the cost of insurance being added. Part of the mortgage agreement was that the 
property would be adequately insured, and Mr H would provide evidence of this to Platform. 
It appears that this evidence was not provided for several years so alternate insurance was 
put in place by Platform on Mr Hs behalf and charged to the mortgage. Based on the 
information available this appears to have been done reasonably.
I can see that solicitors costs were also applied to the mortgage for work carried out on 
Platforms behalf after Mr H passed away and the account fell into arrears, but before 
contact was made with and authority to correspond received from the estate. Ive seen 
invoices for the work carried out and can indeed see that Platform did not apply all of the 
costs incurred to the mortgage  as it appears to have decided it was unfair to do so after 
making contact with the estate and its solicitors. Overall, I think what it has done, and the 
costs it has applied, is fair.
So overall, while I dont think it was fair of Platform to apply costs in respect of arrears to the 
mortgage balance from January 2020 onwards and that these should be removed, based on 
the information Ive seen I think the outstanding balance has otherwise been calculated 
correctly.
I said that, to put things right I thought Platform should refund any costs or additional interest 
applied to the mortgage in relation to arrears from January 2020 onwards  when it 
prevented repayment being made by Mr Hs estate. And I thought it should now allow the 
estate to make the contractual monthly repayments, until the balance is settled, by whatever 
means this occurs.Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Platform said it largely accepted my provisional findings. It noted the new repayment 
proposal, from the estate, which Id mentioned in my decision. It said it may be willing to 
accept this. But it asked for our service to obtain details of how the repayment would be 
made, the confirmed date the agreement would end and assurances that the repayment 
would be completed by a set date.
The representatives of Mr Hs estate also indicated they largely accepted my findings. They 
confirmed that they would send details of their repayment proposal to Platform, immediately 
after receipt of my final decision. They asked though that I require Platform to accept the 
proposal. They also noted that the reason the property was let was to avoid the property 
depreciating in value following Mr Hs death.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board what the estate has said about why the property was let. But this doesnt 
change my opinion of matters as, whatever the reason for this, this was still outside of the 
terms of the mortgage and done without Platforms agreement.
Beyond that information, the parties havent really provided anything further for me to 
consider in relation to the events being complained about. So, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. So, for the reasons summarised above I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Platform to require the mortgage to be repaid after Mr Hs death and I dont 
think it was necessarily unreasonable of it to reject the repayment proposals that were made 
previously. I do though think it acted unfairly by preventing the estate from making the 
contractual repayments and servicing the mortgage from January 2020 onwards, while 
repayment arrangements were made, as this created an inaccurate arrears position. So, I 
think any charges and interest that came about as a result of that error should be refunded. 
And Platform should allow the estate to make the monthly repayments until the balance is 
settled and it should fairly consider any further proposals made by the estate.
Platform has asked for more information about the new proposal the estate intended to 
make, which I referenced in my provisional findings, and indicated that this might be 
acceptable. Whereas the estate has asked me to require Platform to accept this proposal.
My role is to consider the complaint that has been made, about the events that have taken 
place and whether there was an error. It is not the role of the ombudsman to negotiate on 
behalf of either party moving forward. So, as I explained in my provisional decision, Id 
expect Platform to consider the proposal of the estate. Im pleased to note the estate has 
said it will send details of this to Platform promptly and that it has indicated it is willing to 
consider this. But the discussions over those proposals, and agreeing any conditions, are 
the responsibility of the parties. And those discussions need to happen directly between the 
two sides. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment or make a finding in respect of 
those proposals or require them to be agreed as part of this complaint, as those discussions 
have not taken place. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold the estate of Mr Hs complaint in part.
To put things right I order The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Platform, to refund any 
costs or additional interest applied to the mortgage in relation to arrears from January 2020 
onwards  when it prevented repayment being made by Mr Hs estate. This refund should be 
applied to reduce the mortgage balance.
I also order it to allow the estate to make the contractual monthly repayments, until the 
balance is settled, by whatever means this occurs.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman