DRN-2819015
The complaint
Mr D complains about a letter Sainsbury's Bank Plc sent to him in relation to his credit card.
What happened
In late December 2020 Sainsburys sent Mr D a letter telling him about a balance transfer 
offer on his credit card. 
Mr D complained to Sainsburys saying the letter was marketing and he had opted out of 
receiving marketing messages. Sainsburys said the letter was an account maintenance 
message which customers couldnt opt out of receiving. They went on to say the letter 
adhered to all relevant regulations and that Mr Ds marketing preferences are not affected. 
Remaining unhappy Mr D brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They didnt think the letter was marketing and 
explained that Mr D could contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if he liked. 
Mr D went to the ICO who said they thought the letter did contain marketing and that they 
had written to Sainsburys about the issue. Our investigator explained our role is to look at 
the impact the issue had on Mr D, and whilst acknowledging it was frustrating to receive the 
letter, they didnt think it was more than a minor inconvenience. Mr D remained dissatisfied 
with the view of our investigator saying he wasnt looking for financial compensation but that 
he wanted our service to acknowledge the letter was marketing and that he stop being sent 
marketing information. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr D feels strongly about what happened and the letter he received. Ive read and 
considered everything he has submitted. If I dont address a particular point, or cover a 
particular issue, its not because I havent considered it; I can assure Mr D that I have. Ive 
summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
In his most recent correspondence Mr D said he would like this service to acknowledge that 
the letter he was sent by Sainsburys was marketing. However its not the role of this service 
to make such a decision. Its for the ICO to decide if they think a business has breached any 
duties under the relevant regulations. 
Mr D referred the issue to the ICO and Ive seen their response which says they think the 
letter was marketing which didnt comply with Sainsburys data protection obligations. The 
ICO also say theyve written to Sainsburys about the matter. As the ICO are the relevant 
body to make decisions on matters like this its not my place to comment on any decision 
they make.
 
The role of our service in situations like this is to look at the impact the problem had on the 
consumer. Here Mr D received a letter which he didnt want and doesnt think he shouldve 
received. I think this situation is a minor inconvenience which doesnt warrant compensation 
so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Sainsburys to make a payment for what 
happened. I know Mr D says that he isnt looking for compensation, but nevertheless this is 
something I must consider. 
Mr D would like Sainsburys to stop sending him letters like the one he received. However 
we are not the regulator and I cant fairly intervene in how a business operates, or how they 
exercise their commercial judgement in deciding how they communicate with their 
customers. Its the role of the ICO to regulate how businesses communicate with consumers 
and theyve already told Mr D what they think about the matter and the action theyve taken.
Having carefully considered everything I wont be asking Sainsburys to take any further 
action. Thats not to say that what happened hasnt affected Mr D; I can see that it has, and 
that he feels very strongly about it. However as Ive explained, the decisions Mr D would like 
us to make, and the actions he would like to us to take, are not within the role of this service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman