DRN-4204772
The complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited, trading as 
American Express (American Express), irresponsibly granted him a credit card he couldnt 
afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr J entered into an agreement with American Express to have access to credit with a credit 
card account. The account was opened in September 2014 with a credit limit of £3,000. 
Mr J started to get into difficulties with meeting payments on his account. He received his 
first notice of default in August 2015 and others followed. The account was cancelled in 
October 2016 and passed to a third party collection business. Since February 2017, Mr J 
has been making only nominal monthly repayments to his account. 
Mr J says American Express didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
the account and shouldnt have granted him such a large credit limit. He also says he was 
already struggling financially when he applied for the card. 
American Express says that Mr Js financial circumstances were of good standing at the time 
he made his application. 
Our adjudicator disagreed and said that American Express shouldnt have given Mr J the 
card with the limit it had set. 
As American Express hasnt responded to what our adjudicator has said about this 
complaint, it has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
American Express needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr J could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Js income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that American Express should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr J. These factors 
include:
the lower a Mr Js income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Before opening the account, Ive seen that American Express gathered information about 
Mr J by carrying out a credit check and also asking him about his salary, which Mr J said 
was £40,000. But given the size of the credit limit I think it would have been proportionate 
and fair for American Express to carry out further checks to ensure it would be affordable. 
One way to do this would have been to verify the income Mr J said he was earning at the 
time. 
I say this in particular because Mr Js salary had been self-declared and was based on his 
being self-employed. Mr J has said his income was negligible before he took out the card 
and so our adjudicator asked him to provide evidence of that. Mr J sent in copy accounts 
covering the tax years 2013 to 2014 and 2014 to 2015. Our adjudicator found that for the 
first period Mr J had declared pre-tax earnings of around £5,500 and for the second period 
he had declared earnings of around £24,000. Ive also seen that Mr J told our adjudicator 
that hed only started earning any significant income from his business in November 2014. 
Up until then he hadnt been taking an income and it had in fact been necessary for him to 
take out loans to keep the business going.
Having reviewed the evidence and information Mr J sent in, Im in agreement with our 
adjudicator. It follows that I also agree that in order to have carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks, American Express should have taken steps to verify Mr Js income at 
the time.
Ive seen that American Express says its likely its credit check took account of Mr Js 
existing debt obligations at the time he made his application, although it hasnt been able to 
provide us with details of the check. This is because, based on Mr Js declared earnings of 
£40,000 alone, its likely he would have received an even higher credit limit. Ive thought 
about this carefully but I dont think it alters the position that if American Express need to 
carry out property income checks before granting Mr J credit. So I think by not doing so Mr J 
was granted credit he couldnt afford to repay. American Express therefore needs to put 
things right. 
Putting things right  what American Express needs to do
American Express shouldnt have granted Mr J the opening credit limit of £3,000. It therefore 
needs to do the following: 
Rework Mr Js account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the account. All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed; andIf an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, American Express should contact Mr J to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Mr J has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file in relation to 
the account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr J, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. 
American Express should also remove any adverse information from Mr Js credit 
file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires American Express to take off tax from this interest. 
American Express must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I therefore uphold this complaint and require American Express Ltd to pay compensation as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman