DRN-1711732
The complaint 
Mr Ls complaint is about ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV). It refused to pay his claim 
made under a travel insurance policy as it said the holiday was cancelled due to the death of 
a close relative from a pre-existing condition. He wants matters put right.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. Before I do so, I will mention 
that I cant require insurers to change their policies for the future  this service only deals 
with individual complaints and each decision turns on its individual facts.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
ERV highlighted in its key facts document about the policy an exclusion about pre-
existing medical conditions affecting you, your travelling companions or anyone else 
upon whom your travel plans depend and sets out four circumstances when claims 
due to such conditions arent covered. Only two could possibly apply in the 
circumstances of Mr Ls complaint  being given a terminal prognosis or is aware of 
any circumstances that could be reasonably expected to give rise to a claim on this 
policy. The key facts document does not have the same standing as the policy, 
which is a legal document.
The policy itself says that cancellation of holidays are covered if due to unforeseen 
illnessdeath of a close relative and only excludes claims due to a close relative if 
they were receiving hospital treatment or investigation for an undiagnosed condition 
or symptoms, in a medical trial or been given a terminal prognosis. The policy 
expressly says that if a claim is made in respect of anyone your trip depends on 
who has a pre-existing medical condition, if that persons medical practitioner 
confirms that when the policy was bought or the trip booked (whichever is later) there 
was no substantial likelihood of the condition deteriorating so that cancellation would 
be necessary, the claim will be covered.
In Mr Ls case, his close relative was diagnosed with cancer and treated before the 
holiday was booked and the policy then taken out. But the close relatives GP has 
confirmed in a medical certificate that by the time the policy was taken out, he was 
admitted to hospital but said that his condition didnt deteriorate until about a month 
later and there was no reason for family not to feel able to take a holiday at the time 
the policy was taken out.
ERV did not ask the GP whether when the policy was taken out if the GP thought that 
there wasnt any substantial likelihood of deteriorating to the extent that cancellation 
of the trip was necessary. But the GPs answer to the questions asked made it clear 
that it wasnt until about a month after the policy was taken out the family was 
advised not to travel due to the risk of deterioration and the view that death was now 
likely. The GP did not mention a terminal prognosis expressly, but he said end of life 
care was put in place about a month after the policy was taken out.I dont think ERV acted fairly or reasonably in declining the claim, given the wording 
of the policy, the wording of the key facts document, and the evidence from the GP. 
Its response to the investigators view  shows that it has adopted a very simplistic 
position  there was a pre-existing medical condition and thats enough to decline the 
claim. This isnt what the policy says, and it isnt what the key facts document says 
either. The claim should be accepted as I think it would be fair and reasonable to do 
so given the GP evidence. The claim should then be considered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy, and interest paid due to the delay.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Ls 
complaint, ERGO Reiseversicherung AG should:
Accept the claim and dealt with it under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits, excess or excluded items;
Pay 8% simple interest a year on the amount paid out from the date of claim to the 
date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman