DRN-3634737
The complaint
Mrs M complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) handling of a claim 
made under her HomeCare insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs M has held a HomeCare policy with British Gas for over 16 years. She says only British 
Gas engineers had maintained the boiler during this time. In September 2021, Mrs M 
reported a fault with the boiler.
Several engineers came out. One said the problem was that one of the pipes had become 
twisted. Mrs M said she was told this must have been caused by one of British Gas 
engineers. Mrs M arranged to have a new boiler installed and asked British Gas to share the 
cost of this, but it declined to do so. 
Mrs M complained to British Gas about its handling of the claim. British Gas responded, 
saying they were unable to offer a replacement system when a successful repair to the 
original boiler had been carried out. It recognised there had been some service failings and 
offered £150 in respect of this.
 
Unhappy with the response from British Gas, Mrs M referred the complaint to this service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators, but they didnt recommend British Gas do 
anything more to put things right. As Mrs M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M said she was told by one engineer the twisted pipe must have been caused by a 
British Gas engineer, as they were the only engineers to service the boiler. Ive reviewed the 
notes from repairs carried out on the boiler. The notes dont show the twisted pipe was noted 
on the records. So, while Ive considered what Mrs M has told us, Im not persuaded there is 
sufficient evidence for me to say it is more likely than not one of British Gas engineers were 
responsible for the twisted pipe.
As Im not persuaded British Gas is responsible for the twisted pipe, Ive considered what it 
was required to do under the policy. In deciding this, Ive reviewed the policy terms which 
say:
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and: 
 its less than seven years old; or 
 its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously 
covered by us under either a warranty or HomeCare product
Im satisfied the policy terms are clear in setting out British Gas is only required to replace 
the boiler if it cant be repaired. The job notes show the boiler was able to be repaired.
And I think its also worth noting that under the policy, a replacement would only be 
considered if the boiler was less than seven years old, or between seven and 10 years old 
and covered by a British Gas policy. However, the boiler in Mrs Ms home was 16 years old. 
I cant see it would be covered under either of these provisions. I havent seen anything else 
in the policy terms which means British Gas is required to replace the boiler or contribute to 
a replacement. It follows, I dont think British Gas acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ms request 
that it contribute towards the cost of a new boiler. Im not going to require British Gas to take 
any further action in respect of the new boiler that was installed. 
However, I can see there was some inconvenience experienced as a result of incorrect parts 
being ordered, and an arranged visit being missed. British Gas offered £150 in respect of 
this in its final response letter and, on balance, Im satisfied this amount is reasonable. I say 
this because while Mrs M and the others in her home were without heating and hot water for 
longer than they might have otherwise been had it not been for these mistakes, theyve said 
their home was well insulated and they managed well. With this in mind, Im not going to 
require British Gas to increase the payment its already made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman