DRN-2856421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain, through their representative, about the service they received when 
transferring their investments  they say theyve suffered losses as a result of delays caused 
by OCM Wealth Management Ltd. For ease of reading Ive only referred to Mr and Mrs B in 
this decision.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs B decided to move their investment portfolio  they each held a 
stocks and shares ISA and a General Investment account (GIA)  to a new platform provider 
and Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM).
On 27 March, Mr and Mrs Bs adviser emailed OCM and instructed them to proceed with the 
transfer. OCM then contacted the existing platform provider (B1) who were handling the 
transfer and advised them to proceed. 
During the transfer process there were delays caused by a few issues such as the inability to 
sell Mr and Mrs Bs Arch Cru holdings and also with residual Liontrust units that hadnt been 
sold. Ultimately, the money from the sale of Mr and Mrs Bs portfolios wasnt sent to the new 
platform until 27 April. 
Mr and Mrs Bs adviser raised a complaint with OCM as he felt theyd been financially 
disadvantaged because of how long it took to complete the transfer. OCM partially upheld 
the complaint and said, in summary:
They were disappointed to receive a complaint two years after the events took place
Their records showed that in May 2018 Mr and Mrs Bs adviser confirmed that OCM 
was never at fault in the transfer process.
Their role in the 2018 transaction was one of investment manager, not adviser. While 
they assisted in the transfer, ultimately it was the advisers responsibility to check and 
follow the transfer transaction through to its conclusion.
The adviser should also have been fully aware of the issues with the Arch Cru 
investments and should have ensured that the instructions to transfer would be 
accepted fully by the new platform.
When theyd tried to contact the adviser at a critical point in the transfer, he was 
unavailable for four working days.
It was the advisers responsibility to chase the new platform provider and not place 
the responsibility on OCM to ensure the transfer completed on time and correctly. As 
part of his suitability recommendation he should have informed Mr and Mrs B that 
they would be out of the market for some time while the transfer took place, possibly 
up to 30 days.
In order to advise on the transfer, the adviser would have been fully aware of B1s 
transaction processes and the time they would take to complete the transaction.
They received instructions from B1 to sell down the holdings to cash. In the normal 
course of events, the cash would have been sent to the new platform once the funds 
settled. However, the transfer was held up due to the inclusion of the Arch Cru fund  
as this didnt sell in line with the rest of the holdings, the cash remained on the 
account. 
B1 then informed OCM that the Arch Cru fund could not be sold down. However, at 
no point did B1 inform them that the cash already held would not be transferred. 
During this time they tried to make contact with Mr and Mrs Bs adviser (on 19 to 23 
April 2018) to see if he could do anything about the situation as the adviser. On 
Tuesday 24 April 2018 he responded and called the new platform provider to sort the 
matter out. On 27 April B1 confirmed that the payments had been made.
They thought they were only responsible for a delay of around 3 days and offered 
compensation for investment loss over that period.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the response and referred the complaint to this service for
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought, in 
summary:
The transfer itself was completed within the service standards of 30 days.
There were no guarantees that the transfer would have been completed within 30 
days and he believed it would be reasonable to suggest that Mr and Mrs Bs adviser 
would have been aware of the timescales that applied when he commenced the 
transfer.
One of the issues that arose was the fact Arch Cru funds were included in the 
transfer request. Arch Cru funds were unable to be traded and as such B1 had to 
query and obtain clarification of the inclusion of these funds.
He didnt believe it was reasonable to suggest that OCM were responsible for 
checking the transfer instructions and to have made an in-specie transfer of the Arch 
Cru holding.
The instructions were to sell the whole portfolio. It was only when the business 
obtained confirmation from Mr and Mrs Bs adviser on 24 April that the Arch Cru 
funds would be transferred in-specie that the transfer could proceed.
OCM clarified the issue regarding Liontrust which resulted in 0.0008 units being left 
which caused a delay. The number of units held in this fund was to four decimal 
places, however OCM said that the fund manager only dealt to three decimal places, 
therefore the sale went through to three decimal places leaving 0.0008 units which 
could not be sold. However, whilst there were units remaining this did not cause a 
delay as the transfer of cash still went through on 27 April.
He noted that OCM accepted that they should have started the sale to cash on 6 
April rather than 9 April and had offered redress based on what could have been 
achieved had the sales started three days early which he thought was fair and 
reasonable.
He appreciated the concerns raised but he was satisfied that even though there were 
some issues, the transfer completed within the stated timescale and as such he 
couldnt say that OCM should have completed it sooner.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with his findings and said that they didnt have a 30 day 
agreement with OCM, that was between OCM and B1. The investigator wasnt minded to 
change his opinion, and as theres been no agreement the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Firstly, I think its important for me to note Mr and Mrs Bs strength of feeling about this 
matter. Its clear theyve spent a lot of time trying to find out why the transfers didnt go 
through as quickly as they anticipated. Theyve also provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, Id like to point out that my 
decision will focus on what I consider to be the central issues of the complaint and wont 
necessarily address every single point theyve raised.
What seems to be at the heart of this complaint is whether OCM could have done more to 
ensure that the transfer was completed faster. Therefore, Ive considered their actions and 
role in the transfer process. 
I note the point Mr and Mrs B have made about not having a 30 day agreement with OCM, 
Ive reviewed the available evidence and I havent found any specific timescales mentioned 
in the client agreement between OCM and Mr and Mrs B. Ive therefore considered the rules 
that apply to ISA transfers - and they say that the time taken to transfer a Stocks and Shares 
ISA should take no more than 30 days. In my experience, a timescale of a month isnt 
uncommon for this type of transfer. However, this doesnt mean that every transfer should 
take this long, so Ive reviewed the available evidence to see if Mr and Mrs B incurred losses 
as a result of failings caused by OCM.
From what Ive seen OCM received an instruction to start the transfer on 27 March 2018. 
They then contacted B1 on 29 March, B1 responded on 5 April (there were bank holidays 
and a weekend between 30 March and 2 April) and asked OCM to commence selling down 
Mr and Mrs Bs holdings. 
OCM didnt action the request until 9 April but I note they subsequently offered 
compensation for this delay. I also note that OCM were instructed to sell down all the 
holdings to cash  they werent told that the Arch Cru holdings needed to be transferred in-
specie. Mr and Mrs Bs Arch Cru holdings were purchased prior to the start of their dealings 
with OCM so I dont think it would be fair to assume that OCM should have known that 
trading in Arch Cru was suspended and therefore couldnt have been sold. 
OCM chased B1 for an update on 11 April, B1 replied on 12 April to say the issue was with 
OCM and then emailed OCM again on 16 April to say that they were unable to sell the Arch 
Cru holdings. OCM replied on 17 April and asked B1 to remove the Arch Cru deals from the 
book and said that they would then look to move forward with an in-specie transfer of the 
stock. B1 then acknowledged OCMs email on 18 April. 
OCM have said that they tried to contact Mr and Mrs Bs adviser for guidance, initially by 
telephone and then by email between 19 and 23 April. The adviser responded to them on 24 
April and provided guidance on what needed to be done to resolve the issue with the Arch 
Cru holdings. The adviser also discovered the issue with the residual Liontrust units. Once 
the issues were discovered and a solution implemented, the funds from the holdings that 
were previously sold were sent to the new platform provider on 27 April.
It could be argued that OCM could have responded sooner to B1s email of 12 April. 
However, they responded within three working days which I dont think is unreasonable. 
During any stocks and shares ISA transfer there are a number of different parties involved. 
In this particular transfer there were multiple parties due to the involvement of OCM, B1, the 
new platform provider and Mr and Mrs Bs adviser. Its clear that there were issues with the 
transfer caused by the Arch Cru and Liontrust holdings but I dont think it would be fair to 
hold OCM solely responsible for the delays that these issues caused. From what Ive seen, 
for the most part they acted on the instruction in a timely manner - with the exception of the 
delays between 6 and 9 April which theyve offered reasonable compensation for. I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs frustration at how long the transfer took, but issues can 
happen during a transfer process. The available evidence doesnt suggest OCM didnt 
broadly act as quickly as they could have (aside from the delay Ive mentioned above). They 
passed on the instruction to B1 from Mr and Mrs B to start the transfer, then acted on the 
instruction they received to sell down all the holdings to cash and took action to try to resolve 
the issues with Arch Cru and Liontrust once they were made aware of any problems. 
Mr and Mrs B have also complained that the funds were sent to the new platform provider by 
BACS rather than CHAPS which caused a further delay. I appreciate their concerns but I can 
see that their adviser had previously sent an email to OCM asking for the funds to be 
transferred by CHAPS if there was no cost to do so. As there was a cost, the funds were 
sent by BACS. I can see why this would have caused frustration, but given what their adviser 
had previously said, I dont think I can ask OCM to compensate Mr and Mrs B for any 
financial losses due to delays caused by the funds being sent by BACS.
In summary, I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Bs disappointment with the transfer process  but I 
can see that this wasnt a straightforward transfer as there were issues that needed 
clarification and resolution before the transfer was completed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman