DRN-4045452
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have unfairly refused to refund 
£2,752.95 he lost as part of a bank impersonation scam in November 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied Mr A authorised the disputed payment he 
made to Argos using his Santander debit card. He received a call from the scammers 
who persuaded him they were calling from Santander, which led to him approving a 
payment of £2,752.95. Mr A says he was under the impression that this payment would 
later be reversed and that it would help apprehend the fraudsters who had compromised 
his account. And while I appreciate he was duped into thinking he was safeguarding his 
account by making the payment, he had still consented to the transaction being made, 
meaning it would be considered as having been authorised by him under the Payment 
Service Regulations (PSR) 2017.
The starting position under the PSRs is that banks ought to follow the instructions given 
by their customers in order for legitimate authorised payments to be made as instructed. 
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Mr A 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that Mr A has lost over £2,700, which is a significant amount of money, and 
Im sorry to hear this has left him struggling financially. But overall, Im not satisfied the 
payment wouldve appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with 
Mr As spending history, such that it ought to have been regarded as suspicious or 
indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payment was 
not of such an amount, for example, that it would represent a significant deviation from 
the way Mr As account was normally run, as I can see from his account history that he 
had made similar or even larger payments in the previous 12 months.
So, having considered the payment Mr A made to Argos as part of the scam, Im not 
persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Santanders fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being 
scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr A reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via 
the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in this instance, the payment was 
made to Argos, who supply goods and services. Mr A wouldve only had prospects of a 
chargeback succeeding in these circumstances if it could be shown that Argos failed to 
provide the goods/services paid for or that they had been misrepresented. But given the 
payment went through successfully, and given there is no evidence that the 
goods/services paid for were not ultimately provided/were misrepresented to the end 
recipient, it seems there would be little prospect of Santander being able to recover 
Mr As money through a chargeback claim. Therefore, I do not think Santander were 
under any obligation to pursue a chargeback claim for Mr A either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr A, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Santander liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman