DRN-2610858
The complaint
Mr G complains that QIC Europe Ltd has turned down a storm claim he made on his 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr G got in touch with QIC to make a claim on his buildings insurance 
policy, after storm winds caused damage to his chimney. QIC let Mr G know it had a high 
volume of storm claims and it could take some time to be in a position to look into the claim. 
It agreed that Mr G could appoint his own builder to carry out repairs and told him to send in 
photos of the damage so it could assess whether or not it thought the damage was down to 
storm.
Mr Gs contractor concluded the chimney was dangerous and needed to be demolished. The 
contractor took photos of the chimney before carrying out the works and Mr G sent these on 
to QIC. He also included a report on what the contractor thought had caused the damage.
QIC accepted that thered been storm winds around the time of the claim. It assessed the 
evidence Mr G had sent in. Based on the photos, it thought the chimney had been in a very 
poor condition. It concluded the cause of the damage was de-bonded and missing mortar 
between the bricks. It said if the chimney had been adequately maintained, it shouldnt have 
fallen apart during high winds. So it didnt think the storm was the cause of the damage. And 
it said that damage which happened over time was specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
On this basis, it turned down Mr Gs claim.
Mr G was unhappy with QICs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
the mortar had been covered in render and he couldnt have seen underneath it. He also felt 
the damage hadnt happened gradually  as a TV aerial had blown into it.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She accepted that thered 
been storm winds at the time of Mr Gs claim, which were capable of causing structural 
damage. But she weighed up the evidence provided by Mr Gs contractor and QICs 
surveying team. She didnt think Mr Gs contractor had suggested that the TV aerial was the 
sole cause of the damage. And she found QICs evidence that Mr Gs chimney shouldve 
been able to withstand high winds more persuasive. So she thought it was fair for QIC to 
turn down Mr Gs claim.
Mr G disagreed. He felt hed been placed in a position where hed had to pay out for the 
repairs and that QIC hadnt provided the service he paid it to do. He said his buyer survey 
hadnt indicated any roof issues and his contractor hadnt indicated the damage was down to 
wear and tear. He questioned how a policyholder was supposed to check underneath render 
for signs of gradual damage. He felt the policy was written in such a way as to make it 
worthless.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for QIC to turn down Mr Gs claim. Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions that we need to ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
QICs set out what it means by a storm in its policy wording. It says:
We will cover loss or damage caused by storm winds of Force 10 or above (as defined 
under the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale).
Force 10 winds are winds which are above 55mph. In this case, local weather reports show 
wind speeds of around 61mph at the time Mr G made the claim. So its clear there were 
prevailing storm conditions at the time the damage happened.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Storm winds can cause structural damage to chimneys. So Im satisfied the damage could 
be considered consistent with storm damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I appreciate that Mr G feels strongly that the storm winds were the main cause of the 
damage. QIC disagrees and thinks the damage was down to poor chimney maintenance. So 
Ive looked carefully at the available evidence to decide whether I think QICs conclusions 
were reasonable.
Mr Gs contractor provided QIC with a summary of what he thought had caused the damage, 
together with photos. He said:
The below picture clearly shows the TV aerial support and fixings, ripped out of the 
chimney, taking a rear corner with it. During demolition of the chimney, it appeared this 
violent force had caused a mortar bed 5-6 courses down to break entirely. Clearly, the 
chimney was unsafe and had to be demolished.
QICs surveyor reviewed this summary, together with the photos Mr Gs contractor took. 
They didnt think the main cause of the damage was storm. Instead, it said:
The chimney is coated with render and the brickwork beneath appears to be in an extremely 
poor condition where mortar is either missing or has debonded from the brickwork. A 
chimney that is adequately maintained should not fall apart like this even in high winds.
Where there are two contradictory pieces of expert evidence, I need to decide which I find 
most persuasive and which to place most weight on. Im mindful that Mr Gs contractor did 
have the chance to inspect the chimney, rather than relying on a desktop review of the 
photos.But Ive also looked carefully at the photos Mr Gs contractor took of the chimney. And while 
there are cracks to the render, its clear that there are substantial amounts of missing mortar 
and that there are large gaps between bricks where Id expect to see mortar. Some of the 
cracking to the render also appears aged and has some moss growth. It does appear, from 
the photo evidence to hand, that the mortar damage happened over time. I can see that 
there does appear to have been an aerial in place previously. But I dont think its more likely 
than not that the aerial pulling away from the chimney wouldve caused the type or extent of 
damage present in the photographs. 
So based on the evidence I have, it seems more likely than not that the breakdown of the 
mortar over time was the main cause of the damage, and the storm winds simply highlighted 
this existing damage. This means I think it was fair for QIC to rely on the findings of its 
surveyor to conclude that the damage wasnt down to storm. Our investigator did ask Mr G if 
his contractor could provide any additional evidence to counter QICs conclusions, but Mr G 
was unable to provide this and asked for the complaint to be considered without it. 
The policy also includes specific things the policy doesnt cover. One of these is:
Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage. This includes loss or damage which 
happens over time and gradual deterioration. Based on the surveyors evidence and the 
photos, I dont think it was unfair for QIC to consider Mr Gs claim falls within the scope of 
this exclusion clause.
I appreciate Mr G feels strongly about the terms of the policy and says that he wasnt aware 
of the condition of the brickwork underneath the rendering. But home insurance policies 
arent designed to act as maintenance contracts. Theyre intended to cover specified insured 
events  like storm or theft. In this case, QIC considered that the damage wasnt down to 
storm. And based on all Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for QIC to reach this conclusion. 
So overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for QIC to turn down Mr Gs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman