DRN-2411266
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the suitability of the advice she was given by Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions Limited to purchase a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) pension plan. Mrs R is represented by a claims management company, but for 
simplicity Ill refer to Mrs R throughout. 
What happened
In 2003 Mrs R was advised to invest in an FSAVC plan by a representative of Quilter (when 
it was trading as Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd). She was a member of the 
Teachers Pension Scheme and had six years to go until her planned retirement date.
When she retired in 2009, she combined the benefits from her FSAVC plan with another 
pension plan and purchased an annuity.
In 2019 she complained to Quilter that she had been wrongly advised. She said she 
shouldve been given a comparison of the costs and benefits of the FSAVC and her 
employers in-house Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) scheme, and that had she 
been properly advised, she would have taken the AVC option.
In its final response, Quilter said the complaint had been made too late so wouldnt consider 
it. Mrs R then complained to our service. An ombudsman decided that the complaint had 
been made in time and that our service could consider its merits.
Our investigator thought it likely that Quilter hadnt properly informed Mrs R of the options 
available to her and shouldve compared the benefits, cost and risks of the FSAVC plan and 
the in-house AVC, so he upheld the complaint. He thought Quilter should calculate the 
difference between the value of the FSAVC on retirement to the probable value of the in-
house AVC should she have purchased this instead. And that if it was found that she had 
suffered a financial loss as a result Quilter should compensate her accordingly.
Quilter didnt agree. It maintained its position that it thought the complaint was time-barred 
and wasnt one we could consider.  It also said it hadnt seen any evidence to show the costs 
of an AVC, if purchased at the time, would have been lower than the FSAVC, and in any 
case had not seen evidence that an AVC was even an option at the time. In addition it said 
that although it no longer held records of the advice it says it gave her in 2003, this doesnt 
mean the correct process wasnt followed and suitable advice wasnt given.
Because no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Quilter has, in response to the investigators view on the merits of this complaint, 
reiterated its opinion that this complaint is time-barred, I will address this issue first.
Quilter hasnt provided any further evidence to support its position that this complaint isnt 
one we can consider. I have however carefully reviewed all of the information that has been 
provided previously. Having done so, and for the reasons already explained in the decision 
on jurisdiction, which I dont intend to repeat here, Im satisfied that this complaint is one our 
service can consider. 
Mrs R says she wasnt properly advised by Quilter in 2003, so didnt know about the option 
of purchasing an in-house AVC. She said she was advised to buy the FSAVC without the 
risks or options being explained, and had she been properly advised she would have 
contributed to an in-house AVC. Quilter said she was properly advised but given the 
passage of time there are no records of the advice it gave nor the recommendations it made.
Quilter, like any regulated business offering financial advice, is required to ensure both that 
the advice given is suitable, and that it be able to demonstrate it gave that suitable advice. 
In 1996 the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) issued Regulatory Update 20, which laid out 
the procedures expected of independent financial advisors (IFA) when conducting sales. It 
confirmed that IFAs should establish what in-house alternatives to the FSAVC were 
available and to discuss the specific differences between them when making their 
recommendation. So Quilter was required to follow these rules when it advised Mrs R in 
2003.
And the requirement to keep records of the advice is found here:
COB 5.3.19A
A firm must make and retain a record of a private customer's suitability letter that it has 
provided in satisfying COB 5.3.14 R. The record must be retained for a minimum period after 
the letter is provided, as follows:
1. (1) 
for a record relating to a pension transfer, pension opt-out or free-standing additional 
voluntary contribution (FSAVC), indefinitely;
..
So the requirement to give suitable advice is clear, and records of that advice, in this case, 
should have been kept indefinitely. So on balance, given the lack of any evidence of suitable 
advice being given, Im unable to conclude that it was. And in this case, I think it most likely 
that Mrs R would have purchased an in-house AVC and not the FSAVC, had she been 
properly advised at the time. Ill explain why.
Mrs R has said she took advice in 2003 because she wanted to build up her pension. She 
had three options available to her; purchasing added years, purchasing an in-house AVC, or 
as she did in this case, an FSAVC. Quilter has argued that it has seen no evidence that an 
AVC was available at the time the advice was given. However, it has been a regulatory 
requirement since 1988 that occupational pension schemes, such as the Teachers Pension 
Scheme, should offer an AVC, so I think it is more likely than not it was an option available to 
Mrs R.
Mrs R had six years of employment left before she intended to retire, and it is reasonable to 
say that the closer someone is to retirement, the less risk they would be willing to take with 
their pension. So the purchase of added years may look attractive, but with only six years to 
go before taking her pension, and on a fairly modest wage, the cost of purchasing these 
extra years would have likely seemed large compared to the cost of the AVC or FSAVC, and 
Mrs R is not arguing that she would have taken this option anyway, so Im satisfied it can be 
discounted. So we are left with the option of an FSAVC or an in-house AVC. FSAVCs can be 
advantageous as they allow a degree of portability should the investor change employment 
for example, or they can allow investment in particular funds (such as ethical funds) which 
werent available in the AVC. However, Mrs R had six years left before retirement as a 
teacher and there is nothing to suggest she was planning a career change, nor did she have 
any particular investment interest, other than her priority of building up her pension. So Im 
satisfied that the FSAVCs specific advantages werent applicable to her. And as the 
regulator recognised during the review of mis-sold FSAVC plans between 1988 and 1999, 
FSAVCs are likely to be more expensive than AVCs for a variety of reasons. So unless 
someone needed the specific advantages of the FSAVC, an AVC was usually a better option 
for someone simply looking to add to their pension. 
Given all the above, if suitable advice had been given, Im satisfied on the balance of 
probability, that Mrs R would have made contributions to the in-house AVC over the FSAVC.  
And since Im not persuaded that she was properly advised by Quilter in 2003 I uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Mrs R purchased an annuity when she retired in 2009, and I think it is reasonable to assume 
that this would have been her intention had she contributed towards an AVC instead of the 
FSAVC plan. And given that the charges for the AVC would likely have been lower than the 
FSAVC arrangement, she would probably have been able to purchase a larger annuity. 
Therefore Quilter should undertake a loss comparison by comparing the final value of the 
FSAVC plan to the AVC policy she couldve purchased from the in-house scheme.
Quilters redress calculation should be in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review 
guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS 
mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Quilter should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the value of the annuity purchased from the FSAVC in 
2009 should be compared to the value of the annuity she couldve purchased upon 
retirement from the AVC. Quilter should then purchase an annuity to meet the shortfall. 
Should a new annuity have to be purchased to compensate for loss, the annual payment she 
will receive from the new annuity should be back dated to her retirement date in 2009 until 
the date of settlement. This should be paid to her as a lump sum with an additional 8% 
simple interest to reflect the financial loss. The payment should be made after making a 
notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 
25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.My final decision
My decision is that this complaint falls under our jurisdiction and is one that we can consider. 
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I direct Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
to pay compensation to Mrs R in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman