DRN-3252674
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy because Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Miss S received a call from someone who said he was HMRC that lasted around four hours. 
The caller told Miss S there had been a tax miscalculation and that she needed to pay the 
outstanding tax immediately or shed be imprisoned. The caller also told Miss S that a letter 
had been sent but she hadnt responded. Miss S doesnt recall the number she was called 
from but doesnt believe it was a spoofed number. 
Miss S was self-employed having recently set up a company and had an accountant but was 
aware tax was owed and thought there might have been a gap in reporting. She asked the 
caller if she could call her accountant to verify the information but was threatened and told 
that if she hung up the police would arrive. Miss S was also told that if she didnt pay, shed 
be unable to work in the UK for ten years and that as she was dealing with a government 
body, she couldnt tell anyone until the matter was sorted out. She was particularly 
concerned about her ability to work in the UK as she was not a British national and had what 
she describes as a business visa. 
Miss S asked the caller for the reasons for the payments and was told she needed to repay 
the tax, to pay to clear flags from her National Insurance number and for solicitors and court 
fess. The caller also told Miss S that a solicitor would visit the following day and the legal 
fees would be refunded. 
 
Miss S transferred funds from another current account with a different bank and made the 
following payments from her two current accounts at Metro Bank:
Date Time Payee Amount Account 
ending
04/11/20 11.03 1 £790 941
04/11/20 11.13 1 £710.50 941
04/11/20 11.37 2 £900 941
04/11/20 11.38 2 £900 941
04/11/20 11.58 2 £990 941
04/11/20 12.05 2 £990 941
04/11/20 12.22 2 £720 941
04/11/20 12.24 3 £700 941
04/11/20 12.44 3 £999 941
04/11/20 12.48 3 £999 941
04/11/20 12.55 3 £999 941
04/11/20 13.05 3 £999 941
04/11/20 13.17 3 £999 941
04/11/20 13.51 4 £999 957
04/11/20 13.54 3 £999 941
04/11/20 14.00 3 £499 941
04/11/20 14.13 3 £999 957
Total £15,191.50
Miss S has explained she wasnt familiar with the UK tax system and had never paid tax in 
the UK. 
Miss S realised shed been scammed when the caller told her she couldnt transfer any more 
funds and provided a QR code and the name of a shop she should visit to send further 
funds. After this Miss S received further calls and demands for money that she didnt 
respond to. When the call with the scammer ended Miss S contacted Metro Bank to report 
the fact she had been scammed. Metro Bank looked into the claim and agreed to refund 
50% of her losses as it hadnt provided warnings at the time the payments were made. But 
Metro Bank said Miss S was responsible for the remaining loss because she hadnt made 
sufficient checks before making the payments. In particular, Metro Bank said:
- Miss S was a director of a limited company so its reasonable to expect she was 
familiar with the tax system.
- Miss S didnt verify that she was called from a genuine HMRC number.
- The WhatsApp messages to Miss Ss mobile should have caused her concern, as 
the genuine HMRC would not send such messages.
- The promise of a refund the following day was unusual.
- It was unusual to pay individuals when making payments to HMRC or for legal fees.
- It had been unable to recover any funds. 
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld. He was 
persuaded Miss S had a reasonable basis for believing she was making a payment to the 
genuine HMRC. The investigator referred to the fact that as Miss S hadnt been in the 
country long, she wasnt familiar with the tax system and to the pressure she was put under 
given the serious consequences that were threatened. Finally, the investigator felt that Metro 
should have intervened at the time the payments were made given the frequency of them.
Miss S agreed with the investigators findings, but Metro Bank didnt. It didnt provide any 
additional points for me to consider but asked for a final decision.  
Metro Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. It has accepted it didnt 
provide adequate warnings to Miss S at the time the payments were made and so agreed to 
refund him 50% of her loss (£7,595.75). But Metro Bank held Miss S partially responsible for 
the loss, as she could have completed some checks to confirm it was a genuine call from 
HMRC. 
Im also mindful that when Miss S made these payments, Metro Bank should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro Bank should have refunded the money 
Miss S lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Metro Bank should in any event have intervened after the fifth payment as the 
payments were unusual and out of character for Miss S and if it had done so, I am 
satisfied the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Metro Bank should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss 
S lost.
The money was taken from Miss Ss current account. It is not clear how she would 
have used the money if Metro Bank had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Metro Bank should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date of loss to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered Metro Banks representations about whether Miss S had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to 
reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Miss S failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for the firm to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the 
CRM Code.
In reaching this decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster for Miss 
S and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on her thoughts and 
actions. Im also persuaded by what Miss S has told this service about how this scam 
happened. Her recollections are consistent with what he told Metro Bank when she reported 
the scam and with what other victims of scams of this nature have described. 
Im satisfied that Metro Bank has not shown that Miss S lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Although Metro Bank considers that Miss S didnt make sufficient checks before 
making the payments, I think there is a balance to be struck. The Code requires 
Metro Bank to think about all the circumstances at the time of the payments, 
including the characteristics of the customer along with the sophistication and 
complexity of the scam. In doing so, I consider Metro Bank should bear in mind the 
nature and scale of the scam, as well as its customers capability to weigh up the 
situation they are in at that time and make an informed decision about whether to 
proceed with making payments. Miss S has explained she had no previous dealings 
with HMRC and hadnt been in the UK for long so didnt know what process HMRC 
would follow in the event tax wasnt paid in full. I see that Miss S is a director of a 
company that was incorporated in April 2019. And with the benefit of hindsight and 
the removal of the pressured environment, its easier to identify elements of the scam 
that could be considered less believable. But I can see why, in the moment and given 
Miss Ss lack of understanding of the UK tax system she believed she was following 
the instructions of an organisation of authority.Im satisfied Miss S was placed under a considerable amount of pressure by the 
fraudster to make a quick payment. Miss S was convinced that if she didnt make the 
payment she would be arrested straight away and would be unable to work in the UK 
for ten years. This was of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudster to create fear  
in the hope it would disrupt Miss Ss thinking and make her more compliant. On 
balance, Im satisfied this happened here to Miss S and that in all the circumstances 
her response was not unreasonable. I believe that it was difficult for Miss S to think 
clearly in the moment, particularly as the caller kept her on the phone for hours and 
did not let her hang up to verify any details. 
Metro Bank was aware of this type of scam at the time Miss S fell victim to it and by 
not providing a relevant warning to her at the time, missed an opportunity to protect 
her from financial harm. In the absence of any warnings on these types of scams 
from Metro Bank, Miss S was not alive to the possibility she was dealing with a 
fraudster and this is another reason why I dont think she acted unreasonably by 
engaging with the fraudster and making the payments. 
Ive also concluded that Metro Bank couldve prevented most of the payments from being 
made. By the time Miss S attempted to make the sixth payment she had paid £1,510 to one 
new payee and £2,760 to a second new payee in the space of an hour. This was 
significantly out of character and unusual activity for Miss S and I think there was enough 
going on here to have caused Metro Bank concern she might be at risk of financial harm. I 
think this overall change in financial behaviour was sufficient for Metro Bank to have 
intervened and asked questions about the payments before processing further payments. 
Ive no reason to believe that Miss S wouldnt have answered Metro Banks questions 
honestly and in response to her answers, Metro Bank ought fairly and reasonably to have 
informed Miss S that this was a known scam. Had Metro Bank done so, I think Miss S would 
more likely than not have not sent any further payments to the fraudster and any further 
losses wouldve been prevented. I have considered the fact Miss S was on the phone to the 
fraudsters at the time she made the payments and so Metro Bank might not have been able 
to get through to her. But even if this was the case, Metro Bank ought not to have processed 
the payments until it was satisfied Miss S wasnt likely to be at risk of financial harm. 
The impact of my finding that Metro Bank should have prevented the loss is that interest 
should be paid from the date of Miss Ss loss rather than the date Metro Bank chose not to 
provide a full refund under the CRM Code. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Metro Bank has shown that Miss S made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payments were legitimate, and I also believe Metro 
Bank could have prevented most of the payments from being made.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC. 
Ive found that Miss S ought to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. And that
its fair and reasonable that Metro Bank PLC reimburses her now, in resolution to this 
complaint. I require Metro Bank PLC to: 
- Refund Miss S the remaining £7,595.75 she lost in the scam; 
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on the above amount from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman