DRN-4308043
The complaint
Mrs K complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) declining 
claims under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs Ks dog was involved in an altercation with another dog, Mrs Ks dog 
sustaining injury to its right eye. The dog was examined by a vet (M) who diagnosed a 
corneal perforation (perforated ulcer). M thought it was triggered by the altercation or the 
stress of the altercation and referred the dog to a specialist eye vet (V). V carried out surgery 
to repair the perforation and Mrs K submitted a claim for the cost of surgery (£3,945.31) 
which was accepted.
As well as the perforation, M diagnosed bilateral distichiasis1 in the referral. The dog 
subsequently underwent surgery in May 2022 to remove most of the extra eyelashes. Some 
returned (which V said wasnt uncommon as some may not have emerged). Mrs K made 
claims for the treatment and surgery (£2,325.44 and £158.35). However, CG said theyd only 
pay £825.49 as they considered the distichiasis to be related to the perforated ulcer. Under 
the terms of the policy, cover was limited to £4,000 per condition, per year. As the claims 
(when added to the first claim exceeded the limit, CG reduced the value of the claims.
The dog then presented to M in October 2022, where a stromal ulceration was diagnosed in 
the left eye. Treatment failed to correct the problem and the dog was again referred to V, 
who examined the dog in November 2022 and diagnosed a perforated descemetocele with 
iris prolapse and collapsed globe (the ulcer had deepened and perforated). V also observed 
some minor bilateral distichiasis still present. V performed surgery to repair the collapsed 
globe. Two claims were submitted for the surgery (£2,928.55 and £162.81). But CG rejected 
the claims, saying they considered the surgery was in respect of a bilateral condition. And as 
the £4,000 limit on cover for any one condition in a policy year had already been exceeded 
(the policy renewal date was December 2022) they declined the claims.
Mrs K challenged the decision to decline the claims, providing an opinion from V the 
incidence in November 2022 (in the left eye) was unrelated to the earlier incidence in 
January 2022 (in the right eye). But CG rejected the opinion, saying it didnt alter their view 
and theyd need clinical evidence from V the condition wasnt bilateral. 
Mrs K then complained to this service. She said, based on Vs opinion, the treatments and 
surgery carried out on her dog werent related and were separate, unrelated conditions. So, 
CG acted unfairly in considering the claims to be related and bilateral conditions and 
declining to pay out more than the £4,000 annual limit on cover for any one condition. She 
1 Distichiasis is a condition where an extra eyelash(es) is present in a dogs eye (or eyes) arising from the 
margin of the eyelid through the duct or opening of the meibornian gland or adjacent to it. The severity of the 
condition will vary and can be painful and lead to inflammation or redness of the eye. (Source: VCA animal 
hospitals)
also said shed called CG and told the treatment and surgery for bilateral distichiasis would 
be covered. She wanted CG to pay her claims in full. As well as having to pay for the 
treatments and surgery herself, shed also incurred interest charges on the sums shed paid.
As Mrs K complained to this service first, our investigator asked CG to consider the 
complaint. They didnt uphold it. In their final response, they noted Mrs Ks policy began in 
December 2020. They referred to the policy terms and conditions, including the benefit limits 
(the maximum amount that could be claimed under the policy). They also referred to the 
definition of bilateral condition (any condition that could affect body parts of which a pet had 
two, including eyes) and condition (an illness, injury or any symptoms or clinical signs of 
illness or injury).They referred to the dogs clinical history and claims history. CG noted the 
diagnoses for the three claims and the views of V the conditions werent related (or bilateral). 
However, CG said there was no medical evidence in the views provided by V the conditions 
werent related (it was just Vs opinion). So, CG confirmed their decline of the claims.
Our investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. Due to the proximity of 
the claims for treatment on the dogs eyes after it was attacked and there being no history of 
issues with the dogs eyes, the investigator concluded CG had correctly declined the claims. 
While V said none of the conditions being claimed for were related, the investigator thought 
this didnt provide clinical evidence the conditions werent linked. And in the absence of 
evidence to support Mrs K calling CG and being told the claim for ingrowing eyelashes would 
be covered, the  investigator couldnt conclude on what might have been said.
Mrs K disagreed with the investigators additional view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, she provided a further view from V setting out their opinion the 
three surgeries carried out on the dog could be considered three separate conditions and the 
three issues werent related. She also gave more information about her recollection of the 
call with CG at the time of the surgery in May 2022.
Our investigator asked CG to consider the additional evidence and points made by Mrs K. 
CG said it didnt change their view, as they considered the information from V was general 
and not proof of the specific condition of the dog. Because of the quick succession of each 
condition they couldnt dissociate between them. Also, the policy terms confirmed a bilateral 
condition as one which could impact a body part where a pet had two (including the eyes).As 
the dog experienced perforated ulcers in each eye, they considered this to be a bilateral 
condition and so subject to the same condition limit under the policy. On the distichiasis, CG 
noted Vs opinion acknowledged the condition could cause ulcerations (although 
uncommon). And V hadnt provided clinical evidence the conditions (the distichiasis and the 
ulcers) werent related  based on the clinical history, CG believed they were.
CG also provided a copy of a recording of a call with Mrs K (the call she recalled having, 
where she said shed been told the surgery for distichiasis would be covered). Based on this, 
together with the opinion of V, Mrs K said this showed CG should have accepted her claims. 
So, she confirmed her request an ombudsman review her complaint.
In my findings I concluded that the policy terms and conditions made it clear if a pet has the 
same condition in both parts (eyes in this case) at different times, that would be classified as 
a bilateral condition. As Mrs Ks dog had a perforated ulcer in January 2022 and November 
2022 (in the right and left eye respectively) then I concluded these are a bilateral condition. 
And as both incidents occurred within the same policy year (the year to December 2022) I 
concluded CG applied the bilateral condition term to treat both incidences as one condition, 
in one period and therefore subject to the policy limit of £4,000 for any one period.
But I wasnt persuaded CG had shown enough to treat the claim for the treatment of the 
perforated ulcer (in January 2022) and the subsequent treatment and surgery for bilateral distichiasis (in May 2022) as being for related conditions. So, I concluded they acted unfairly 
in adding them together when applying the policy limit of £4,000 for any one condition in any 
one year.
Given these conclusions, I thought about what CG needed to do to put things right. As I 
didnt think they could fairly treat the claims in January and May 2022 as being for a related 
condition, they should assess the claims in May 2022 as a separate condition under the 
terms of the policy, to which they should apply the policy limit for any one condition in any 
one year (including any applicable policy excess and other policy terms and conditions). 
But as I concluded the claim for treatment and surgery on the perforated ulcer in November 
2022 was for a bilateral condition, it should be assessed under the policy terms and 
conditions for a bilateral condition. That is, assessed as additional to the claim for the 
treatment and surgery on the right eye in January 2022. 
If, having assessed the claims, this led to additional settlement of the claims, CG should also 
pay interest on the additional settlement (at a rate of 8% simple) from the dates Mrs K paid 
the relevant vet bills (assuming she had paid them) to the date they settle the claims.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to provide both parties with the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set 
out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mrs K. 
Looking at what happened, and the claims submitted, while the key issue for Mrs K is CG 
declining part of the claims for the second treatment and surgery (May 2022) and declining 
the claims for the third treatment and surgery (November 2022) I think there are two aspects 
to be considered. 
First, whether CG acted fairly in limiting the claims in May 2022 because of what theyd paid 
in respect of the claim in January 2022 (as the policy limit had been reached). In restricting 
the second claims, CG are saying the conditions for which the claims were made arent 
separate, they are effectively one condition. Even though the diagnoses are different 
(perforated ulcer in the right eye for the January 2022 claim and bilateral distichiasis for the 
May 2022 claims). On the distichiasis, CG say Vs opinion acknowledged the condition could 
cause ulcerations (although uncommon). And V hadnt provided clinical evidence the 
conditions (the distichiasis and the ulcers) werent related  based on the clinical history, CG 
believe they were.
Second, whether the treatment and surgery in November 2022 (for a perforated ulcer in the 
left eye) was for a bilateral condition (given the treatment and surgery for a perforated ulcer 
in the right eye in January 2022). CG maintain it was a bilateral condition, based on the 
policy definition. It wasnt for a separate condition to those claimed for in the January and 
May 2022 treatments and surgery. 
For her part, Mrs K (supported by the opinion of V) maintains the three incidents were for 
separate, unrelated conditions (and not bilateral). So, they should each be assessed against 
the £4,000 limit for treatment of a condition in any one year.Taking the second issue first, Ive first considered what the policy says in respect of bilateral 
conditions. In their final response, CG refer to the following policy definitions:
Bilateral Condition
Means any medical Condition that can affect body parts of which your pet has two, 
on either side of its body, such as ears, eyes, knees, kneecaps, front and back legs 
and feet, cruciate ligaments, hips, mammary glands, lungs, kidneys, ovaries, 
testicles, shoulders and elbows and which can occur at different times.
Condition
Means an Illness or Accidental Injury or any Symptoms or Clinical Signs of an illness 
or Accidental Injury affecting your pet.
Given CGs decline of (part of) the second claim and the third claim was due to their view the 
policy limit (£4,000) had been exceeded, Ive also noted what CG said in their final response 
about the limit on cover in any one period of insurance:
You can claim per Condition up to the Benefit Limit of £4,000 in each and every 
Policy Period of Insurance (less the applicable Excess). Every time we offer you a 
renewal and you accept to review your policy, and pay the renewal premium, the 
benefit limit for each condition renews, no matter how many times you have made a 
claim for a condition. Furthermore, there is no limit to the number of conditions you 
can claim for provided your policy remains in force.
These definitions and policy terms mean cover is limited to £4,000 in any one policy period 
(year) for each condition claimed for. And the definition of bilateral condition means that 
should a condition occur in both parts of which a pet has two, it will be treated as one 
condition  it wont be considered as two conditions. In practice  and what CG have done in 
the circumstances of this case  is to view the perforated ulcers in the right eye (in January 
2022) and the left eye (in November 2022) as a bilateral condition. That is, its the same 
condition (perforated ulcer) affecting both eyes. 
Ive considered this carefully, along with Mrs Ks view (supported by V) the three surgeries 
were for unrelated conditions (and so should be treated as three separate conditions, to 
each of which the policy limit of £4,000 should apply). However, looking at the policy 
definition of bilateral condition it doesnt say the condition has to be related. It refers to a 
condition that can (my emphasis) affect both parts of a pets body of which they have two 
(and specifically includes eyes as one such part). The other part of the definition I think is 
relevant is the reference to and which can occur at different times. 
Taken together, I think this makes it clear if a pet has the same condition in both parts (eyes 
in this case) at different times, that would be classified as a bilateral condition under the 
policy definition. As Mrs Ks dog had a perforated ulcer in January 2022 and November 2022 
(in the right and left eye respectively) then Ive concluded these are a bilateral condition. And 
as both incidents occurred within the same policy year (the year to December 2022) then 
Ive concluded CG applied the bilateral condition term to treat both incidences as one 
condition, in one period and therefore subject to the policy limit of £4,000 for any one period.
Ive then considered the first issue, whether the treatment and surgery for the perforated 
ulcer in January 2022 and the bilateral distichiasis in May 2022 were for a related condition 
(as CG maintain) or whether they werent related (as Mrs K maintains, supported by V). In considering this issue, Ive looked at the evidence and information provided by Mrs K 
(including the views of V) and by CG (including what they think is the clinical history  and 
publicly-available articles  supporting their view). 
Looking at these sources, I think it is the case that bilateral distichiasis can cause ulcers in 
the eyes  though V says this is uncommon (CG havent challenged this point). Looking at 
publicly available sources, one notes the most common cause of ulcer is trauma of some 
description2. Looking at the publicly-available source provided by CG, while it describes the 
condition (descemetocele) it doesnt mention [bilateral] distichiasis  or any other cause or 
causes. Ive also considered the clinical notes referred to by CG in their final responses, 
which includes a reference to:
I also advised on the risk of the distichiasis being implicated (at least partly) in the 
development of the right eye keratitis and ulceration.
While this reference refers to the risk of distichiasis leading to the ulceration of the right eye, 
this isnt a definitive diagnosis of the cause of the ulcer (in the right eye). And in respect of 
the subsequent ulcer in the left eye, while mention is made of the distichiasis returning after 
the surgery for the condition in May 2022, the notes do not attribute this to be the cause of 
the ulcer. Ive also noted Vs observation that breeds of the kind of Mrs Ks dog are more 
susceptible to ulcers (also mentioned in one of the publicly available sources Ive seen).
CG say V has provided an opinion (that the conditions arent related) but this isnt clinical 
evidence. However, Vs opinion is based on their treating the dog over the course of the 
three treatments and surgery and being a specialist eye vet. As their opinion is based on 
examination of the dog over the period (even if by differing individuals) I dont accept CGs 
view it doesnt provide clinical evidence relevant to consideration of the case. Any more than 
the clinical notes wouldnt provide clinical evidence from the same vets examination of the 
dog and views on its condition.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it (and that the conditions are, on the balance of 
probabilities, related). It isnt  as CG maintain  for Mrs K to show the conditions arent 
related. 
Ive also listened to the recording of the call Mrs K says she had with CG, in which they 
agree (before the surgery took place) the bilateral distichiasis would be considered a 
separate condition. The call handler does confirm this point, albeit somewhat conditionally. 
Given the points noted above, Im not persuaded CG have shown enough to treat the claim 
for the treatment of the perforated ulcer (in January 2022) and the subsequent treatment and 
surgery for bilateral distichiasis (in May 2022) as being for related conditions. It follows, they 
acted unfairly in adding them together when applying the policy limit of £4,000 for any one 
condition in any one year.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can fairly treat the claims in January and May 2022 as being for a related 
condition, they should assess the claims in May 2022 as a separate condition under the 
terms of the policy, to which they should apply the policy limit for any one condition in any 
one year (including any applicable policy excess and other policy terms and conditions  
such as those relating to items within each claim that should be deducted). 
2 VCA animal hospitals Corneal Ulcers in Dogs. Other causes cited include bacterial and viral infections and 
other diseases (distichiasis isnt mentioned).But as Ive concluded the claim for treatment and surgery on the perforated ulcer in 
November 2022 was for a bilateral condition, it should be assessed under the policy terms 
and conditions for a bilateral condition (including any applicable policy excess and other 
policy terms and conditions  such as those relating to items within each claim that should 
be deducted). That is, assessed as additional to the claim for the treatment and surgery on 
the right eye in January 2022. 
If, having assessed the claims, this leads to additional settlement of the claims, CG should 
also pay interest on the additional settlement (at a rate of 8% simple) from the dates Mrs K 
paid the relevant vet bills (assuming she has paid them) to the date they settle the claims.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint in 
part. I intend to require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Assess the claims in May 2022 as a separate condition under the terms of the policy, 
to which they should apply the policy limit for any one condition in any one year 
(including any applicable policy excess and other policy terms and conditions  such 
as those relating to items within each claim that should be deducted). 
Assess the claims in November 2022 under the policy terms and conditions for a 
bilateral condition (including any applicable policy excess and other policy terms and 
conditions  such as those relating to items within each claim that should be 
deducted). That is, assessed as additional to the claim for the treatment and surgery 
on the right eye ulcer in January 2022. 
If, having assessed the claims, this leads to additional settlement of the claims, CG should 
also pay interest on the additional settlement (at a rate of 8% simple) from the dates Mrs K 
paid the relevant vet bills (assuming she has paid them) to the date they settle the claims.
Mrs K responded to accept the provisional decision.
CG didnt reply by the date requested for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mrs K.
As Mrs K accepted my provisional decision and CG didnt reply by the date requested for 
responses, then my final decision is unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint in part. I 
require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Assess the claims in May 2022 as a separate condition under the terms of the policy, 
to which they should apply the policy limit for any one condition in any one year 
(including any applicable policy excess and other policy terms and conditions  such 
as those relating to items within each claim that should be deducted). 
Assess the claims in November 2022 under the policy terms and conditions for a 
bilateral condition (including any applicable policy excess and other policy terms and 
conditions  such as those relating to items within each claim that should be deducted). That is, assessed as additional to the claim for the treatment and surgery 
on the right eye ulcer in January 2022. 
If, having assessed the claims, this leads to additional settlement of the claims, CG should 
also pay interest on the additional settlement (at a rate of 8% simple) from the dates Mrs K 
paid the relevant vet bills (assuming she has paid them) to the date they settle the claims.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman