DRN-3865347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the service they received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when 
paying a bankers draft into their euro account. Mr and Mrs L say it took a lot longer for the 
funds to reach their account than Barclays told them it would.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr L telephoned Barclays about a bankers draft he intended to pay into a euro 
account he held jointly with his wife. He said the money was in relation to a sale of their 
property overseas and would be in the region of one million euro. Mr L asked if there would 
be any charges and how long the draft would take to clear. The Barclays representative told 
Mr L there shouldnt be any charges and it would take a maximum of four days for the 
bankers draft to clear.
The following week, Mr L arranged for the bankers draft (of around 900,000 euro) to be 
taken into a Barclays branch so it could be paid into his account. Around a week later, Mr L 
phoned Barclays because the funds hadnt reached his account. Mr L was told that it would 
take six to eight weeks for the funds to clear.
 
Mr L phoned Barclays several times over the next few weeks for updates and to try to speed 
things up. He also raised a complaint with Barclays. The funds were received into Mr and 
Mrs Ls Barclays account around five weeks after the bankers draft was taken into the 
branch.
Barclays acknowledged there was an initial delay in processing the draft. It paid him £100 for 
distress and inconvenience, plus £25 for the cost of phone calls. Barclays also reimbursed 
him £71 to cover a charge applied by one of the overseas banks. 
Mr L remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She agreed that 
Barclays had given the incorrect timeframe in the initial phone call and there were some 
other issues. However, she thought the compensation Barclays had already paid was fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigators outcome. He didnt think the compensation Barclays 
had paid was adequate. He said he and Mrs L had lost out financially because of the 
incorrect information provided by Barclays. He said they had suffered enormous stress and 
wasted a considerable amount of costs and time. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr L I have considered all his points, even if Ive not addressed each of 
them individually. Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of his 
complaint.
From what Ive seen and been told, Mr and Mrs L asked a friend to take the bankers draft 
into a Barclays branch on 13 July 2021, as they were unable to do so themselves. Their 
friend was given a receipt and a copy of the terms relating to foreign cheques. Although this 
document doesnt specifically refer to bankers drafts in its wording, Barclays says its 
process for foreign bankers drafts is the same as for foreign cheques. And I think that is 
likely to be correct.
Barclays says the draft went through its collection process rather than being negotiated 
because of its value. I think this decision was reasonable, given the amount of money 
involved.
In the document Barclays provided it says:
While well do our best to make sure your cheque is collected as quickly as possible, we 
rely on the Foreign bank to clear the cheque  this may take up to eight weeks for some 
currencies.
Barclays has acknowledged causing some delay in processing the cheque. There was a 
delay in sending the cheque to the appropriate office, as well as some systems problems. 
However, these issues only appear to have delayed things by about a week. I can see that 
the funds were received into Mr and Mrs Ls euro account on 18 August 2021. So, this was 
well within the timeframe given in Barclays terms.
Ive listened to a recording of the call of 6 July 2021, in which Mr L was told it would take a 
maximum of four days for a bankers draft to clear. Mr L says he would have arranged for the 
money to be transferred into his overseas bank account if hed been given the correct 
timescale initially. He says he and Mrs L have lost over £10,000 because of the change in 
exchange rate from the date they expected to receive the money to the date they did. 
However, in telephone conversations with Barclays, Mr L mentioned that his overseas bank 
would have charged them over seven thousand euro to transfer the funds across to their 
Barclays account.
Its possible Mr and Mrs L would have chosen the bank transfer option, despite this 
additional charge, if theyd been given proper information about the timescale for the 
bankers draft to be cleared. However, the funds from the bankers draft went into Mr and 
Mrs Ls euro account, so there was no direct loss from any fluctuations in the exchange rate.
In a conversation with Barclays on 23 August 2021, Mr L said he hadnt yet decided when he 
would be exchanging the money into sterling. He said he would be playing the market. So, 
Im not persuaded that it was Mr Ls intention to transfer the funds to a sterling account as 
soon as he received them. Mr and Mrs Ls euro account statement shows that they didnt 
transfer the money as soon as it was received.
Given the above, I havent been able to determine that Mr and Mrs L experienced any 
financial loss from exchange rate fluctuations, as a result of the incorrect information given 
by Barclays.
Im aware that Mr L spent a lot of time on the phone to Barclays and would like to be 
compensated for this and the cost of his calls. However, Mr L was given the correct information about the timescale on 20 July 2021. So, I dont think it was necessary for him to 
keep calling Barclays to check on progress.
Mr L has also requested that Barclays cover fees charged by his lawyer for time spent 
dealing with the overseas bank and correspondent bank. However, it was Mr Ls choice to 
pay his lawyer to do this. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell Barclays to reimburse Mr and 
Mrs L for this.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L found it to be a stressful experience. It was a large sum of money, 
so I can understand why they wanted reassurance that it hadnt gone missing and wanted it 
in their possession as soon as possible. However, I dont think Barclays gave them reason to 
be concerned that they might not receive the money. Im also not persuaded that Barclays 
needed to do more to chase progress with the other banks, while still within the expected 
timeframe.
Mr L says he doesnt consider the £71 charge Barclays reimbursed them for to be 
compensation, because Barclays wasnt able to explain which bank had charged it. Barclays 
terms say that the foreign bank may take additional charges. It would appear that Barclays 
made the decision to reimburse Mr and Mrs L for this charge, rather than look into why it had 
been applied. But this seems to have been done as a gesture of goodwill. I dont think this 
shows that the charge shouldnt have been applied. In any event, I think the £100 
compensation Barclays paid Mr and Mrs L is reasonable for the distress and inconvenience 
its actions caused. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L, but Im not persuaded that 
Barclays caused them financial loss. Barclays has acknowledged a small delay in 
processing the cheque, but Mr and Mrs L received the funds within the expected timeframe 
despite this. 
I appreciate that the whole experience was stressful for Mr and Mrs L because of their 
concerns that something might go wrong, and they might not receive their funds. But I think 
the amount Barclays has already paid is enough to compensate Mr and Mrs L for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused from the delay and the incorrect information it gave. 
So, I dont require Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman