DRN-4135896
The complaint
Ms C complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank Plc when she was tricked into transferring 
money as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In July 2022 Ms C was talking to someone 
online. After a few days she agreed to send money to the third party at their request. In total 
Ms C sent around £3,657 across two transactions to another account held in her name 
before sending the money to the third party. After Ms C was asked by the third party to take 
out a loan on their behalf she became suspicious and after speaking to a member of her 
family, realised she had been scammed. 
Ms C raised the issue with Lloyds and asked it to refund her money under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM code). She said that when she first tried to send the payments 
Lloyds blocked them. And that Lloyds shouldve done more to protect her money. 
Lloyds considered the complaint but decided not to give Ms C a refund. It said the payments 
werent covered under the CRM code and that it hadnt blocked the payments. So, Ms C 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the CRM code 
applied to the payments as they were sent to an account in Ms Cs name. The Investigator 
didnt think the payments were unusual or suspicious in appearance to Lloyds considering 
Ms Cs normal account and payments history. And she didnt think the payments had been 
blocked by Lloyds. 
Ms C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said it was unusual for her to 
make large transactions on her account and these two payments shouldve been stopped. 
Ms C said the payments were made on a different device which shouldve seen suspicious 
to Lloyds. She added that the payments were blocked by Lloyds, so she shouldve been 
contacted to discuss them further which wouldve uncovered the scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms C has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The CRM is a scheme through which consumers can sometimes be refunded by their bank 
when theyve been the victim of an authorised push payment scam. But the CRM doesnt 
include Me to Me payments like the ones Ms C made  where a consumer sends money to 
another account in their name held at a different bank. So, as the CRM doesnt apply to this 
complaint, I cant use it as the basis to ask Lloyds to do more. 
It is common ground that Ms C authorised the scam payments here. I accept that this was 
an authorised payment even though Ms C was the victim of a scam. She provided valid 
instructions through her online banking. So, although it wasnt her intention to pay money to 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her 
account, Ms C is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Lloyds to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Lloyds first obligation is to follow the instruction that Ms C provided. But if that instruction is 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Lloyds to intervene and to 
ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing it. Id also expect 
Lloyds to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their customers make an 
informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There might also be cases 
where its appropriate for Lloyds to refuse to follow the instruction if there are good grounds 
to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
The starting point here is whether the instructions given by Ms C to Lloyds to transfer around 
£3,657 was unusual in relation to her typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account 
statements for the twelve months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a 
sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. The account was typically well managed 
and maintained a healthy balance. And the payments she made towards the scam were 
smaller than some payments she had made in the past - with Ms C making payments 
ranging from around £3,155, £6,000 and £11,000 previously.
As a result, I dont think the payments were so unusual or out of character that its 
reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have intervened at the time. 
I considered what Ms C has said about the payments being blocked by Lloyds and that they 
were made on a different device. Lloyds has provided evidence to show the payments 
werent blocked on its system. And considering the typical account history Ive reviewed from 
Ms Cs statements, I more persuaded by the evidence Ive received from Lloyds. So, on 
balance, I think its more likely the payments werent blocked. 
Ive considered whether Lloyds acted reasonably when it was made aware of the scam. 
Lloyds said to this service that it didnt contact the bank with which Ms C holds an account. 
But I dont think that made a difference here as Ms C has confirmed she moved the money 
from that account to the scammer. So, I dont think Lloyds treated Ms C unfairly by not 
requesting any money back from the beneficiary bank in this instance. 
In these circumstances I cant conclude the outstanding loss is the fault of Lloyds. To be 
clear, Im not blaming Ms C for the loss  its ultimately the scammer who is to blame. I 
understand that she was struggling due to personal reasons at the time the scam 
occured but Lloyds werent aware of this. So, for the reasons ive explained above, I dont think shes been treated unfairly by Lloyds. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman