DRN-3375003
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) irresponsibly granted him a loan
he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
In August 2020, Mr B acquired a car and financed the deal through a hire purchase
agreement with Advantage. Mr B was required to make 53 monthly repayments of £221.39,
with a final payment of £421.39 after which he would take ownership of the car. The total
repayable under the agreement was £12,655.06 towards which Mr B paid a £500 deposit.
Mr B says that Advantage didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Advantage didnt agree. They said that
they had carried out a thorough assessment and had clarified Mr Bs income through
payslips, used statistical data to assess his likely expenditure, and reviewed his credit file.
Advantage also noted some comments on a social media site that they believed was linked
to Mr B and in which they said hed claimed the agreement was affordable. They thought his
claim was therefore vexatious. Mr B disputes that he was responsible for those comments.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Bs complaint should be considered. She said that even if he had
made the comments it didnt necessarily mean he didnt have a valid claim. She reviewed
the information available to her and thought Advantage didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by
approving the finance agreement.
Mr B didnt agree and said that some of the income on the wage slips Advantage had
reviewed was overtime and shouldnt be considered. He said they hadnt taken all of his
debts into account and explained that he hadnt been able to make payments towards
another car loan he has since 2020. He also said that Advantage should have noticed he
was gambling and have taken that into account when assessing whether the loan was
affordable. Mr B explained that whilst he had some money in a savings account it wasnt fair
to take that into account. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion that Advantage didnt act unfairly when approving the
loan. But the investigator thought Advantage hadnt performed adequate and proportionate
checks and I think they did. So, Im issuing a provisional decision as my reasoning for not
upholding this complaint is different than the investigators.
Advantage will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
I agree with the investigator that regardless of any comments Mr B may, or may not, have
made on social media, it would be unreasonable not to consider his complaint. The
complaint may still have validity.
Our investigator didnt think Advantage had performed proportionate checks. She thought
they should have checked Mr Bs expenditure and didnt think theyd adequately considered
all of it when they used statistical data to calculate what he was likely to be spending.
I dont agree. I think Advantage gathered a reasonable amount of evidence about Mr Bs
expenditure. They hadnt asked for bank statements but had used statistical data specific to
Mr Bs location and household to estimate his likely expenditure on rent, utilities, and council
tax. Theyd then considered what would have been left over to cover other expenditure and
had made an allowance of £482. They noted that even after those expenses had been taken
into account Mr B would have had enough disposable income to afford the monthly
repayments of £221.39. I think that was a reasonable assessment of Mr Bs likely
expenditure and, whilst I accept Advantage hadnt considered every individual expense Mr B
was likely to incur, they had allowed £482 for those expenses and I think that was a
considerable amount of headroom after the main expenses of rent, utilities and council tax
had been taken into consideration as well as his credit commitments.
I dont think there was anything in Mr Bs credit file that would have given reason for concern
and merited further checks. The credit file showed several historical defaults, but Mr Bs
credit performance now appeared to have stabilised. He was in arrears towards a home
credit agreement but the balance to pay to settle the account wasnt particularly high and his
payments towards his other credit commitments were being very well maintained. Advantage
would have noted that an unsecured loan of nearly £200 was due to end soon and that his
bank account was being well managed.
I also think Advantage had performed adequate checks to establish Mr Bs income. Theyd
noted that the income fluctuated a little and had taken a reasonable view that monthly
income was around £1,743. Whilst that may have taken into account a little overtime, I dont
think that was much and I think Advantage were reasonable to do so.
I dont therefore think Advantage needed to go any further and ask, for instance, for bank
statements. So, it wouldnt be fair to suggest they should have been aware of any gambling
problem Mr B may have had or of any other debts that may not have shown on his credit file. 
All told I think the checks were proportionate and I dont think Advantage acted unfairly when
approving the finance application.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any additional information for 
me to review.
Mr B provided some additional information. He said Advantage should have checked his 
bank statements and that the use of statistics wasnt enough to assess affordability. He said 
the business wouldnt have understood his other outgoings and failure to pay other 
commitments and only by looking at the bank statements would they have noted his 
gambling addiction.
Mr B also suggested that Advantage had missed red flags in his credit file and that he had 
three separate County Court Judgements that were not being paid. He also said he had 
accounts with a debt collection company and a car loan that were also not being maintained. 
He explained that the debt had led him into financial difficulty that he wouldnt be in had it not 
been for the irresponsible lending.
It was for Advantage to decide what checks it would perform but the checks it completed 
needed to be proportionate to the loan being provided so, given the size of this loan, I would 
expect them to be quite detailed. They didnt have to ask for bank statements so they 
wouldnt have noticed any gambling problem Mr B had. I think their checks were 
proportionate for the reasons Ive already given. They reviewed and verified income, 
checked current credit commitments and made a reasonable assessment of expenditure 
using statistical data. 
Mr B has explained there were some County Court judgements on his credit file, and Ive 
seen screen shots from his phone that show these were registered in 2016 and 2017. Ive 
not seen that these were considered by Advantage as they werent listed in the credit file 
they provided. The defaults Mr B has referred me to were, but those markers, and the 
County Court judgements, were historic and as I said in my provisional decision:
The credit file showed several historical defaults, but Mr Bs credit performance now 
appeared to have stabilised. He was in arrears towards a home credit agreement but the 
balance to pay to settle the account wasnt particularly high and his payments towards his 
other credit commitments were being very well maintained. Advantage would have noted 
that an unsecured loan of nearly £200 was due to end soon and that his bank account was 
being well managed.
Ive not seen evidence of accounts with the debt collector Mr B has mentioned in his 
correspondence so it wouldnt be fair for me to take that into account. 
Ive not been persuaded that Advantage acted unfairly when they approved Mr Bs credit 
application and my provisional decision remains unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman