DRN-4062774
The complaint
A club which Ill call M complains that Metro Bank Plc treated them unfairly by not attempting
a chargeback on their behalf under the chargeback scheme.
The complaint is brought on Ms behalf by their treasurer, Mr E.
What happened
M told us:
In November and December 2020, using a Metro debit card, they booked flights with
an airline which Ill call R to attend an event in July 2021. The outbound flights were
booked for 18 July 2021 with the return planned for 26 July 2021.
The event had been cancelled by the organisers due to the Coronavirus pandemic,
so theyd approached the airline directly but been told they couldnt amend the flights.
They wanted Metro to request a chargeback from R for non-delivery of a service as
they couldnt use the flights theyd paid for.
Metro told us:
M hadnt contacted the bank within the required timescales for it to raise a
chargeback. Under the Mastercard Scheme rules, M would have needed to raise the
dispute and provide evidence to support their claim within 120 days of the service not
being delivered. It had no control over these timescales and therefore wasnt able to
raise the chargeback on Ms behalf.
It had reviewed the original email M had sent to raise the chargeback - however this
had been sent to a different bank in the Philippines with a similar name, so it hadnt
been received.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She agreed that Metro
wasnt aware of the chargeback initially as M had contacted the wrong bank. However, she
said that this service had notified Metro of Ms chargeback request on 4 November 2021,
and the return flights had been booked for 26 July 2021, which was within the 120-day
scheme limit. The investigator explained that shed asked Metro for further information on
several occasions, but it hadnt responded. So based on the evidence available, she thought
Metro should request a chargeback refund for the inbound flights.
Metro didnt agree. It said it had reviewed Ms chargeback request again, but it couldnt have
raised a chargeback on the clubs behalf as the flights they had booked had still taken place.
The bank said it wasnt that the airline hadnt delivered the flights M had paid for, but the club
had chosen not to use them due to the event being cancelled. So Metro thought the airline
couldnt be held responsible, and, on that basis, there was no justification for the
chargeback.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 March 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that M sent its original chargeback request to the wrong bank, so I 
wont cover this again. The focus of my decision is whether or not Metro should have 
raised a chargeback for M when it was notified by this service of the request in 
November 2021. Under the relevant card scheme rules M is entitled to ask Metro to 
try and recover all or part of the money it paid, provided there is evidence of a breach 
of contract. But there is a strict time limit which is set by the card scheme (not Metro) 
of 120 calendar days for a bank to raise a chargeback against a transaction paid for 
by a debit card. This timescale commences from the date of processing or the date 
the cardholder expected to receive the goods or service.
In this case, the 120 days would have taken place from the date of the flights. As the
outbound flights had been booked for 18 July 2021, it wouldnt have been possible 
for Metro to raise the chargeback on 4 November 2021, when it was notified by this 
service of Ms request, as this was more than 120 day later. However, as the return 
flights were booked for 26 July 2021, these should have been eligible for a 
chargeback if the scheme requirements were met. Based on what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded that they were. I say this because, for a chargeback to be attempted 
under the goods and services not provided which are the relevant terms for this 
case, there are two criteria that need to be satisfied 1) the cardholder would need to 
claim that they had engaged in the transaction and 2) that the goods or services they 
purchased were not received.
In this case, M has confirmed that they did make the purchase of the flight and that 
they didnt receive the service they purchased. However, for the second part of the 
chargeback to be in effect, it would need to be the merchant - in this case R - that 
hadnt provided the service to M that they purchased. But thats not what happened 
here. M cancelled the flights before R could provide them, so M had not completed 
their agreement with R  not the other way around. Therefore I think its reasonable 
that Metro didnt process Ms chargeback request as it wasnt satisfied the criteria 
had been met for it to do so.
I recognise that M has lost a significant amount of money, and that my decision will 
be very disappointing for it as its not the outcome it was hoping for. However whilst I 
acknowledge Mr Es comments about the financial loss to the club, their complaint is 
in relation to how Metro have treated them under the chargeback scheme rules - 
which is what I have to look at. And based on these rules I dont think Metro has 
treated M unfairly by saying they arent eligible to make a claim. So I wont be asking 
the bank to do anything more.
I invited M and Metro to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Metro accepted the decision and had nothing 
further to add. M didnt say whether it agreed or disagreed with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as Metro responded to say it accepted the decision and had nothing further 
to add and M hasnt responded with any further information, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman