DRN-3725265
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that AWP P&C SA hasnt fully settled a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P hold travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs P booked a family holiday to celebrate an important occasion. They booked 
holiday accommodation, which they intended to stay in, along with family members. Mr and 
Mrs P paid the full costs of the accommodation. 
Unfortunately, one of their travelling party became seriously ill shortly before they were due 
to travel. And so the trip had to be cancelled. Mr and Mrs P made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for the costs of their cancelled trip.
AWP accepted Mr and Mrs Ps claim in part. It paid for Mr and Mrs Ps share of the 
cancellation costs. But it said that the policy didnt cover the remaining members of Mr and 
Mrs Ps travelling party. So it said that the remainder of the travelling party would need to 
make a claim on their own travel insurance policies for their share of the accommodation 
costs.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with AWPs decision, as they said theyd paid for the full costs 
of the accommodation and hadnt asked for any contribution from the other members of their 
party. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator asked AWP for its file of evidence. But despite the investigator chasing up 
AWPs file, it didnt provide us with any information. So the investigator assessed the 
complaint based on the evidence Mr and Mrs P had sent us.
The investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs B had incurred the full costs of the accommodation booking. And he thought the 
policy made it clear that AWP would cover the cancellation costs a policyholder had paid or 
was contracted to pay. There was no exclusion for any costs a policyholder had paid on 
behalf of another person. So he recommended that AWP should pay the remainder of the 
claim, together with interest.
AWP didnt respond to the investigators assessment and so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AWP has settled Mr and Mrs Ps claim fairly and Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ps policy and the available evidence, to decide whether AWP has 
treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy. AWP has already 
accepted that the circumstances which gave rise to Mr and Mrs Ps claim were covered by 
the terms of the contract between the parties. So Ive thought about what cover was 
provided by this section of the policy. It says:
We will pay you up to £5000for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs 
(including excursions and other pre-paid charges) which you have paid or are contracted to 
pay.
AWP has defined what it means by you as follows:
The holders of their current account and their family.
In my view, the policy terms clearly indicate that AWP will cover any unused travel and 
accommodation costs which a policyholder has paid or is contracted to pay. In this case, the 
account holders were Mr and Mrs P. 
Mr and Mrs P have provided evidence, in the form of bank statements, which shows they 
paid the full accommodation costs. There are no entries on those bank statements to 
indicate that Mr and Mrs Ps family members reimbursed them for their share of the 
accommodation costs. And Mr and Mrs P have consistently said that there was no intention 
for their family members to do so. I accept then that Mr and Mrs P paid for the 
accommodation as a gift. Accordingly, I accept that Mr and Mrs P paid for the full costs of 
the trip and that therefore, they have borne the full cancellation loss. 
As the investigator explained, there is no specific term in this contract which limits AWPs 
liability to a policyholders share of their trip or accommodation costs. And as Im satisfied Mr 
and Mrs P paid for the trip in full, Im also satisfied that their loss is the full irrecoverable 
costs of their pre-paid accommodation. So it follows that on a plain and ordinary 
interpretation of the policy terms, Im persuaded that AWP has not settled this claim fairly. I 
find that AWP must now settle Mr and Mrs Ps cancellation claim in full, together with interest 
on the settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to now accept and settle the remainder of Mr and Mrs Ps cancellation 
claim in full, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It must add interest 
to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement.
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman