DRN-3313174
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs C booked a holiday to a country Ill refer to as S. They were 
due to go on holiday on 31 August 2020. 
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and 
on 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but essential travel abroad. During the summer of 2020 some travel was 
permitted when travel corridors were put in place. S was on the list of countries on the 
travel corridor. However, in August 2020 S was removed from the travel corridor and there 
was a requirement for people returning from S to self-isolate at home for 14 days. 
Mr and Mrs Cs flights were cancelled, and they didnt use the villa theyd booked. They 
claimed on their travel insurance policy for their unused accommodation costs. Great Lakes 
declined the claim, saying that it wasnt covered under Mr and Mrs Cs policy because there 
was an exclusion for prohibitive regulations. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C made a complaint; but 
Great Lakes maintained their decision to decline their claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and initially upheld Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint and she didnt think that there were any prohibitive regulations in force at the time. 
However, Great Lakes provided further information about the requirements to self-isolate. 
This changed our investigators mind and she decided not to uphold the complaint. Mr and 
Mrs C asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they say the conclusions 
our investigator initially reached are right and the policy terms are unclear, unenforceable, 
unlawful and unfair. They also pointed out they couldnt have travelled anyway because their 
flights were cancelled. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
The cancellation section of the policy includes a specific exclusion which says: 
What is not covered 
o) prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or 
amendment of the booked Trip due to government action. 
FCDO advice is just that  its advice that isnt legally enforceable. But the impact of S being 
removed from the travel corridor list was that there was a requirement for travellers returning 
from S to self-isolate for 14 days. This was legally enforceable. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that, in the circumstances of this case, the 
prohibitive regulation exclusion applies. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Cs comments about the investigators initial conclusions 
which they say were correct. However, Great Lakes made further representations about the 
impact of the requirement to self-isolate and the testing requirements that would apply. So, 
even if I agree that the impact of the FCDO exclusion wasnt clear from the policy wording, 
the exclusion Ive outlined above still applies to the claim.   
Mr and Mrs C also pointed out that their flight was cancelled. But I think that this was also 
most likely linked to the imposition of new restrictions on travel to S and returning from it. So, 
I still think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the exclusion. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman