DRN-3948373
The complaint
Mr K complains that British Gas Insurance Limited failed to identify a leak from his boiler 
when dealing with a claim under his HomeCare insurance policy. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties but, for completeness, Ill set 
out the timeline of events below.
In March 2021, Mr K contacted British Gas under his HomeCare policy because his 
boiler was unusually noisy. An engineer was sent out who changed the expansion 
vessel and a valve as they were faulty.
In May 2021, Mr K reported a loss of pressure. An engineer was sent out again and 
issues were identified with the pressure release valve and the expansion. Nine days 
later, the engineer returned to replace these parts and further testing satisfied the 
engineer that the issues were resolved.
In July 2021, Mr K reported that the pressure was still dropping. An engineer 
attended and was unable to find any leaks so a visit from a specialist was arranged. 
The specialist attended 14 days later and carried out leak detection using thermal 
cameras. A dripping valve was located on the hall radiator which was replaced, and 
damp patches were noted on and beneath the boiler which they said Mr K should 
monitor.
In September 2021, Mr K reported a loss of heating and hot water. An engineer 
attended and topped up the vessel which resolved the issue.
In February 2022, Mr K was scheduled for his annual boiler service but had to cancel 
due to ill health. 
In April 2022, Mr K reported a loss of heating and hot water, a leak and loss of 
pressure. An engineer attended and found a leak from the diverter valve. He tried to 
replace it but was unable to do so due to how badly it had corroded. He deemed the 
appliance to be potentially beyond repair.
Mr K believes the leak from the diverter valve has been the underlying problem all along. He 
complains that British Gas were negligent in failing to identify it which has led to his boiler 
being beyond repair. And as his policy doesnt cover a replacement, hes left having to fund 
a new boiler himself.
British Gas didnt uphold the complaint. It says all steps were taken by its engineers during 
each visit to fully investigate and resolve the issues highlighted at the time. And that Mr K 
didnt make contact for a period of seven months to advise that the problem persisted. 
As Mr K remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service. But our Investigator 
didnt uphold it as he didnt think there was satisfactory evidence that British Gas had been 
negligent. 
Mr K didnt agree and raised the following points:
He questions how a boiler part can corrode to that degree in a period of seven 
months.
Although the engineers replaced / fixed some parts, they werent confident that these 
were the cause of the loss of pressure and seemed to just be trying things to see if it 
resolved the issue.
The engineers didnt always examine the boiler and take the front cover off.
He questions why British Gas, or the specialists, didnt investigate the damp patches 
further.
During the visit in September 2021, he was told that topping up the vessel was a 
temporary fix and that someone would come out to inspect the boiler again. But no 
one ever came out. Its unfair to penalise him for this as the onus should be on British 
Gas to arrange this visit.
After raising his complaint, he spoke to an advisor on the phone who accepted that 
they may have missed the leak and offered to pay back some of the premiums. He 
asked for this to be put in writing but didnt receive anything until the final response 
letter was received which rejected his complaint.
As our Investigator has been unable to resolve things, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information provided, I can see that British Gas arranged for an engineer to attend 
Mr Ks property every time he made contact and reported a problem. On the third call out, in 
July 2021, it was clear the issues were ongoing. At this point, British Gas arranged for a 
specialist to attend the property, which I think was the correct approach to take. 
Ive been provided with a copy of the report and photographs from this visit. The report says:
Heating system depressurising every 5 days, used thermal camera to investigate 
possible leak on heating systems unable to find any spots on floor which would mean 
lifting. Found 1 dripping valve on hall radiator. Replaced radiator valve added leak 
sealer and circulated heating system no drop on whole visit damp patches noted on 
living room walls, from neighbours bathroom advised customer to investigate. Left 
system running and in working order. Also noted patches on and beneath boiler 
which had signs of water damage, customer to monitor.
As there had been two prior visits to Mr Ks property where repairs were made, I think it was 
reasonable for the specialists to ask him to monitor the patches around the boiler. I say this because there was nothing to suggest these were from an existing leak, rather than from a 
previous issue that had already been resolved. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr K reported any developments or further patches 
on or beneath the boiler following this inspection. As he was asked to monitor the situation, 
Im satisfied it was for him to let British Gas know of any changes that would indicate the 
patches were from an ongoing leak. 
Mr K tells us that in September 2021, the implemented fix was only temporary and that a 
further visit would be arranged. This isnt reflected in British Gas notes which indicate that 
the problem was resolved. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr K chased up this visit 
and no further contact was made from him until April 2022.
Im not a boiler expert and nor am I expected to be. So, to decide whether British Gas has 
been negligent I have to rely on the evidence presented. 
I appreciate Mr K feels very strongly that British Gas has been negligent in failing to identify 
a leak to his boiler. But Mr K hasnt provided us with any expert report / opinion to support 
his assertions. He doesnt believe the diverter valve couldve failed and corroded within a 
seven-month period but I cant say whether or not this is possible. 
British Gas notes show me that three different engineers attended Mr Ks property during 
the timeline above as well as a specialist from an independent company. None of these 
experts identified a problem with the diverter valve prior to April 2022. And without evidence 
to show me that, on the balance of probabilities, it was leaking during these visits that took 
place between March 2021 and September 2021 I cant fairly say that British Gas failed to 
identify it.
Ive thought about Mr Ks comments that the engineers werent confident theyd identified the 
underlying problem with the boiler, and they were carrying out different repairs to see if they 
could resolve the problem. If this was the case, I think it was even more important for Mr K to 
monitor the boiler and let British Gas know if the problems persisted. But Mr K didnt make 
contact for seven months and during that time he cancelled his annual boiler service. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that British Gas has acted negligently in 
the handling of Mr Ks claim. 
And finally, I understand Mr K says British Gas offered him a refund of premiums in a call 
about his complaint. British Gas say it no longer has the recording, but it has provided us 
with the notes made by the advisor at the time. Unfortunately, this makes no mention of any 
offer made. 
Whilst I dont disbelieve Mr Ks recollection of this call, I think that on balance, a settlement 
offer would have been something recorded on the call note. But even if Mr K was told this, 
Im not persuaded it had an impact to the extent that compensation should be awarded as 
British Gas went on to consider the complaint in full and determined that there was no 
negligence on its engineers part. As I agree with that outcome, I cant fairly award any 
redress here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman