DRN-4020631
The complaint
Mr R complained that Equiniti Financial Services Limited (Equiniti) did not carry over his 
existing dividend reinvestment instruction when transferring his shares into the Corporate 
Nominee Service (Ill refer to these as his NG shares). His intention had been to continue to 
receive a scrip dividend. Instead, Equiniti paid Mr R two dividend payments via cash. 
To put things right, Mr R would like the two dividends he received as cash to be converted to 
scrip dividends instead.
What happened
Mr R held certificated NG shares through Equiniti and he received scrip dividends in respect 
of these. 
The NG scrip dividend scheme enables shareholders to elect to receive new fully paid 
ordinary NG shares instead of cash, saving on dealing costs and stamp duty which would 
otherwise be incurred. 
Mr R phoned Equiniti on 7 September 2021 to enquire about transferring his NG certificated 
shares into the Corporate Nominee Service. Mr R said he was keen for his shares to be held 
electronically so he would no longer have to look after share certificates. He told the agent 
he wanted to go ahead and she arranged for a Request to transfer Certificated shares into 
the Corporate Nominee Service (otherwise known as Form D) to be sent to Mr R.
On Form D, it stated, in capital letters and bold type as follows:
**IMPORTANT**
DIVIDEND ELECTION INSTRUCTIONS ARE NOT TRANSFERRED TO THE NOMINEE 
SERVICE AND YOU WILL RECEIVE YOUR CASH DIVIDENDS BY STERLING CHEQUE 
UNLESS YOU INSTRUCT US OTHERWISE 
Mr R completed and signed Form D on 16 September 2021. Equiniti transferred Mr Rs NG 
shares into the Corporate Nominee Service shortly after. 
On 4 July 2022, Mr R phoned Equiniti to check how his dividends were being paid  he said 
things seem to have changed. The agent confirmed that since hed moved his NG shares 
into the Corporate Nominee Service the dividends were being paid in cash. The agent 
confirmed that receiving a scrip dividend was still an option he could apply for and he sent 
Mr R the scrip dividend form.
Mr R phoned Equiniti again on 22 July 2022 and another scrip dividend mandate form was 
sent to him.
Equiniti received Mr Rs completed scrip dividend mandate form on 8 August 2022 and set 
up his instruction for future dividends to be applied that way, rather than in cash.
When Mr R complained about what had happened, Equiniti didnt uphold his complaint. It 
mainly said that it had acted in line with the instructions on Mr Rs signed Form D and that 
dividends paid in January and August 2022 were correctly paid in cash using the bank 
details he had provided. Equiniti said it acted on his instructions to pay scrip dividends after 
August 2022.  
Mr R was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt feel that Equiniti had acted unfairly or unreasonably overall. Briefly, 
her view was that Equiniti had carried out Mr Rs signed instructions on Form D and the two 
cash dividends had been correctly credited to his account. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr R disagreed. He mainly said (in brief summary):
Equiniti unilaterally did away with my scrip dividend and paid me cash in breach of 
their terms and conditions
Form D wasnt clear  he wasnt given a copy and as far as he was concerned, the 
form was called Request to transfer Certificated Shares. and the only part that 
applied to him was the transfer instruction. He didnt agree it was clear that doing this 
would mean a change to dividend payments in cash 
his original dividend mandate hadnt expired and as Mr R was the shareholder it was 
up to him (and no-one else) to change this. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr R  I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for him. We provide an informal complaints handling service and 
this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Mr R and Equiniti and reach an independent, fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case. 
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
The crux of the complaint seems to me to be whether Equiniti acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr R when it stopped paying him scrip dividends and paid him cash dividends on 
two occasions in 2022.  
I've carefully listened to all the call recordings I've been provided with and I've taken into 
account that Mr R said that from his point of view, he had filled in Form D to suit his 
particular needs and requirements.
I find that Form D was reasonably clear  it drew attention to the information about how 
dividends would be paid after transfer to the nominee service and explicitly said that 
dividends would be received as cash unless you instruct us otherwise.  
I have kept in mind that during the 7 September phone call, when Mr R first enquired about 
transferring into the nominee service, he mentioned that he got scrip dividends and asked: that would still carry on, would it? The agent told him Yes and explained that the only 
change would be that Mr R would no longer have share certificates as these would be held 
in the Corporate Nominee Service. 
Equiniti has conceded that was incorrect information at the time. Unfortunately, I think it 
served to reinforce incorrect assumptions Mr R held. 
As I understand it, Mr R assumed his original instructions regarding scrip dividends would 
continue unaffected because:
his longstanding instructions already provided for scrip dividends to be paid and in 
Equinitis terms and conditions it says: 3.1 . Unless you instruct us otherwise, 
we will continue to observe any bank mandates or other instructions you have given 
us or Equiniti Limited concerning your shares.
only he had authority to change the mandate in respect of scrip dividends
nothing had changed when Equiniti took over as registrar so he had no reason to 
think that the way he received dividends would change just because he wanted to 
transfer and go paperless.
I've thought carefully about all these points. Whilst I find that Equiniti did provide misleading 
information to Mr R during the 7 September phone call, which Equiniti concedes, this isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
I say this because the ombudsman approach is to take into account what Mr R could have 
done differently to mitigate any loss. Here, I think he couldve seen that Form D appeared to 
say something different to what hed been told over the phone  the information was 
highlighted prominently on the form and the way it was set out suggested it was important. 
So, if Mr Rs thinking had been influenced by the incorrect information provided by the agent 
during the 7 September call, its reasonable to think that he should have gone back to 
Equiniti to find out whether he could safely rely on what the agent had said or whether he 
should instead follow the instructions on Form D. 
I think its likely that if Mr R had spoken to Equiniti again, before signing Form D, then he 
would have been told (as he was in the next call he had with Equiniti) that Form D included 
the instructions he needed to know and that he had to take further steps if he wanted to 
continue to receive scrip dividends. 
The fact that Mr R had arranged to receive scrip dividends some twenty years or so earlier 
and that arrangement hadnt been affected when Equiniti became involved with his NG 
shares, arent good enough reasons for me to change my decision.
And looking at the full context of paragraph 3.1, which he relies on in support of his view, 
I dont read this part of the terms and conditions the same way as Mr R  I think 3.1 is 
referring specifically to cash dividends. 
Paragraph 3.2 covers scrip dividends and says: We may make available a service to enable 
you to:
 reinvest any sums receivable on your shares by way of a distribution of dividend by 
purchasing more shares in the Company; or
 receive new shares instead of a cash dividend if declared by the Board of the Company; or
 receive any sums receivable on your dividend by way of a distribution in any alternative 
payment method made available by the Company.Provided your instruction as to how you wish to receive your dividend has been processed 
(subject to the Terms and Conditions of that service), and the necessary shares or funds 
have been received by us, we will reallocate them to you, subject to these Terms and 
Conditions. (my underlining)
Looked at overall, I have concluded that:
Form D reasonably clearly stated that Mr R needed to give instructions if he didnt 
want to receive cash dividends following transfer to the nominee service
Equiniti did enough to make Mr R aware that he had to specifically give further 
instructions if he wanted to continue to receive scrip dividends following the transfer 
of his NG shares to the nominee service 
when Mr R signed Form D, he didnt give instructions for scrip dividends. 
So I cant make a finding on these facts that Equiniti acted in a way that wasnt fair and 
reasonable overall when it paid Mr R cash dividends, in line with the instructions he provided 
when he signed Form D. And in August 2022, when he did provide ..instruction as to how 
you wish to receive your dividend in accordance with 3.2, Equiniti correctly paid him scrip 
dividends from that point on. 
All in all, it follows that I havent identified sufficient grounds to uphold this complaint. 
Mr R has raised at least one other complaint point over the course of this matter which 
doesnt form part of the complaint I have considered. If he feels he has further cause for 
complaint (that goes beyond the scope of the complaint he brought to us), then he should 
first tell Equiniti what his concerns are, so it has an opportunity to respond. If he still feels 
unhappy after that, he may be able to bring a new complaint to this service. We cant 
investigate a complaint or award redress where the financial business hasnt first been given 
a chance to put things right.  
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr R but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman