DRN-4296268
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about Tesco Underwriting Limited. They are not happy 
about the way a claim under their building insurance was dealt with and the delays involved.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their building insurance policy, and they had to be placed 
in Alternative Accommodation (AA) while the claim was dealt with for a prolonged period of 
time. They complained to Tesco and then this Service about a number of issues including 
the fact they didnt get call backs and had to chase Tesco about the claim; that there were 
delays getting back into their home causing their AA to be extended; and that they werent 
provided with suitable AA for their dog. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs W and partly upheld their complaint. He 
accepted Tescos service could have been better and that there was some delay and so he 
suggested Tesco pay £100 by way of compensation. And he went on to suggest that Tesco 
should pay the costs it would have paid if Mr and Mrs W had chosen to put their dog in a 
kennel.
Tesco accepted it should pay £100 compensation but didnt think it should pay kennel costs 
as this wasnt something Mr and Mrs W wanted originally. Plus, Mr and Mrs W didnt think 
£100 compensation was sufficient, so the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the complaint should be upheld but Im suggesting a different 
settlement of the complaint. Ive reached out to both sides about my proposed settlement to 
this complaint and broadly both sides have agreed. 
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. 
This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to 
every question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. And as our 
investigator highlighted Mr and Mrs W had further difficulties after Tesco issued its final 
response letter (January 2023) on this complaint and anything after this date would have to 
be considered separately.
In relation to this complaint, I agree the service provided hasnt been good enough and the 
claim has been delayed. But claims like Mr and Mrs Ws are often drawn out and difficult and 
a lot of the problems they have faced stem from the difficulties in dealing with a claim like 
theirs. However, I agree that everything was made worse by the general handling by Tesco, 
especially in relation to the difficulties they faced with their pet.
It mustve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs W to have had to chase Tesco and that it didnt 
keep them up to date. And Tesco has acknowledged it contributed to some of the delay 
which clearly impacted the return to their property. Fortunately, Mr and Mrs W were still in 
AA at that point in time but obviously any delay would be stressful and inconvenient.  
What must have been very difficult for Mr and Mrs W was that the pet friendly AA they were 
placed in didnt allow them to leave their dog unattended. This meant they had to travel 19 
miles to friends and family to leave their dog when the house was empty. And I think the fact 
they couldnt leave their dog alone in the property shouldve been made abundantly clear to 
Mr and Mrs W before they took the AA and so they should be compensated for the stress 
and inconvenience caused here.
Our investigator suggested Tesco should pay the equivalent costs as if Mr and Mrs W had 
put their dog in kennels. While I understand this I agree with Tesco that Mr and Mrs W didnt 
want to take up this option so I dont think this would be fair. And Tesco did pay for a pet 
friendly property it just wasnt as suitable as it should have been. 
The aim of this Service is to try and put the consumer back into the position they would have 
been but for the error. So, I think Tesco should pay the costs Mr and Mrs W incurred (as 
Tesco suggested) in travelling to family and friends with their dog as they couldnt leave the 
dog alone in the AA. 
However, I think that Tesco should also pay additional compensation for the stress, hassle 
and inconvenience caused here. So as well as paying the costs incurred I think Tesco 
should pay additional compensation here on top of the £100 our investigator awarded - 
taking account of the additional inconvenience caused in having to transport their dog and 
the general issues identified in dealing with this claim. 
Given all of this, I think Tesco should pay Mr and Mrs W a further £500 (£600 total) in 
compensation here in addition to the costs Mr and Mrs W incurred in having to travel with 
their dog. As Tesco has suggested I think Mr and Mrs W should put a claim in for the 
additional costs incurred to Tesco for consideration and it should add 8% simple interest for 
the time they have been without the money.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. 
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay £600 (total) in compensation. And to pay the 
costs Mr and Mrs W incurred in having to unnecessarily transport their dog (subject to Mr 
and Mrs W making a claim and reasonable proof), adding 8% interest from the day the cost 
incurred until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman