DRN-2807941
The complaint
Mr J complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) hasnt treated him fairly when 
he made a claim on his insurance. 
What happened
Mr J has an insurance policy that covers him for the breakdown of or accidental damage to 
digital receiving equipment (DRE) provided by S, TVs and other electronic equipment like 
laptops and gaming equipment.
In February 2020 Mr J reported that his DRE wasnt working and D&G arranged a visit from 
an engineer. After two visits it was concluded that the problem was caused by third party 
equipment which wasnt covered by the policy.  
At this point Mr J decided to upgrade his subscription with S  and new equipment was due 
to be installed in April. Mr J says that was delayed until early June because of unforeseen 
circumstances. He says the engineer installing the new receiver said there was a problem 
with the signal. Mr J says this issue was only resolved in September 2020.
Mr J had a TV adjusted in early March as the picture quality wasnt good, and says this 
engineer had also said the signal from the DRE was the main problem. 
Mr M complained, but D&G maintained it wasnt responsible for any repairs.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, and said hed been put to considerable trouble doing this. 
He wants us to award out of pocket expenses and compensation for the trouble hes had 
because of D&Gs attitude. He also says that he now has to pay an additional subscription 
(to an unconnected company) if he wants the viewing service he had before he upgraded his 
subscription and equipment. Finally hes pointed out that if hed known the old equipment 
was damaged in February he wouldnt have upgraded his subscription and signed up to a 
new 18 month contract.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this will disappoint Mr J so Ill explain why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
First, I have to explain that this decision is only about what D&G did  not about what any of 
the engineers from S did or said. Ive taken into account everything in the file, including Mr 
Js statements about what engineers from S told him, even though he hasnt been able to 
get this confirmed by S.
I think its fair to say there was a problem with Mr J being able to use his DRE as he wished 
in February  because otherwise he wouldnt have asked D&G to get an engineer from S to 
check it. Ive seen D&Gs internal notes and they show S reported that it had replaced some 
connectors and his receiver  but that there was also an issue with third party equipment. 
The exact problem isnt identified, but theres a list of potential causes  which could include 
Mr Js TV, phones or internet set up amongst others.
A couple of weeks later Mr J used his D&G insurance policy to get a TV set up properly. The 
report from this says that after some adjustments were made this TV worked  and all its 
functions were operational. It goes on to say Mr J was advised to get his signal checked. 
Theres also a note that says Mr J was upgrading his subscription with S as a precaution.
I dont have any reason to think these notes dont reflect D&Gs understanding of what was 
going on  they were made at the time, and thats often the most accurate record.
D&Gs obligations under the policy mean it arranges and pays for repairs to the equipment 
its covering  which is equipment from S, TVs, tablets, digital gaming equipment and/or 
mobile phones. Theres no indication it covers other receiving equipment, which Mr J also 
has. 
I think that means D&G has done all it should under this policy. Its arranged for S to come 
out and check the equipment it provides  and also sorted out a TV that wasnt functioning 
properly. S told D&G the problems were likely down to some of the other equipment Mr J 
owns, which isnt covered on the policy. I think its reasonable for D&G to rely on what it was 
told by S  as its S thats the expert in these things, not D&G or Mr J.
I appreciate Mr J was told he should get the signal checked. But by that time hed already 
agreed to upgrade his subscription with S  and part of that included new equipment, which 
would likely sort any remaining issues out. I dont think D&G should do more than it already 
has. Nor do I think it has unnecessarily caused Mr J inconvenience  it seems to have 
arranged appointments fairly promptly even though the country was suffering unusual 
circumstances, and it responded to his requests in a timely manner.
No insurance covers every scenario, and Mr Js doesnt cover third party equipment. So its 
not D&Gs responsibility to enable Mr J to enjoy his digital subscriptions whatever the 
possible cause of problems. I dont think D&G need do more than it has.
Mr J did say if hed known there was a problem with the signal rather than any third party 
equipment he wouldnt have upgraded his subscription to S. Im afraid hell have to take that 
up with S, as D&G isnt involved in that arrangement. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman