DRN-2898040
The complaint
Ms C complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim made under her 
buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Cs neighbour carried out some renovations. After these took place, cracks appeared in 
Ms Cs property, some flooring dropped, and the majority of internal doors wouldnt close 
properly. Ms Cs neighbours builder attempted to repair the damage, but cracks continued to 
appear. 
Ms C then made an accidental damage claim under her buildings insurance policy. Fairmead 
arranged for a surveyor to carry out an inspection, and they didnt think there was any further 
movement taking place. Fairmead agreed to carry out the repairs. However, Ms C was 
concerned that further movement was taking place and wanted this to be established before 
repairs were carried out. She complained to Fairmead about this.
Fairmead didnt think it was necessary to arrange for Ms Cs property to be monitored. 
Though it accepted that its customer service couldve been better, and offered Ms C £50 
compensation for that. Unhappy with this, Ms C brought a complaint to this service. 
Whilst the complaint was with this service, we pointed out to Fairmead that Ms C had 
reported new cracks in the property. Fairmead decided to treat the claim as subsidence.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Fairmead should 
monitor the floor for any movement. She also thought it should increase the compensation 
amount to £350 as she was of the view that Fairmead ought to have acted sooner than it did. 
Fairmead didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs neighbour arranged for a firm of architects to carry out an inspection in January 
2020. They thought it was clear from the movement between the floor and walls that some 
settlement had occurred, but they said it remained to be seen whether the building had 
settled into a permanent location, or continued to move.
Fairmead arranged for a surveyor to carry out an inspection. Their report of July 2020 
confirmed there was cracking to the property, as well as evidence that the floors had 
suffered movement. The surveyor thought the cause of the movement was due to the 
deflection of the floor and walls caused by the change in support in the floors below the 
property. He said he didnt think there was still active movement occurring, and that any 
visible damage was most likely due to the poor standard of repairs to Ms Cs property (by 
her neighbours builder). Finally, he said the property would have adjusted to its new 
configuration and no further movement should be occurring. 
After Fairmead learnt of the new crack damage, it changed the claim from accidental 
damage to one of subsidence. It then arranged for a subsidence surveyor to carry out an 
inspection (Mr L) in April 2021.
Mr L didnt think there was current subsidence movement. He thought that the movement 
was almost certainly related to settlement following the removal of supporting walls in the 
below property, and therefore thered been accidental damage. Mr L said that the damage 
may well be able to be repaired, but Ms C was concerned about ongoing movement and 
therefore he thought an inspection by an engineer of the adequacy of the steel supports 
installed beneath the property, or a brief period of floor level monitoring would be advisable 
beforehand.
Mr Ls report sent to Ms C was slightly different, and recommended floor level monitoring 
take place before the repairs.
On balance, I think itd be reasonable for Fairmead to arrange for the monitoring to take 
place before the repairs. Ms C had already experienced a period of disruption when her 
neighbours builder carried out repairs, however, further cracks and problems happened 
after that. Given that Ms C and her family will need to move into alternative accommodation 
in order to allow the new repairs to take place, its understandable that Ms C wants 
reassurance that the movement has stopped before this happens.
Given that no subsidence was found, I would assume that Fairmead is no longer dealing 
with the matter as a subsidence claim, and has changed it back to an accidental damage 
claim. If it hasnt done so, then it should arrange this so that Ms C pays the appropriate 
excess. 
I agree with the investigator that Fairmead caused unnecessary delays in its handling of the 
claim. Ms C made it aware in October 2020 that new cracks were appearing, but it didnt 
address this or look into it at the time. I think if it had done so, Mr L couldve been appointed 
much earlier and the claim moved forward. I think the total compensation the investigator 
recommended of £350 is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to do 
the following:
Arrange for the floor level to be monitored to ensure theres no further internal 
movement taking place before it arranges the repairs.
Change the claim to accidental damage rather than subsidence, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Pay Ms C £350 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman