DRN-2036307
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Ms B. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1999 alongside a store credit account. Ms B 
was sold the policy was sold the PPI by phone, at some point after the account was started.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms B has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
From what we know about how AXA usually sold PPI by phone at that time, I think its 
representative would have been told to make clear the PPI was optional and to get the 
customers consent before adding it to the account. And Ms B hasnt told me anything to 
make me think AXA didnt follow its usual process with her. So I think its likely she was 
given a choice, and she decided to take the PPI.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Bs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Ms B to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Ms B clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  I dont know how 
much detail the adviser actually gave on the phone. 
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But in 
Ms Bs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I 
dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. I say this because the PPI 
could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been 
in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also, it seems that she didnt have 
significant savings to fall back on; and even if she did, she could have kept those in reserve 
for longer. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
Given that its likely she agreed in principle to taking the PPI, and so at the time presumably 
thought it worthwhile, I dont think, even with full information, its likely she would then have 
decided against taking PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman