DRN-3231124
The complaint
Mr A and Ms B complain that AXA Insurance UK plc, caused delays with their claim for water 
damage to their home. They also complain about the quality of the repairs which they say 
are below standard and they request an apology and compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
Mr A and Ms B took out a policy with AXA in 2010 and it renewed each year since.
In August 2019 Mr A and Ms Bs home suffered an escape of water and they claimed to AXA 
for the damage. AXA instructed its agents to report on the damage and dry the property. A 
few days later the report said the property needed to be stripped out first and AXA appointed 
loss adjusters to do this. AXA said it agreed to provide alternative accommodation (AA) and 
Mr A and Ms B moved in about two months after the claim incident. AXA estimated the work 
would take about four months from this point and a six-month tenancy on AA was obtained.
AXA said that during the stripping out asbestos was discovered in the kitchen ceiling and this 
made the process take longer. Then a further leak was discovered requiring additional strip 
out which was completed in November and drying completed in December 2019. Ms B 
provided a list of non-essential works at a meeting in January 2020, including removal of a 
kitchen wall and installation of a new kitchen. AXA said repairs were already underway 
upstairs, but kitchen repairs waited for Ms Bs confirmation she would pay for the non-
essential works and AXA said it told her it wouldnt extend AA for these.
AXA said Mr A and Ms Bs kitchen arrived at the end of February 2020 but was damaged 
and some measurements were wrong, and this held up the repairs. In March repairs to the 
upstairs of Mr A and Ms Bs home were complete, but there were still problems with the 
kitchen.
Ms B complained to AXA that its premature ending of their AA forced them to return to an 
unsafe house without support. She said the repairs were supposed to be done in 8-12 
weeks, but AXA failed to complete this within the timeframe and the work was poor. The 
parties agreed a cash settlement of £8,000 so Mr A and Ms B could instruct their own 
contractors to finish the work. This was paid on 5 May 2020, but Ms B said subsequently that 
£8,000 wasnt adequate and AXAs communications were poor and caused delays.  
AXA responded to the complaint in May 2020 and said it hadnt caused any unnecessary 
delays or lack of contact from its agents. AXA said if the repairs had been done to a like-for-
like basis they would have been completed within the six-month timeframe. AXA said it paid 
Ms B £25 for the delayed response to her complaint.
   
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the work that Mr A and 
Ms B wanted to do privately caused the repairs to take longer and AXA had made it clear it 
wouldnt extend AA for this reason and this was fair. He said in addition a second leak and 
removal of asbestos added to the time required. The investigator said he hadnt found any 
unnecessary delays caused by AXA and he thought the cash settlement amount was fair. 
Mr A and Ms B said the investigator didnt address any of their concerns or the evidence 
including that AXA hadnt informed them about returning home until within two weeks of the 
end of the AA contract leaving them in an unsafe environment. They said AXA gave poor 
information about the origin of a second leak and they had to be proactive in contacting AXA 
as it had managed the claim poorly. They said they had mentioned several times their 
kitchen worktop was defective and agreed extra time for the repairs and so this shouldnt 
have been used as an excuse for delays. 
The investigator said AXA had told Mr A and Ms B the works were expected to take four 
months when they moved into AA but booked the accommodation for six months and made 
it clear this wouldnt be extended. He said Mr A and Ms Bs improvements extended the time 
required and the delays werent AXAs fault. 
Mr A and Ms B remained dissatisfied with the investigators response and requested an 
ombudsman review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Ms B have raised a number of complaint points about AXA which essentially 
concern its poor handling of their claim and poor communications from it and its agents. I 
hope they wont find it a discourtesy if I dont address every one of their points, but I have 
concentrated on what I consider to be the main issues. I have seen their emails, photos and 
videos. References to AXA include its agents.
Large escape of water claims can be complex and involve a range of parties and it follows 
that there will be significant disruption and inconvenience to the policyholders. My role is to 
determine if unnecessary inconvenience or avoidable delays have been caused by the 
insurer and its agents. And to see if consumers have been treated fairly by their insurer.
Ive looked carefully at the business records of the claim and the communications between 
the parties for which records exist. From this I can see that AXAs loss adjusters suggested a 
six-month AA period to Ms B in a call in September 2019. A month later when Mr A and Ms 
B moved to AA AXA took a six-month contract on the accommodation. AXA wouldnt extend 
AA beyond the six-month timeframe it set for the repairs. Ms B doesnt think this was fair.
 
The damage from the escape of water affected Mr A and Ms Bs en-suite and kitchen. AXA 
said a leak from the radiator in the rear bedroom also caused minor damage but wouldnt 
have added to the time required for the original like-for-like reinstatement works. 
The upstairs repairs were completed first as there was little hold up from the kitchen 
problems and I havent seen any contradictory communications about this. Had like-for-like 
repairs been the only remaining task then AXAs estimate of the time required appears to be 
reasonable. And, had the repairs not been completed within this time then AXA would have 
had no alternative but to extend the AA. However, Mr A and Ms B wanted a new kitchen 
installed, a wall knocked down and other improvements such as a new shower unit. This 
was private work unconnected to the claim and so any problems or delays from this werent 
the responsibility of AXA. 
Mr A and Ms B brought their own work requirements to AXAs attention five months after 
their claim and about two months before the end of their AA. Once their own work 
requirements ran into difficulties with their new kitchen, I think it was inevitable that the repair process would be lengthened beyond the time set for their AA. From what Ive seen Im 
satisfied that this is the main reason repairs werent completed within the timeframe advised.
Mr A and Ms B said they were prematurely returned to their home from AA as the property 
was unsafe and they were unsupported. I think AXA was clear to Mr A and Ms B that their 
AA wouldnt be extended as a consequence of their private work and I dont think it was 
unreasonable of AXA to hold to this arrangement. 
I can see Ms Bs concerns expressed in calls and emails in late March 2020 and in her 
complaint to AXA on 27 March 2020 that the AA was coming to an end. Ive seen emails 
from AXAs loss adjuster to Ms B in early February 2020 about electricity use and later 
concerning the AA, in which he said, we discussed several times during this process the 
alternative accommodation arrangements and the potential implications of undertaking the 
home improvements you have elected to have done. Unfortunately, I am, as outlined at the 
time, unable to extend or cover any further alternative accommodation arrangements given 
the delay in reinstatement work is due to your decision to alter your home, rather than return 
it as was.
I can understand why Mr A and Ms B werent happy when they returned to their home in an 
unfinished state but for the reasons Ive given I havent found that this was AXAs fault or 
responsibility and it was open to Mr A and Ms B to arrange their own AA at this point. 
Mr A and Ms Bs relationship with AXAs contractor was strained as the contractor had been 
unable to complete the repairs. Mr A and Ms B had told AXA of building contractors that 
would be able to complete the work, and AXA offered a cash settlement. Agreement was 
reached on the amount of £8,000 after some negotiations and this appears to have met each 
partys requirements at the time and allowed Mr A and Ms B to control the remaining repairs 
and private work. I havent seen that this was forced on Mr A and Ms B because AXAs 
contractors simply did not want to work, as they suggest. And I havent seen any evidence 
that shows this sum was inadequate for the remaining repairs related to the claim. 
Mr A and Ms B mention periods from late October 2019 to late February 2020 when there 
was no communication from AXA. During the first two months their home was being dried 
and stripped out by AXAs agents ready for repairs and during the next two months Ive seen 
from the records that the claim was progressing with contacts and payments to contractors. 
Ms B mentions the meeting in January 2020 to discuss the repairs and their new kitchen. 
After this she says the repairs progressed slowly due to AXAs contractors not carrying out 
their work, not communicating with the kitchen supplier about the worktop and AXAs loss 
adjuster not keeping them informed. Although I think the communications could have been 
better at the start of the year, in general, I think AXA and its agents communicated 
satisfactorily with Mr A and Ms B and in line with what I would expect to see during a long-
running claim. 
As I have said, I dont think the slow progress of the repairs was AXAs fault. I can see that 
Ms B acknowledged in a call on 26 March 2020 that if her kitchen worktop was holding 
everything up then she would accept a different one from her suppliers. The situation 
concerning the delays and their causes was confirmed to Ms B by email from AXAs loss 
adjuster on 27 March 2020.
Im satisfied that AXA informed Mr A and Ms B that if the reinstatement works were 
completed on a like-for-like basis, as per their policy, the work would have been completed 
within the six-month timeframe - which is what they allowed in AA. But if not, that AA 
wouldnt be extended.In my review of the complaint, I havent found that unnecessary inconvenience or avoidable 
delays have been caused by AXA or its agents and so Im unable to uphold the complaint. I 
realise this is not the decision that Mr A and Ms B were hoping for. I sympathise with them 
for the difficult work and personal circumstances they endured during this time and I hope 
they understand the reasons I have reached this decision. If they reject it, the decision will 
be of no legal effect and they can pursue their complaint by other means if they wish. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman