DRN-3042769
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar
panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
 
What happened
In or around January 2016, Mr and Mrs T were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs T decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs T made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook.  
They said the following misrepresentations had been made:
There was a delay registering their system to receive FIT payments resulting in them 
receiving a lower feed-in-tariff (FIT) rate than promised at the point of sale; and
P didnt let them know that the FIT rate was going to be changing; and
Mr and Mrs T contacted OFGEM who let them know that it was Ps responsibility to 
let them know about the change.
In its final response letter Shawbrook said that P had spoken to Mr and Mrs T and reached 
an agreement regarding their concerns which they had accepted in full and final settlement 
of the complaint that had been raised with Shawbrook. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs T referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. They agreed that the complaint Mr and Mrs T 
had made to Shawbrook was the same complaint that had been made to P and which they 
had accepted an offer in full and final settlement. Therefore, they concluded that Shawbrook 
didnt have any further liability for this complaint under section 75.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, they said:
The system was mis-sold to them and this overrides the fact that they signed in full 
and final settlement of the complaint; and
They consider the mis-sale of the system and the acceptance of the offer two 
separate issues; and
They have provided evidence clearly showing that P knowingly mis-sold the system 
to them.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice;
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the
debtor.
As Mr and Mrs T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs T could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook. For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation 
as an untrue statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party 
which induces that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 75
As explained above, section 75 enables a consumer to claim against their credit provider for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of goods. Section 56 explains 
that the supplier acts as an agent of Shawbrook. Therefore, for the purposes of this 
complaint Shawbrook and P are the same entity.
Section 75 does not mean that a consumer can receive compensation, for the same 
complaint, from both the creditor and supplier.
Timeline
I think its helpful to detail a timeline of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs T contacted P as they were unhappy that it hadnt made them aware that they 
needed to register their system by a certain date to receive the FIT rate they had been 
promised. They said, because of Ps failure, they had lost out financially. P looked into the 
concerns that had been raised. Whilst it didnt accept that it had done anything wrong, it 
offered to pay Mr and Mrs T the difference between the FIT rate they thought they had 
agreed to and what they were actually receiving as a gesture of goodwill.
In January 2017 Mr and Mrs T accepted the gesture of goodwill from P in full and final 
settlement of their complaint.
 Mr and Mrs T complained to P again in July 2018. P explained that they didnt think they 
were liable for the difference in FIT rates and they had already made an offer as a gesture of 
goodwill offer, which Mr and Mrs T had accepted in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs T then raised the same complaint with Shawbrook in September 2018. 
Shawbrook sent its final response in the same month confirming P had made an offer to 
resolve their particular complaint about receiving a lower FIT rate than they had been 
promised, which they had accepted in full and final settlement. 
Full and final settlement
After receiving the complaint in September 2018 from Mr and Mrs T, Shawbrook contacted P 
for information about the complaint. P explained that an offer had previously been made, and 
accepted, to resolve the complaint about the FIT rate that they were receiving.
Shawbrook have provided a copy of the settlement form which Mr and Mrs T have signed;
I hereby confirm that we accept the initial sum of £251.98 along with 18 further 
payments of £125.99 to be paid annually on the 1st February as full and final 
settlement regarding my complaint logged in relation to my feed in tariff returns.
My signature below confirms acceptance of the above offer as full and final 
settlement
Im satisfied this demonstrates that Mr and Mrs T accepted the offer from P in relation to 
their complaint about receiving a lower FIT rate which they subsequently raised with 
Shawbrook.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman