DRN-3681068
The complaint
Miss B complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter has held her liable for 
a loan which she says she didnt open.
What happened
In September 2021 a loan for £3,000 was opened in Miss Bs name. The loan was paid into 
her current account and most of the funds were then transferred to her partner at the time, 
Mr P (they have since separated). The first loan payment debited Miss Bs account on 27 
October 2021.
On 19 November 2021 Miss B contacted RateSetter to say that she had not opened this 
loan. She said that Mr P had opened it in her name without her consent. Miss B confirmed 
that his parents were willing to repay the loan, but complained that it should not be showing 
on her credit file as she had not applied for it. 
RateSetter looked into Miss Bs complaint, but it felt the evidence suggested Miss B had 
applied for the loan herself, or at least been aware that it had been taken out in her name. 
So RateSetter said it would not be amending Miss Bs credit file. Miss B was unhappy with 
RateSetters response, so she referred her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. They felt that Miss Bs explanation 
for what had happened here was plausible and that the evidence did not show that she had 
taken out the loan. So they recommended that RateSetter remove any record of the loan 
form Miss Bs credit file.
RateSetter disagreed, it said that it had carried out checks to properly identify Miss B when 
the loan was opened. RateSetter also noted that the funds had been paid into Miss Bs 
current account but that she had not raised her concerns until two months later.
As no agreement could be reached this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as it is here  I have to base my 
findings on the balance of probabilities, ie. what I think is more likely to have happened in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. And with what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Miss Bs 
account of events is plausible and supported by the evidence Ive seen. So I think 
RateSetter should amend Miss Bs credit file to remove any record of this loan.
I say this because, while I appreciate that the funds were paid into Miss Bs current account, 
and I understand why that has given RateSetter cause for concern, Miss B has explained in 
detail what she thought the payment was for  Mr P had told her he was dealing in stocks 
and shares and needed to pay some money into her account  and she has been consistent 
in her testimony. And nothing Ive seen directly contradicts what shes said happened. 
Miss B has also provided copies of RateSetters contact notes regarding the account  which 
were sent to her by RateSetter  which show that the original email address and phone 
number associated with the loan were not the same as the email and phone number we 
have recorded for her, the details were changed by RateSetter when Miss B got in touch to 
dispute the loan. So while some of the information given when the loan was opened was 
accurate, its clear there were also details that were not accurate  and crucially the 
inaccurate information is the information RateSetter would use to contact the account holder 
about the loan.
Its also clear from the evidence provided that a third party has repaid the loan, and what Ive 
seen supports that this was Mr Ps parents. Its unclear why they would have done this 
unless what Miss B has said about him taking out the loan was true. 
RateSetter has commented that it would have carried out checks when opening the account 
which would have involved Miss B either sending it copies of her bank statements or using a 
service called open banking to link the loan to her current account, thereby requiring even 
more stringent security checks. But RateSetter has since said that open banking wasnt 
used to verify the application, and Ive also not seen anything to show that statements for 
Miss Bs current account were sent to RateSetter as part of the application. But even if they 
were, as I think its more likely Miss Bs partner (they were still together at the time) applied 
for the loan, its not unreasonable to also think he may have been able to get hold of 
Miss Bs bank statements. 
With all this in mind, I dont think RateSetter has done enough to show that Miss B was the 
person who applied for this loan. It follows that I dont think it is reasonable for RateSetter to 
have recorded any information about this loan on Miss Bs credit file.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for RateSetter to put things right by removing any 
information regarding this loan account from Miss Bs credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Retail Money Market Ltd 
trading as RateSetter should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman