DRN-3944242
The complaint
Miss F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions she didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
The starting position under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) is that 
Miss F is liable for payments she authorised. These explain that authorisation 
depends on whether the payment transactions were authenticated correctly and 
whether she consented to them.
Its not disputed that the disputed payments were authenticated correctly. Whether 
Miss F consented to them depends on whether she completed the agreed steps to 
make the payments.  
Its my understanding that to make the payments, Miss F wouldve needed to enter 
her card details on the merchants website and enter her PIN on Monzos app. 
Im persuaded that Miss F didnt input her details on the merchants website. Instead, 
its likely the fraudster did this after stealing her information from the phishing website 
where they tricked Miss F into sharing her details for the purposes of receiving a 
payment.  
Monzo argues, in line with its terms, that Miss F authorised the payments when she 
entered her PIN on the app. But she didnt do this with the understanding she was 
consenting to payments. Rather, she thought this was part of the process to receive 
a payment for the item she believed shed sold. 
Furthermore, the PSRs set out that a payment is regarded to be authorised if the 
payer has given consent to the execution of a payment transaction. That consent 
must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between 
the payer and its payment service provider. 
As Monzos terms allude to, entering your PIN alone isnt enough to execute a 
payment. Further steps, such as entering the card details, are needed. As set out 
above, I dont think Miss F completed these steps. Nor did she enter the PIN with the 
intention or understanding that she was authorising these payments. 
As Miss F didnt complete all the steps to make these payments, nor did she consent 
for someone else to do so, these payments are unauthorised. 
The payment information Ive seen suggest these transactions were requested online 
for ecommerce. That means theyre distance contracts  in other words, a 
transaction where neither the merchant nor the consumer are physically present. And 
Ive not been persuaded theyre excepted contracts  the payment information 
suggest these were related to an art dealer and gallery. 
This means that, in line with 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, Miss F could only be liable for 
them if she acted fraudulently. Ive seen nothing to suggest that, nor has Monzo 
suggested it. Miss F was instead the victim of a scam. 
So, in line with the PSRs, I conclude that Miss F isnt liable for these disputed 
payments and Monzo needs to put things right  by refunding her losses from the 
payments alongside interest to compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket. 
Monzo ought to have promptly refunded Miss S when she reported what happened. 
Its failure to do so unnecessarily caused her additional worry and upset. So Im 
awarding a further £150 compensation to reflect this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Fs complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Miss F the total of the unauthorised payments less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £1,910.22.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £150 compensation for Miss Fs distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman