DRN-1661410
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC, who are trading now as Barclaycard, but who were 
trading at the time as Egg, mis-sold him the PPI. For simplicity, Ill refer to the business as 
Egg for much of this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Mr C has raised a number of complaint points. Ive read and considered all the evidence on 
the file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened given 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Egg made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this 
because Ive considered what we know about how Egg sold PPI over the internet 
around this time and Ive seen internet screenshots that Egg say are representative 
of what Mr C would have seen at the time of applying for PPI. To get the cover Mr C 
would have had to select it and he would have had a choice about doing that. So it 
seems most likely that Mr C did choose it and did so knowing he had a choice to do 
so.    
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But he chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. And Ive considered that whilst Mr Cs initial sick pay was good, it dropped 
significantly after six months, so he may have struggled. Mr C told us he had some 
savings he could have relied on for a time but these were modest and apart from 
some life cover Mr C had no other means he could have relied on if he was too ill to work or lost his job. This policy could have paid out for up to 12 months if he was too 
ill to work, or if Mr C lost his job. So I think the policy would have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Barclays Bank 
Plc doesnt need to refund everything Mr C paid for it. 
But Barclays Bank Plc has already offered to give Mr C back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman