DRN-2889870
The complaint
Miss F complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mishandled her chargeback 
claim.
What happened
In August 2020, Miss F paid £410 to a removal company to deal with her move of house. In 
August 2020, Miss F opened a section 75 claim for £410. In November 2020, Nationwide 
declined to pay. The claim was reopened and settled in December 2020, when Nationwide 
agreed the claim and paid £410.
Miss F complained. Nationwide looked at the claim on the wrong basis. The claim was that 
her possessions were damaged by the removal company. Nationwide looked at it as a claim 
that a smaller truck and fewer men were employed. So  she had to contact Nationwide and 
have them reopen the claim, which they did, and it was paid in December 2020. But she had 
to spend time and take the trouble to argue her case again with Nationwide  this was 
inconvenient and shouldnt have been needed. And  the whole claim took a lot longer than 
it should have. So  the compensation offered by Nationwide wasnt enough.
Nationwide apologised. They agreed theyd made a mistake and paid compensation of £100.
Miss F brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said there was no dispute over whether 
Nationwide handled the claim properly or not  Nationwide had admitted they got that aspect 
wrong. Miss F hadnt suffered financially  it was a question of whether Nationwides offer of 
compensation of £100 was right for the distress and inconvenience caused. She considered 
the offer fair and reasonable.
Miss F asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that what happened must have been frustrating for Miss F. Nationwide  at 
first  looked at the section 75 claim on the wrong basis  that the removals company 
provided fewer men and a smaller truck. And they declined to pay that. But Ive seen Miss 
Fs claim and it was for damage to her items during the move. So, Nationwide got it wrong. 
To be fair to Nationwide, they reopened the case again and paid the claim of £410. But Miss 
F says this was inconvenient  as she had to call them and make her case to them again. 
And  the whole process took lot longer than it should have.
Nationwide apologised and offered compensation of £100 to Miss F. Miss F says this isnt 
enough. Ive thought about this. Miss F hasnt suffered a financial loss  it all comes down to 
how much is appropriate for the stress and inconvenience caused to her. Compensation is a 
subjective matter. Ive considered what this service would expect to see in these 
circumstances  and think that £100 is right for what happened here.
I appreciate that Miss F will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask 
Nationwide to do anymore here. Its not clear whether Nationwide have actually paid the 
£100 to Miss F or not  if it hasnt been paid, then I would suggest that Miss F gets in touch 
with Nationwide who will arrange for it to be paid.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman