DRN-3792391
The complaint
Mr R complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) delayed the transfer of 
his pension plan resulting in a loss. He wants compensation and an apology.
What happened
Mr R was a member of his employers Workplace pension scheme with Aegon. He says as 
funds built up, he periodically made partial transfers into an existing plan with another 
provider (HL). On 13 January 2022 Mr R requested a further partial transfer to his plan with 
HL. 
On 14 January 2022 Aegon emailed Mr R asking him to confirm the specific transfer amount 
and from what investment funds it should be realised. Mr R says he didnt see this email. HL 
also emailed Mr R asking him to confirm the transfer figure. Over the next two months Aegon 
sent several further emails requesting this information. Mr R responded on 25 March 2022 
but sent this from his work email. Aegon asked that this be sent from his personal email, and 
Mr R did so. 
On 29 March 2022 Aegon emailed saying the amount Mr R had advised was different to the 
figure HL had stated in January 2022. It asked for confirmation of the actual amount. On 1 
April 2022 Mr R raised a complaint with Aegon about the delays and told it he wanted the 
transfer dealt with urgently. It asked him to confirm the actual transfer amount. Mr R did so 
on 6 April 2022 and says the transfer was completed on 12 April 2022. Aegon didnt uphold 
Mr Rs complaint and said it hadnt made any error. But sent him £150 of vouchers as an 
apology for the delay in looking into his complaint.
Mr R referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it. 
Our investigator said Mr R hadnt responded to Aegons emails. But when he did confirm the 
necessary details, it processed the transfer in four working days, which he said was 
reasonable. He said it wasnt unreasonable for Aegon to require confirmation of the exact 
amount of the transfer and where this should be taken from. Or for security reasons for it to 
want Mr Rs instructions to come from the email address it held in its records. He said based 
on what happened there was nothing to suggest Aegon wouldnt have completed the 
transfer by 20 January 2022 if Mr R had responded to its requests for information. He said 
the only delay was in Aegon responding to Mr Rs complaint where it didnt send a final 
response until 25 June 2022 and the £150 in vouchers it sent was fair compensation for this.
Mr R didnt agree. He said both HL and he had chased the transfer between January and 
March 2022 and provided some screenshots from HLs messaging system. He said Aegons 
information requests from him were not relevant as hed placed instructions with HL, and 
he shouldnt need to reconfirm the info that had already been given.
He said the transfer hadnt been made until June 2022 and he didnt know anything about 
vouchers. He said this wasnt the first time Aegon had delayed a request for a partial 
transfer.
As Mr R doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
The role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate businesses, 
which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell Aegon or other 
businesses to change administrative procedures or impose sanctions on it even if I think 
there have been failings. What I can consider is whether a businesss mistakes caused 
someone a financial loss and/or distress and inconvenience and, if so, what the business 
needs to do to put things right.
In this case I dont think Aegon delayed the transfer. I think it processed it promptly once it 
had the information necessary. It isnt unreasonable for Aegon to require clear instructions 
which it can verify have come from Mr R himself and that is clearly what it was waiting for. 
And it issued multiple reminders to him. 
Mr R has said instructions were provided to HL and Aegon shouldnt need to query these. 
But Aegon has a responsibility to correctly process the transfer request. And from the emails 
from Aegon and the messages from HL, which Mr R has now provided, I can see that both 
were contacting him from outset, seeking to clarify the amount to be transferred. 
On 14 January 2022 Aegon emailed Mr R asked him to confirm the amount. When HL 
messaged him on 15 January 2022 it advised there was a discrepancy in the amount to be 
transferred. With initially £10,575 being entered but you reference the figure of £10,750 in 
your message and it asks him to get in touch to clarify this. It isnt clear how Mr R 
responded to this but a message from HL on 4 February 2022 says:
We received correspondence from your provider that they are awaiting a response 
from the (sic) yourself in regards to a partial instruction. We would be grateful if you 
could contact your provider to discuss this further. Once resolved please let us know 
so we can make sure your transfer is progressing.
Mr R replies on 14 February 2022 saying he has emailed Aegon. I havent seen his email 
and both Aegon and HL continued to ask Mr R to confirm he amount following this. 
Screenshots from HLs system show it was still sending action required messages to Mr R 
until 28 March 2022, when he did contact Aegon. So, it isnt clear to me why Mr R thought 
both he and HL were continually chasing up Aegon on the transfer request, when both 
Aegon and HL appear to have been waiting for him to confirm the necessary details. 
Mr R has said Aegons emails were drown by his other emails, thats unfortunate but it isnt 
Aegons fault. And he did respond to at least one of HLs messages in February 2022 and 
presumably either didnt check for further updates or just didnt respond to the messages he 
was receiving. So, I dont think it is reasonable to say Aegon delayed the transfer. It legitimately needed the correct amount to be transferred to be identified by Mr R. And that 
there was a discrepancy which needed to be clarified was also confirmed by HL. 
Mr R also says that there were problems with earlier partial transfer requests between 
Aegon and HL. Im not considering any other matters here, but if that is the case, Im 
surprised he wasnt more proactive in checking what was happening with this transfer than 
he appears to have been. 
Mr R made further points about being unaware of the vouchers being sent. Aegon advised 
these would be sent by email in its final response email to him on 25 June 2022. If he hasnt 
received these, he should contact Aegon and query it. He also says the transfer wasnt 
completed until June 2022. But from the information provided by Aegon, I can see it sent the 
transfer to HL on 12 April 2022. So, Mr R may wish to raise the matter with HL to check 
when it received the transfer.  
So, whilst I appreciate Mr Rs frustration, I dont think Aegon has treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably in processing his transfer, and it neednt do any more than it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman