DRN-2882683
The complaint
Mr G complains  that HSBC  UK Bank  Plc unfairly  declined  his claim  under  section  75 of 
the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974  ("section  75"),  for reimbursement  of losses  caused  by 
selling  on a car that he considered  had not been  supplied  in a satisfactory  quality.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr G responded to an advertisement hed seen for the sale of a used car 
by a dealership. The car was around five-years old and had a mileage of 93,000.
When Mr G visited the dealership and saw the car, he was told that although the advert 
had said it had working Sat Nav that wasnt the case. However, the salesperson said all it 
required was a SD card which could be purchased for £35 via the internet.
Mr G says he also noted the cars brakes were rusted and that on enquiry was told that 
this was due to the car standing for a while on the forecourt prior to sale but that this 
would clear up. He also says that when he test drove the car he didnt notice any problem 
with the brakes.
Mr G agreed to buy the car and used his credit card to pay £3,000 towards its total cost.
Mr G says that within only a few days he noticed the brakes were defective and took it 
to a garage. Repairs were carried out to the cars brakes and he also had the car MOT 
tested.
Mr G also says he later discovered that the SD card had to be purchased from the 
manufacturer to work and that the cost was significantly higher than the £35 quoted by 
the salesperson. He was further concerned to learn from the logbook that there had 
been a second owner of the car recorded in July 2019.
Mr G sent three emails to the dealership complaining about the car needing repairs, the 
cost of the SD card and the second owner. The dealership didnt respond to Mr G.
Mr G made a claim under section 75 to HSBC. Mr G said that the car had been 
misrepresented to him regarding the Sat Nav SD card and the number of owners and 
that it also had faults when supplied to him. HSBC said that they would deal with his 
claim within 8 to 12 weeks but later told Mr G that due to the complexity of these types of 
claims there wasnt a time-limit when looking at section 75 claims.
HSBC asked Mr G to provide evidence of his claim including an independent report to 
confirm there had been a breach of contract regarding the cars condition. Mr G 
provided HSBC with written invoices of the repairs carried out.
Mr G says he then decided to sell the car as it was losing value. He arranged to sell the 
car privately and received around £645 less than he had paid for it. He asked HSBC to 
be reimbursed the difference in price from what hed paid for the car and the price hed 
achieved selling it together with the costs of advertising the sale. He also requested to 
be reimbursed the costs of the repairs that had been carried out.
HSBC declined Mr Gs claim. It said without an independent report as to the condition of 
the car, it wasnt able to consider his claim. However, it paid Mr G £75 compensation for 
the handling of his claim as it acknowledged it had given him the wrong information about 
timescales.
Mr G was unhappy at HSBCs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that while it seemed to be 
accepted that there had been some issues with the car these appeared to be related to 
issues of wear and tear which could reasonably be expected in a car of this age and 
mileage that had been left standing for a period of time on the forecourt. He said it wasnt 
fair to expect HSBC to be responsible for issues of wear and tear as opposed to faults.
Our investigator also didnt think there had been a misrepresentation as to the SD card 
and the number of previous owners of the car.
Our investigator said he thought the £75 compensation paid by HSBC to Mr G for 
misleading him about the time scales for dealing with his claim was fair and reasonable.
Mr G disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the £75 compensation had been 
paid for providing the wrong information which had actually arisen from his second 
complaint. He said HSBC hadnt responded to his FCA complaint that he had made via 
the telephone. Mr G said he didnt think £75 had been enough as he had spent several 
hours on phone calls.
Mr G said the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality as it had required repairs to the 
brakes within three days of the purchase. He said he would have had the work done on 
the day of purchase had the garage been able to fit him in. He disagreed the issue with 
the brakes was wear and tear, he said the dealership had told him the brakes were fine.
Mr G said that he had the car pre-MOT checked and was told that the car would have 
failed the MOT if the brakes at the front had not been changed. The garage had then 
referred to the back brakes but as these did not need changing straightaway then he had 
accepted those as wear and tear. However, he considered the front brakes had been in a 
dangerous condition.
Mr G said that he had checked whether a SD from another car would work but found that 
it didnt. He had then checked with the manufacturer who told him that the SD card would 
only work if coded and one bought via the internet could cause the Sat Nav to lock 
requiring an expensive repair. This had been misrepresented to him. 
Mr G also disagreed that HSBC hadnt told him an independent report as to the condition 
of the car had been required even though hed asked. He said he hadnt been told that 
the invoice hed provided from the garage wasnt sufficient or that it would wish to inspect 
the car. Hed been told to provide evidence and so he had.
The reason Mr G said hed sold the car on was because it had started to judder and 
make a knocking noise. He said he had rejected the car within the first 30 days as he was 
entitled to under the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
As the parties didnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision 
along the following lines.
Mr G's complaint was that HSBC had declined his claim under section 75 to be reimbursed the costs incurred by firstly repairing and then selling on the car that he 
considered wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Section 75 gives a consumer 
in certain circumstances equal right to claim a refund against the supplier of goods or 
services and the provider of credit, if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by the supplier. So, my role was to decide whether HSBC had handled Mr G's 
section 75 claim fairly and reasonably.
I appreciated Mr G said he had made an earlier complaint via the telephone first, but 
looking at the chronology set out by HSBC, I saw that his claim under section 75 had 
been logged when he sent it correspondence around two weeks after hed acquired the 
car. I didnt know what was said during these calls, but I thought it would be reasonable 
that HSBC would require evidence from Mr G and something in writing before it could 
start to investigate. As Mr G was also trying to make contact with the dealership up until 
the logging of his claim by his HSBC, I didnt think there was an undue delay in HSBC 
dealing with it.
Mr G had raised issues about HSBCs handling of his complaint regarding how it had 
dealt with his section 75 claim. While I was able to look at the section 75 claim itself and 
decide whether HSBC had handled that fairly, it wasnt in my remit to look at complaint 
handling which is not a regulated activity. However, Id seen that HSBC had accepted Mr 
G hadnt received the level of service hed reasonably expect to have received and had 
awarded him £75 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience this had 
caused.
Looking at the car sale, the issues for me to decide were whether there had been a 
breach of contract due to the condition of the car and it not being of satisfactory quality 
and/or whether there had been a misrepresentation about the car that had induced Mr G 
to enter into the contract.
Dealing first with the satisfactory quality of the car, under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015, there is an implied term that when goods are supplied "the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car hadnt been brand new but around five years old with a mileage of 95,000. I 
thought a reasonable person would expect issues with wear and tear to arise with the car 
due to its use over a reasonable period of time. It also appeared from the evidence, that 
between May and October 2019 the car had been standing for some months without 
being used. I thought this period of non-use was likely to have contributed to wear and 
tear on certain items such as the brakes and suspension.
Mr G said he queried the rusty brakes with the supplying dealership when he had 
viewed the car but was reassured that they would be ok with use. He also said the 
brakes hadnt appeared to be an issue when he took the car for a test drive. However, a 
very short while later he had become concerned and arranged for the car to have a pre-
MOT check. Mr G said he was then told the car would be an MOT failure if the front 
brakes werent repaired and he had arranged for this work to be undertaken.When the car was MOTd a few days later in October 2019 it had passed with advisories 
for the rear brakes and the front suspension arm. Mr G said he accepted that wear to the 
rear brakes and suspension was something hed expected given the age and mileage of 
the car. Advisories also meant that these repairs would be required at some point, but the 
car was roadworthy.
Id seen that in January 2020, HSBC had requested Mr G provide an independent report 
on the car as part of its investigation into his section 75 claim. But Mr G had sold the car 
and as no report could be provided HSBC decided to close his claim. Mr G said he had 
supplied sufficient evidence that the car was faulty with the invoices hed provided and 
copies of the emails hed sent to the supplying dealer. However, I thought the invoices 
werent that clear as one was an estimate (for the suspension), one was undated, and 
one was handwritten, so I wasnt surprised HSBC had asked for further proof about the 
car. I couldnt reasonably say this had been an unfair request of HSBC.
But as the car had been sold, I thought it would have been fair for HSBC to then 
reconsider the evidence that had been produced. And looking at the evidence I thought 
it was more likely than not that the front brakes had required repairing to make the car 
roadworthy. I didnt think it was clear whether the suspension had been repaired as only 
an estimate had been provided so I couldnt say this fault had required immediate repair. 
And as the front brake repairs were undertaken with only a few days of Mr G acquiring 
the car I thought it was fair to say that the car hadnt been as durable as would have 
reasonably been expected by a reasonable person.
So, I thought the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to the 
condition of its front brakes. Mr G said hehad  exercised his right to reject the car within 
the first 30 days by selling it on. He said he stopped using the car as he had other 
concerns about faults the car may have had from the way it drove. Mr G wrote to the 
supplying dealer stating his wish to reject the car.
While I must have regard to the law and regulations, Im not bound by them when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable as an outcome to a complaint. And although I 
appreciated under the Consumer Rights Act if a fault arises within the first 30 days a 
consumer has the right to reject the car, I didnt think it was fair I held HSBC responsible 
for Mr G selling the car on and receiving a lower price.
This was because Mr G had arranged for the front brakes to be repaired and the car passed 
its MOT as a result and so was roadworthy. I also didnt have sufficient evidence to find that 
the car had any other serious defects so once this repair had been undertaken, I thought it 
was fair to say the car was then of satisfactory quality. Mr G also hadnt returned the car to 
the dealership but had decided to sell it on privately. I thought it was common for the private 
sales price of a car to be lower than the sales price at a dealership so the price difference of 
around £650 was to be expected. It was Mr Gs choice to sell the car on in this way.
So, I thought in these circumstances that it would be fair for HSBC to reimburse Mr G 
the cost of the repairs to the front brakes but not to reimburse the other costs he had 
raised. 
Mr G had also said that the car was misrepresented to him in respect of the Sat Nav and 
the number of owners the car had had. Looking at this part of Mr Gs complaint, I'd need 
to be satisfied that the dealer probably told Mr G something that wasn't true and that untrue statement on its own had induced him to buy the car.
Mr G had been aware the Sat Nav didnt work when he had bought the car as there was 
no SD card. The dealership had advised him a SD card could be acquired via the internet 
and there certainly were a number of websites selling SD cards for the cost stated by the 
salesperson when they spoke with Mr G. Mr G said he had been told by the manufacturer 
that he needed to purchase the card from them and it was considerably more expensive. I 
didnt have enough evidence to say that the SD cards that were offered via the internet 
wouldnt work as they said they would so I didnt think I could say the dealership had made 
a misrepresentation. 
Even if purchasing the SD card hadnt been possible for the price suggested by the 
dealership, I thought Mr G would have still bought the car as he had known the Sat Nav 
wasnt working. I thought it was reasonable to say that he had taken the chance it wouldnt 
be easily fixed when he had bought the car and was content to do so.
I appreciated Mr G had been disappointed to see there was another owner in the log 
book for July 2019 when the advert had said the car had one previous owner. But the car 
didnt appear to have been driven by this person so why they were in the log book was 
unclear. However, looking at the expected value of a car of this make, model and age I 
didnt think the number of previous owners had had an impact on the value of the car 
and I didnt think that if Mr G had been aware the car had been in someone elses name 
for a short period he wouldnt have still bought it.
Looking at the evidence I didnt think there had been a misrepresentation of the 
car by the supplying dealership that had induced Mr G to buy it.
For the reasons set out above I thought it was likely that the car had had defective front 
brakes at the point of supply and that it would have been fair for HSBC to have covered 
the costs of those repairs when Mr G had raised his section 75 claim. So, I was partially 
upholding his complaint and I was asking HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr G £297.98 for 
the supply and fitting of the front brakes as per the invoices supplied.
I appreciate Mr G felt that additional compensation was due because of the way HSBC 
had handled his section 75 claim. But I thought HSBC had been entitled to seek further 
evidence from Mr G and I couldnt say it hadnt been entitled to reach the decision that it 
had when this extra information wasnt forthcoming. So, I wasnt going to ask it to pay 
further compensation to Mr G.
Both Mr G and HSBC have agreed with my provisional view.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has asked me to reconsider my findings, but I have reviewed the evidence to 
check that I think my decision was fair. And having done so, I havent changed my view and 
Im still partially upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G has very honestly queried the amount I had asked HSBC to reimburse him as he says 
it was too high due to receiving a refund on some of the parts he had ordered to be fitted 
when repairing the brakes. Im very grateful that he has pointed this out to me, and I accept 
that the actual cost of the repairs to the brakes was £255.99.Putting things right
Im asking HSBC to reimburse Mr G £255.99 being the cost of the repairs to the front brakes.
My final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint and Im asking HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to reimburse £255.99 being the cost of the repairs to the front brakes.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman