DRN-2207169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Coventry Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy alongside a joint mortgage in 1999. 
The policy protected their mortgage repayments in the event that they couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs C mainly complain that the PPI wasnt something they wanted or needed. They 
said that they only took out PPI because Coventry Building Society told them they had to 
have it to get the mortgage they wanted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs C that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator and decided not to uphold 
their complaint. Ill explain why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs C to remember exactly what was discussed 
so long ago when they took out the policy. This means that what they say about the way 
they were sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely given the available information and the wider 
circumstances. 
I've taken into account that it says on their mortgage application form: The Society strongly 
recommends that you take out an insurance (Mortgage Payment Protection) policy to protect 
your mortgage repayments. 
I think its fair to say that the paperwork Mr and Mrs C saw wouldve made them aware that 
PPI was something Coventry Building Society thought was a good idea for borrowers.
 
But this was standard wording on a printed application form for anyone to use, so I dont 
think it likely Mr and Mrs C would have taken this to be a personal recommendation for them. 
And this isnt wording that I think wouldve suggested to Mr and Mrs C that PPI wasnt 
optional.
On their mortgage application form, Mr and Mrs C were offered the option to say whether or 
not they wished to apply for PPI. 
So although I don't know how PPI was presented or explained to Mr and Mrs C, they 
wouldve seen that it was up to them to say if they wanted to have it. And if Mr and Mrs C 
hadnt wanted PPI then they couldve marked the box saying they didnt wish to take it out. 
That box is left blank on Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application.
So, at the time, I think that Mr and Mrs C wouldve understood that PPI wasnt something 
they had to have with the mortgage - it was an option they could choose if they wanted.
Mr and Mrs C filled in their details and signed a separate PPI application form in order to 
take out cover  indicating that they wanted full accident, sickness and unemployment cover 
(from a range of options available) and that they wished to share the benefits of the policy 
equally between them. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Cs home couldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover. And taking into account everything theyve told 
us about their circumstances, it looks like the policy offered them better protection than they 
had otherwise. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs C mightve felt PPI was useful to have.
I can completely understand if theyve forgotten these details as this happened such a long 
time ago. But, based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs C decided 
they wanted the benefits that PPI offered when they took out their mortgage. 
And, on balance, I find that it was added to their mortgage account when they chose to buy 
the policy  when they could see that it was up to them to say if they wanted to take it out.
I think its likely that Coventry Building Society didnt advise Mr and Mrs C to have PPI. But it 
still had to make sure that it gave Mr and Mrs C clear enough information so they were able 
to decide for themselves if PPI was right for them. And if this didn't happen, then I have to 
think about whether this made any overall difference to Mr and Mrs C. 
Ive taken into account that both Mr and Mrs C told us that they wouldve been able to rely on 
getting 3  6 months sick pay. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to sick pay from work. This couldve been 
particularly helpful at what mightve been a difficult time if Mr and Mrs C faced extra costs as 
a result of illness or disability. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than they couldve 
relied on their employment benefits - up to 12 months per claim. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C told us theyve always had good health. 
But that wasnt something they could have guaranteed when they took out their mortgage 
and the PPI. 
This insurance was intended to provide cover in the event of the unexpected happening. 
The PPI wouldve also paid out if Mr and Mrs C became unexpectedly unemployed.  
Mr and Mrs C told us they had some savings. But if they chose not to use all their savings to 
reduce the cost of their borrowing I can see why they mightve valued a PPI policy that 
meant they wouldnt have to draw on savings just to pay their mortgage if they couldnt work. And Mr and Mrs C couldnt have been certain when they took out the mortgage that they 
could be sure theyd always have savings to rely on if they couldnt work. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs C could keep their savings secure in the long term as they 
wouldnt have been forced to use this money to pay the mortgage. 
And they couldve made repeated claims on the policy so it provided them with long term 
cover for their mortgage. 
Overall, I think the policy offered Mr and Mrs C useful benefits in their particular 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C werent affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. So, I think it 
unlikely that better information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve affected 
their decision to take out the cover.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs C knew how much PPI would cost them when they applied to take 
it out. 
But it doesnt look like keeping costs down was a priority for them given that they took out all 
the cover options offered. So they appear to have been happy to pay for the level of cover 
they selected  at the time. 
And it looks like the monthly cost wouldve been shown on their mortgage offer. It seems to 
have been affordable for them when they took it out.  
Looked at overall, its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs C still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been better 
informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
I dont think better information wouldve put them off buying PPI given the benefits it offered 
them.
So I dont find that Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result of anything that Coventry Building 
Society did wrong when it sold them this PPI. 
This means that Coventry Building Society doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs C have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. But they havent 
told me anything or sent any information that changes what I think about this complaint.
I appreciate they feel strongly about this complaint and I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman