DRN-2071383
The complaint
Mr L complains that Royal & Sun Alliance PLC (RSA) refused a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to RSA this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr L was building a property and entered into a contact with a contractor to carry out 
construction works. He took out insurance to cover him for various risks, including a Self- 
Build Professional Fees Policy underwritten by RSA, which provides legal expenses cover 
for self-build projects.
Mr L made a claim on the policy as he wanted to take legal action against the contractor for 
breach of contract, but RSA refused to provide cover. Mr L complained but RSA said he had 
to pursue the case through a legal adjudication process first before it would consider the 
claim. RSA also questioned whether Mr L was likely to win his case and recover any award 
made against the contractor, but said it wouldnt be appropriate to require Mr L to prove 
these points before he had been through the adjudication process.
When Mr L brought the complaint to this service our investigator thought it was reasonable 
for RSA to refuse cover; she said the policy required Mr L to take reasonable care to reduce 
costs and so it was reasonable to RSA to insist that he exhaust alternatives such as 
adjudication before it would provide cover.
Mr L disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says hes had legal advice 
that he can choose whether to use the court process or adjudication; he has an experts 
report supporting his case; and has a reasonable chance of success at court. So he thinks 
RSA should cover his claim. He requested an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. In the provisional decision I said:
The policy terms say a claim must have prospects of success, which it defines as at least a 
51% chance of achieving a favourable outcome. And RSA may limit the costs it will pay 
where its unlikely any award against the other party will be recovered, or where the costs 
are disproportionate to the amount claimed.
Terms like these are common in legal expenses policies. They mean insurers dont have to 
meet costs for claims that are unlikely to be successful or where the costs are too high 
compared to the value of the claim. But if Mr L can show he has at least a 51% chance of 
winning his claim, and hes likely to recover any award made, then on the face of it his claim 
should be covered.
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. RSA 
questioned whether Mr L was likely to win his case and recover any award made against the 
contractor, but it hasnt yet obtained legal advice on this. Thats because it says Mr L must 
pursue the case through a legal adjudication process first before it will consider the claim 
and it wouldnt be appropriate to require him to prove these points before hes been through 
the adjudication process.
I have considered the relevant policy terms carefully and in my judgment it would not be fair 
to apply them in this way. What the policy actually requires Mr L to do is set out in the term 
headed Reasonable Care, which says he must take all reasonable steps to prevent 
incidents that may give rise to a claim and to minimise the amount payable by Us. RSA 
says this means he must use the adjudication process and exhaust all alternative solutions 
before the policy can consider a claim, but I dont think thats the right way to approach this.
This sort of term, about keeping costs to a minimum, is also common in legal expenses 
policies. The way its usually applied is that, when pursuing their case, the policyholder must 
act reasonably and not incur costs unnecessarily. Thats entirely reasonable; it wouldnt be 
fair to ask an insurer to cover costs that are higher than they need to be, or allow someone 
to pursue their case all the way to trial if it can be resolved before then. And its in line with 
the approach the courts take, that costs should be kept to a minimum and alternative means 
of resolving a dispute should be considered before proceeding to court.
So if its possible for Mr L to resolve his case without going to court, then its reasonable to 
expect him to do that. But I dont think it means Mr L should be denied any access to cover 
at all. Hes explained that the adjudication process is something hed need advice on, he 
would potentially incur substantial costs, and its unlikely he could recover those costs from 
the other side. His solicitors have explained that, although the contract includes provision for 
an adjudication process, its not mandatory and he has the right to take legal action if he
prefers.
Mr L has had legal advice that he does have prospects of success. On that basis, hes 
entitled to cover under the policy terms, subject to the condition that, when pursing his case, 
he takes all reasonable steps to keep the costs to a minimum. That may involve using the 
adjudication process, but in my view thats a judgment to be made, taking into account the 
advice hes given about how best to pursue the case.
Looking at all the circumstances, its not reasonable for RSA to refuse to even consider his 
claim or obtain its own legal advice. I think it has applied the policy terms too strictly; Mr L 
has a duty to keep costs to a minimum when pursing his case, but thats not the same as 
saying hes not entitled to cover at all.
For these reasons, RSA should reconsider the claim not taking into account the Reasonable 
Care term at this stage. Although Mr L has had some legal advice, RSA is entitled to seek 
its own advice on the prospects of success. RSA has also referred to expert evidence. Mr L 
has obtained a report. If the legal advice is that his evidence is not enough to be used at 
court, and he needs a more detailed report, thats something he can deal with. But its a 
matter to be considered as part of the legal advice on his claim.
If the advice is that the case does have reasonable prospects then cover should be 
provided. The other policy terms would of course apply, and Mr L would have to comply with 
the Reasonable Care term when pursing his case, taking into account any advice about the 
adjudication process and whether it would be reasonable to pursue the matter to court. If, for 
example, the legal advice is that it would be better to use adjudication but Mr L insisted on 
going to court, then it would be reasonable to withdraw funding. But as Ive said, that doesnt 
mean its fair and reasonable in the circumstances here to refuse even to consider his claim.
For these reasons, my provisional view was that RSA should consider the claim, ignoring at 
this stage the Reasonable Care term, and refer the claim to panel solicitors to assess.Replies
Both parties have replied to the provisional decision. 
Mr L says hed like to reiterate that when he bought the policy, he was told having legal 
expenses cover would provide him with peace of mind, and he feels let down that when he 
needed help, he didnt get it, even though he had supportive expert and legal advice. He 
doesnt think its fair for an insurer to rely on vague wording like the "policyholder should 
exhaust all alternative solutions" since this could be interpreted to suit the insurers wishes 
and create barriers that prevent claims being paid.
RSA says if adjudication is an available option and hasnt been used, then it is a more 
appropriate course of action; its a fundamental duty to mitigate losses and minimise claims, 
and alternatives should be explored fully, but Mr L is insisting on starting litigation. It doesnt 
think he is minimising his losses and thats why the policy conditions concerning reasonable
care and necessary and reasonable fees should be considered at this stage.
RSA also says it hasnt been given a copy of the expert report Mr L has referred to, but is 
happy to obtain costs estimates for litigation and mediation once it has that report and is 
satisfied that the claim has a reasonable chance of success.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate RSAs concerns about the costs of litigation and the need to resolve things 
without going to court where possible. So if the advice is that adjudication is the best way to 
proceed, its reasonable to expect Mr L to follow that advice. But as I said in the provisional 
decision, I think thats a matter for legal advice. Im pleased to note that RSA will obtain 
costs estimates for litigation and mediation once it has seen the expert advice and is 
satisfied the claim has prospects.
In these circumstances, it remains my view that the appropriate way to proceed is for RSA to 
consider the claim and obtain legal advice on the prospects of success. If Mr L has any 
evidence he wishes the solicitors to take into account (including any expert advice) then he 
can provide that to RSA for the solicitors to consider.
If the advice is that the claim does have prospects of success, no doubt the solicitors can 
also consider the costs of the alternative options. And if the legal advice is that the 
appropriate way to proceed would be though adjudication but Mr L insisted on going to court, 
then it may be reasonable to withdraw funding.
Putting things right
To put things right, RSA needs to consider the claim and obtain legal advice on the 
prospects of success, as set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
to reconsider the claim as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman