DRN-2439279
The complaint
Ms S complains about a disputed ATM withdrawal which she says she did not make.  She 
would like the money to be refunded and to be compensated by Barclays Bank UK PLC for 
its poor customer service.
What happened
Ms S complained about an ATM withdrawal which left her account on 17th September 2019 
at 3.13pm.  She said she had attempted to withdraw £200 from that ATM but it had not been 
dispensed.  She had waited, and then went inside the branch to try another ATM.  This time 
the withdrawal was successful.  Both ATMs belonged to bank L.
When Ms S saw her statement, which was received on 1st October, she noted that not only 
had the first withdrawal left her account  but it was for a sum of £500. She complained to 
Barclays on the same day.
There was some confusion in logging and dealing with Ms Ss complaint.  She was told by 
staff in branch that she would get her money back.  Customer representatives on the phone 
told her she needed to speak to L instead  and then her complaint was closed without being 
resolved.  However, Barclays did eventually apologise for providing her with incorrect 
information.  It also acknowledged there was a delay in dealing with her complaint.  It 
rejected her complaint in relation to the disputed withdrawal but paid her £100 for the service 
aspect of her complaint.
Ms S was not happy with this response, so she came to this service.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided by Barclays and by bank L.  She (the 
investigator) did not think she could ask Barclays to do anymore.  She explained this to Ms 
S.  She explained that the evidence from the ATM machine didnt show any irregularities in 
the balance which could account for the disputed ATM withdrawal.  It showed the £500 had 
in fact been requested and dispensed when Ms S had used the ATM.  If there had been any 
issues, this service would have expected to see the ATM not balancing, issues with other 
transactions (both before and after Ms S used the machine) or some notes being left in a 
separate box  a purge box - which would indicate they had not been dispensed properly.  
But we hadnt seen any of these issues.
The matter was then passed to me for a decision.
I came to a different conclusion than that of the investigator.  I wrote, with a provisional 
decision, to both Ms S and Barclays to explain why I would be upholding this complaint and 
allowed both parties the opportunity to make further submissions.  Ms S agreed with my 
provisional decision, but Barclays did not.  It relied on the evidence provided to show that the 
money was in fact dispensed by the ATM and therefore, was correctly debited from Ms Ss 
account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further submissions  but Im afraid Im not persuaded to change my 
provisional decision.
The evidence in this case is finely balanced and there is some evidence in support of the 
ATM working on the day in question.  But we have not seen all the evidence we would 
expect to see, and I remind myself that it was this service who obtained the evidence we do 
have from L.  Barclays had failed to provide very little in support.
My starting point is that Ms S says she did not request £500 and certainly did not receive 
that amount.  I have no reason to doubt what she says.  She explains how she had to use a 
second ATM to withdraw the £200 she had wanted in the first place.
The evidence supports what Ms S says.  There is evidence to show she used an alternative 
ATM just minutes after the disputed transaction. On balance, I dont think she would have 
needed to do this if the first ATM had in fact dispensed the money she needed.
I have also taken account of the fact that Ms S complained to Barclays as soon as she 
received her statement  so the first time she says she became aware of the disputed 
transaction.
The journal role obtained from L shows there was a successful transaction just before and 
just after the disputed transaction which is the subject of this complaint. It also shows that a 
receipt was issued following the transaction.  Although there is no documentary evidence to 
support this, L confirmed in an email that the ATM balanced.
In fact, what L told this service was that it had taken the evidence of the ATM balancing from 
the relevant forms.  It would send these forms to this service in due course, but they never 
arrived.
This service would also expect to see evidence from a purge box.  That is, a box which 
essentially catches all those notes which are not successfully dispensed from the ATM.  This 
has never been provided.
In cases such as this, it is for Barclays to show the money was dispensed on that day  but I 
dont think it has done enough.  On balance, I think it would be a fair and reasonable 
outcome for Barclays to refund the £500 debited from Ms Ss account as I dont think she 
received it.  I think the £100 already offered for the poor service is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must refund the £500 to Ms S, along with interest at a rate of 8% 
from the date of the transaction to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman