DRN-4189491
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Revolut Ltd registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In summer 2022, Mr N received and passed on £300, which was later reported as being the 
proceeds of a scam. He sent it to an individual on another continent, and also sent them 
substantial sums of his own money.
Revolut did not investigate things with Mr N. It closed his account and registered a marker 
against him at CIFAS. It also transferred £300 of Mr Ns own money to the sending bank.
Mr N came to our service. He explained that hed signed up to a crypto trading website and 
was contacted by a scammer promising large profits. He sent them his own money, but was 
told that before he could receive his crypto he needed to help them with some transfers. He 
was told the scammer had a friend working in blockchain whod receive the money, sort out 
the tax, and refund Mr Ns original investment along with doubling or tripling his money. The 
scammer also convinced Mr N to buy vouchers and send them the codes, in order to pay for 
the friends service. Mr N said he thought the person he was speaking to was honourable, 
and didnt question what was really going on. He didnt understand that moving on money 
could be fraudulent. He only realised it was a scam when he spoke to his own friend about it. 
He explained hed lost thousands of pounds of his own money.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, as they felt Mr N should have been more 
vigilant, and because they didnt yet have evidence of what had been said. 
Mr N asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh. He sent his call and message history 
with the scammer, along with screenshots of where hed forwarded the fraudulent funds, and 
evidence of him sending the scammer his own money and the voucher codes.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr N and Revolut a provisional decision on 16 May 2023, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Revolut 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show that it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported to the authorities.
Importantly, Revolut needed to investigate things first, before adding the marker. CIFAS has 
guidance for cases such as this, which says: given that consumers can act as a money 
mule unwittingly it is required that members provide consumers the opportunity to explain 
the conduct before filing to the National Fraud Database. It goes on to say that consumers 
should be given sufficient time to respond before making a submission to the fraud 
database, and that businesses should try more than one contact method.
However, as far as I can see Revolut did not investigate things with Mr N at the time or 
gather any detailed testimony or evidence from him. This is concerning. CIFAS markers can 
have severe effects, and must not be added without serious consideration. Revolut should 
know that both CIFAS and our service expect it to have investigated things with Mr N before 
adding this marker.
As Revolut didnt investigate things with Mr N at the time, I dont have any contemporaneous 
testimony to compare his current testimony to. And its difficult to see how Revolut could be 
satisfied that Mr N intentionally aided in fraud without properly looking into the matter first. 
So while I accept that Revolut may have had grounds to be suspicious or concerned, I dont 
think it fulfilled the criteria of the evidence being so rigorous that it could confidently report 
Mr N to the authorities.
What Mr Ns told us is plausible, and fits with known methods of scams. Its backed up by 
the screenshots and chat logs hes sent us, showing that he really did send the scammer his 
own money as well as the money he was told to forward. I can see that the scammer 
referred to speaking with clients, promised Mr N hed get his money back and more, and 
made excuses for issues such as all this is happening because of new system updates at 
the database. It looks like Mr N really thought he was dealing with crypto, and was being 
scammed himself  theres no indication that he was knowingly aiding in fraud.
I can see that the fraudulent funds were all sent to an individual in another continent  the 
same individual that Mr N sent his own money to. As far as I can see, Mr N did not benefit 
from the fraud himself  in fact, he seems to be another victim of the fraud. Based on the 
evidence at hand, Mr N really did appear to not understand what was actually going on.
Mr Ns account had been open for quite some time before this incident, and it looks like it 
was otherwise a genuine account. 
Lastly, Ive not seen anything which satisfies me that Mr N knew he was helping to pass on 
the proceeds of fraud.
So based on what Ive seen, I currently think its most likely that Mr N was an unwitting 
participant in passing on fraudulent funds. I certainly find that Revolut did not have enough 
evidence to record a CIFAS marker against Mr N, not least given its lack of investigation at 
the time. It follows that I currently think the marker must be removed.Ive also considered whether Revolut should have debited £300 from Mr Ns account to 
return it to the sending bank. While there are terms about returning mistaken payments, 
I find that those dont apply here  as this wasnt an issue of a payment being made by 
accident, but a scam payment. I also accept that, generally speaking, banks should try to 
return money that was sent because of a scam. But before doing so, the receiving bank 
must first investigate and find out whether the recipient was acting fraudulently or not. While 
Revolut had an indemnity from the sending bank, thats just a promise between two banks  
it doesnt allow a bank to debit a customer if they otherwise shouldnt.
Had Revolut investigated properly here, I think it would have become clear that Mr N was a 
victim of the scammer himself and was not intentionally committing fraud, and that hed 
already forwarded the £300 on to the scammer. So Revolut did not have sufficient reason to 
take £300 of Mr Ns own money and transfer it to the sending bank. And it did so without 
Mr Ns consent  meaning this payment would normally be considered unauthorised. It 
follows that I currently think Revolut needs to reimburse Mr N for the £300 it debited, and 
compensate him for the time hes been without his money.
Ive then thought about how Revolut closed the account. In much the same way that Mr N 
can broadly choose who he banks with, Revolut can broadly choose who banks with it. It 
closed the account under the terms and gave the appropriate notice. And Mr N said in his 
correspondence with Revolut that he was planning on closing the account anyway. So I dont 
think Revolut did anything substantially wrong there.
Lastly, Ive thought about the trouble and upset that Revolut caused Mr N here. I understand 
that Revolut caused Mr N considerable distress and upset by treating him as a fraudster 
without investigating properly first, not least as it seems he was actually a victim of fraud 
himself. Hes had to put quite a bit of effort into sorting this matter out, and I understand hes 
had issues holding a bank account or getting finance for many months because of the 
marker. I can see he was caused some real frustration by Revoluts poor communication and 
its repeated refusal to deal with him constructively. That needs to be put right too. Taking 
into account the impact that this has had on Mr N and our guidelines for compensation, 
I currently think Revolut needs to pay Mr N a further £400 compensation.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
13 June 2023. Mr N didnt add anything further. Ill talk about Revoluts reply below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Revolut pointed out that Mr N had once referred to 
driving lessons, and that the scam victim from the sending bank thought they were paying 
the DVLA for a driving licence. It therefore suggested that Mr N might have been trying to 
buy an illegal driving licence, which would mean he was involved in fraud. Revolut asked us 
to look into that further.
I dont find this to be persuasive, nor very relevant. Just because Mr N and the other victim 
mentioned driving, it does not follow that Mr N was trying to illegally buy a licence.I cant see that Mr N described this as a driving lessons scam, as Revolut has now 
claimed. Revolut asked Mr N which documents were compromised during the fraud, and he 
replied: driving lessons  seemingly a misspelling of driving licence. That doesnt mean 
he was trying to buy a licence; it would mean he was worried his licence was compromised. 
I can see that as part of the scam, Mr N was asked to upload his ID, and he did so.
Similarly, the other scam victim was trying to pay the DVLA, and their payment was 
intercepted. So while they were trying to buy a licence, they were trying to do so through the 
legitimate channel. There is no indication that they were trying to buy an illegal licence  in 
fact, the report states the opposite.
Revolut felt there wasnt sufficient evidence of an investment scam. But we have Mr Ns 
clear and plausible testimony, which fits with how these scams work. The evidence he sent 
shows that he really did send the scammer his own money, the scammer referred to 
speaking with other clients and Mr N getting his money back and more, and the scammer 
made excuses for payment issues such as all this is happening because of new system 
updates at the database. Importantly, the onus was on Revolut to robustly evidence that 
Mr N knowingly moved on the proceeds of a scam. The onus was not on Mr N (or our 
service) to definitively prove something else happened. Revolut failed to evidence its original 
allegation, and has not presented any solid evidence which substantiates its latest one.
So based on the evidence and the balance of probabilities, I do not see a reasonable basis 
to find that Mr N was trying to buy illegal documents, and I have not found good reason to 
look into that further. And Ive certainly not seen anything which satisfies me that Mr N knew 
he was passing on the proceeds of fraud. But it does seem both likely and plausible that 
Mr N was victim to an investment scam here.
Further, even if I were to conclude that Mr N was trying to buy an illegal licence, its not 
particularly relevant in this case. This case is about whether Revolut was justified or not in 
registering this CIFAS marker against Mr N and taking his money, based on its assertion that 
he knowingly passed on a scam victims money. Its not about whether Mr N was trying to do 
some other, unrelated illegal thing in the process. Revolut cannot impose CIFAS markers on 
customers for something it cannot robustly evidence they did, just because it loosely 
suspects the customer might have been doing something else illegal. And Revolut certainly 
cannot take customers own money away on such a basis.
Revolut suggested it would be unfair to reward Mr N with compensation if he was actually 
trying to do something illegal. Again, its worth reiterating that theres no substantial evidence 
here which shows Mr N was trying to buy an illegal licence, and the evidence at hand points 
to Mr N in fact being the victim of fraud. But even if I were to assume that Mr N tried to buy a 
fake document, it doesnt necessarily follow that I could not tell Revolut to compensate him. 
Compensation is not a reward, its there to try to put right the non-financial damage the 
business caused by the things it did wrong. As a reminder, Revolut:
Disregarded its obligations and failed to carry out a reasonable investigation;
Subjected its customer to a highly impactful fraud marker without a proper basis, 
when it looks like the customer had actually been defrauded themselves;
Took its customers money without consent and without any proper mandate or 
entitlement to the funds; and-
Repeatedly declined to deal with its customer constructively.Even at this late stage, Revolut has continued to make unfounded suggestions about its 
customer without providing solid substantiating evidence.
So having reconsidered the case, I have still found that Revolut handled this matter 
concerningly poorly. From what I can see, it was not justified in registering this marker, in 
taking Mr Ns money, or in the way it treated him. It follows that this needs to be put right. 
Putting things right
I direct Revolut Ltd to:
remove any fraud markers it registered against Mr N regarding this situation;
reimburse Mr N for the £300 it debited without his consent;
pay simple interest to Mr N on that £300, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable 
from the date it was debited until the date its returned to him. This is to compensate 
Mr N for the time he didnt have his money.
pay Mr N £400 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Revolut to take off tax from this simple interest. Revolut must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint, and direct Revolut Ltd to put things right in the way I set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman