DRN-4141469
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money they lost when they 
were the victims of a scam.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr and Mrs R say they received an email with an advert where a 
number of celebrities discussed investing online. As they were interested in making an 
investment, Mr and Mrs R say they then looked online themselves, came across an 
investment company they thought looked professional and filled in an online enquiry form.
They then received a phone call from someone who said they worked for the investment 
company, who talked them through the trading platform they offered and how to make trades 
and withdrawals. And as Mr and Mrs R were happy to proceed, they then made a number of 
payments from their HSBC account to the investment company, as instructed to by the 
caller. Ive set out the payments they made, as well as some credits they received from the 
investment company, below:
Date Details Amount
20 September 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £2
24 September 2020 Credit from 1st exchange £2 credit
25 September 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £2
30 September 2020 Credit from 1st exchange £2 credit
3 October 2020 2nd cryptocurrency exchange £2
7 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £2
8 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £101
8 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £6,000
9 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £4,000
9 October 2020 Credit from 1st exchange £4,000 credit
9 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £2,000
9 October 2020 Credit from 1st exchange £2,000 credit
9 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £4,000
9 October 2020 Credit from 1st exchange £4,000 credit
10 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £4,000
14 October 2020 Credit from 1st exchange £200 credit
14 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £10,000
15 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £10,000
16 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £10,000
19 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £10,000
26 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £10,000
27 October 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
4 November 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £10,000
5 November 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £10,000
6 November 2020 1st cryptocurrency exchange £5,000
8 December 2020 Credit from 1st exchange £800.87 credit
8 December 2020 Credit from 1st exchange £80 credit
Unfortunately, we now know the caller and the investment company were a scam.
The scam was uncovered when Mr and Mrs R were told by the investment company that 
their trading account was in danger of entering a deficit. They were then told they would 
have to pay 10% of the amount they had already invested in order to recover their account, 
which made them suspicious. And when the investment company then became rude and 
unprofessional, Mr and Mrs R realised they had been scammed and reported the payments 
they had made to HSBC.
HSBC investigated but said Mr and Mrs R had made the payments out of their HSBC 
account to other accounts in their names, before then sending money to the scammers. So 
they didnt agree to refund the money Mr and Mrs R had lost. Mr and Mrs R werent satisfied 
with HSBCs response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought HSBC should have identified 
that Mr and Mrs R were at risk of fraud as a result of some of the payments they were 
making, and so intervened. But they also thought it would be fair for Mr and Mrs R to bear 
some responsibility for their loss too. So they recommended HSBC refunded 50% of the 
money Mr and Mrs R had lost, from the ninth payment they had made onwards. HSBC 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did HSBC do enough to protect Mr and Mrs R?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Mr and 
Mrs R accept they made the payments here. So while I recognise they didnt intend for the 
money to go to scammers, they did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in 
law is that HSBC was obliged to follow their instructions and make the payments. So Mr and 
Mrs R arent automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Mr and Mrs R were 
potentially at risk of fraud as a result of these payments.The first payments Mr and Mrs R made here werent for what Id consider to be particularly 
large amounts and they didnt leave the balance of the account at particularly unusual levels. 
There were also gaps of a number of days between some of the payments, which would 
make any pattern or connection between them more difficult to identify, and it wasnt unusual 
for payments of what Id consider to be similar amounts to be made out of the account. So I 
think its reasonable that HSBC didnt identify a risk of fraud as a result of these first 
payments.
But once Mr and Mrs R tried to make the ninth payment here, for £4,000 on 9 October 2020, 
I think HSBC should have identified a risk. This payment was the third payment Mr and 
Mrs R had made to the cryptocurrency exchange that day. It was also the third day in a row 
Mr and Mrs R had made payments to the cryptocurrency exchange, the total amount they 
had sent to the cryptocurrency exchange in the past few weeks was now a significant 
amount, and the amounts they had been sending were increasing each day  which all 
matches a pattern of payments often seen in scam cases. So I think HSBC should have 
identified that Mr and Mrs R were at risk of financial harm from fraud as a result of this ninth 
payment and intervened to carry out additional checks before allowing it to go through.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks HSBC should do or the questions it should ask. 
But banks should take steps designed to protect their customers from the risk of financial 
harm. And, in these circumstances and given the pattern of payments, I think it would be 
reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the payment 
and then follow-up questions about the investments Mr and Mrs R thought they were 
making.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs R would have lied or tried to mislead HSBC if 
they were asked about the payments. So I think its likely they would have told HSBC the 
payments were for investments they were making. I think HSBC should then have asked 
further questions about the investments, such as what they were investing in, where they 
had found out about the investment and whether anyone was helping them with it. And I 
think Mr and Mrs R would then have told HSBC they were investing in currency exchange 
and cryptocurrency, had found out about the investment company online and were being 
guided through making the payments by someone from the company. And as this fits the 
pattern of common cryptocurrency investment scams, I think HSBC should then have 
warned them that they were likely the victims of a scam.
HSBC has said Mr R has professional knowledge and experience of investments, and so its 
advisors wouldnt have been able to provide any more guidance or information than he 
would already have been aware of. Its suggested he would have been aware of how to 
confirm any potential investment was genuine and had already chosen to proceed despite 
this. So it doesnt think any intervention it could have made would have stopped Mr and 
Mrs R from carrying on with the payments to the investment company.
But Mr Rs professional experience doesnt appear to be related to this particular kind of 
investment. And, in any event, I still think HSBCs guidance would have carried some weight 
with Mr and Mrs R. So if HSBC had warned them that their circumstances fitted a pattern of 
common cryptocurrency scams, warned them about common tactics scammers use and 
given them some advice on how to avoid scams  such as trying to withdraw all their funds 
or checking the investment company was registered with the FCA  I think Mr and Mrs R 
would have realised this was likely a scam and wouldnt have made any further payments.
So if HSBC had done more to protect Mr and Mrs R, as I think it should have, I dont think 
they would have made this ninth payment or any of the later payments. And so I think HSBC 
should refund the money they lost as a result of this scam, from the ninth payment onwards. And as Mr and Mrs R have now been without this money for a period of time, I think HSBC 
should pay them compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date of the 
payments until the date they are refunded.
Should Mr and Mrs R bear some responsibility for their loss?
Ive also considered whether Mr and Mrs R should bear some responsibility for the loss they 
suffered. And while I appreciate this was a sophisticated scam where they spoke to the 
scammer frequently and were given a trading platform where they could monitor their 
investment, I think there were a number of things about what was happening or what they 
were told that should have caused Mr and Mrs R significant concern.
While Mr and Mrs R say they looked at the investment companys website and online 
reviews for it, they dont appear to have done any further checks into who the company was 
or whether the person they then spoke to was connected to the company. They also dont 
appear to have been sent any paperwork relating to the services the company was providing 
them or the investments they were making.
Mr and Mrs R also dont appear to have a clear understanding of how the investments they 
were supposedly making worked, what exactly they were investing it, how the returns were 
generated or why the payments into the trading platform needed to be made in 
cryptocurrency. And, particularly given the amount of money they ultimately paid into the 
investment, I think its reasonable to expect them to have checked and understood these 
things before going ahead.
For the later payments, Mr and Mrs R were also told they had to pay more money in before 
they could withdraw the profits they had been making. But it doesnt appear they were told 
about this requirement before investing, and this isnt how genuine investment would work. 
So I think this should have caused them significant concern about whether what they were 
being told was true.
So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs R to bear some responsibility for 
the loss they suffered.
And so I think both HSBC and Mr and Mrs R should bear some responsibility, and it would 
be fair for HSBC to refund 50% of the money Mr and Mrs R lost, from the ninth payment 
onwards.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to:
Refund Mr and Mrs R 50% of the money they lost, from the ninth payment onwards  
totalling £41,459.56
Pay 8% simple interest a year on that refund, from the date of the payments until the 
date of the refundUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman