DRN-2567864
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Toyota 
Financial Services (UK) Plc trading as Toyota Financial Services (TFS) wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
Mrs B entered into a hire purchase agreement in February 2019 to acquire a used car. She 
says that the media system wasnt working from the outset and despite repair attempts the 
issues continued. Although the issue was resolved in July 2020, Mrs B says further issue 
then arose and she has lost faith in the car. She says she had previously asked to reject the 
car and this should have been allowed. She still wishes to reject the car. 
TFS says that Mrs B accepted repairs to the car and these took place under warranty. It 
says Mrs B arranged the repairs and was provided with a courtesy car. It says the car has 
been repaired and based on the circumstances of this case it didnt accept that Mrs B should 
now be allowed to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said Mrs B first reported the issue with the multi 
media system in February 2019 and so she accepted that the issue was present from the 
point of supply. She said that there had been several failed attempts to fix the issue with a 
claim under warranty for a replacement audio unit in January 2020 and again in March 2020. 
There was a claim for rewiring in July 2020 and she thought the issues raised were related. 
While she noted that Mrs B had confirmed that the multi media system was now working our 
investigator thought, given the failed repair attempts and the length of time the issue was 
ongoing, Mrs B should be allowed to reject the car. 
Our investigator noted that Mrs B had use of the car and had a replacement vehicle while 
her car was in for repair but thought it fair she was refunded 10% of her payments for the 
loss of enjoyment from the start of the agreement to July 2020 when the issue was repaired. 
She also thought Mrs B should be paid £400 for the trouble and upset she had been caused.
TFS didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that the repair carried out in July 2020 
wasnt related to the issues with the media system that Mrs B had raised previously and that 
the issue addressed in July 2020 wasnt present at the point of supply. It said Mrs B had 
agreed and booked the repairs that had taken place and these had resolved the issue. It 
also reiterated that Mrs B was kept mobile while repairs were being carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider each complaint based on its individual merits. I take the relevant legislation into 
account, but my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the unique 
circumstances of the complaint. 
Mrs B acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with TFS. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), TFS can in certain 
circumstances be liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the cars age and mileage and 
includes the need for the car to be sufficiently durable.
At the time of acquisition, Mrs Bs car was three years old and had been driven around 
30,000 miles. While some wear and tear would be expected it is reasonable that Mrs B 
would expect the car to be free from faults at the outset. Mrs B noted issues with the media 
unit from the start. I can see from the service history that on 1 March 2019 there is a note 
saying a new unit is required. Mrs B has said that several repair attempts were made but 
these were unsuccessful.
Given the issue was noticed at the outset and a new unit was found to be needed, I find it 
reasonable to accept that the media unit was faulty at the point of supply and so the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. When a fault is identified within the first 30 days, under CRA 
2015, consumers can have a short term right to reject the car. However, in this case Mrs B 
accepted the offer of repairs and had these been successful I think this would have been a 
reasonable remedy.
Unfortunately, the issue with the media unit wasnt resolved. The service history records a 
new unit being required in September 2019. I can see that in October 2019, Mrs B said that 
she wished to reject the car due to the issues she had experienced. If repairs are agreed, as 
I accept initially happened in this case, the consumer still has a final right to reject if the 
repairs arent successful. As Mrs B asked to return the car, I think that it would have been 
reasonable to have considered her request at this stage. However, the car wasnt rejected 
and I can see further repairs were arranged.
The audio unit and speakers are recorded as having been replaced under warranty in 
January 2020. However, this still didnt resolve the issues and the audio unit and speakers 
were replaced again in March 2020. While these repairs were undertaken under warranty 
and so at no cost to Mrs B I do not think it was reasonable that Mrs B had to provide so 
many opportunities for repair. I appreciate she may allowed further repairs to be undertaken 
but I do not find that this means she didnt still have reason to reject the car.
Following the replacement of the audio unit and speakers in March 2020, there were still 
issues and rewiring took place in July 2020. There has been conflicting evidence about 
whether this issue was related to the issue Mrs B had previously raised, however having 
looked at everything provided, as it appears the rewiring was needed to resolve the issue 
that Mrs B had with the audio unit, I find it reasonable to accept it was related. Even if this 
wasnt the case, as Mrs B had provided several opportunities for repair before July 2020 and 
these hadnt fully resolved the issues that were present from the outset, I think it would have 
been fair that she could have rejected the car at that time.
I understand that following the July repairs the issue with the media unit was resolved. Mrs B 
then raised further issues with the car, but it isnt clear these were related and whether they 
were due to faults present from the point of supply. However, I appreciate that lights coming 
on the dashboard after the amount of time the car had been in for repairs would have been 
upsetting for Mrs B.
Overall, I think the issues Mrs B raised at the outset showed the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. While she initially accepted repairs, these werent successful. She asked to return 
the car in October 2019 and while I appreciate that further repairs took place, I think it would 
have been reasonable to have considered her request to reject. As the repairs in January 
and March 2020 didnt fully resolve the issues, I think Mrs B had the right to reject at this time. So, while further repairs took place, I can understand why Mrs B had lost faith in the 
car and wished to reject it even after the media unit had been repaired.
In this case, given the number of repair attempts that took place and that Mrs B had asked to 
reject the car after the first few repair attempts, I think the fairest resolution is for Mrs B to 
now be allowed to reject the car. Her agreement should be cancelled with nothing further 
owing and her deposit refunded along with interest.
Mrs B has had use of the car and while the car was in for repair, she was provided with 
alternative transport, therefore I find it reasonable that she remains liable for the monthly 
payments. However, given the issues she experienced with her car and that she didnt have 
a fully working multimedia unit from the outset I think it fair that she is refunded 10% of her 
monthly payments from the start of the agreement until July 2020 when this issue was 
resolved to reflect the loss of enjoyment.
Mrs B has also needed to return the car on several occasions and been caused trouble and 
upset by the issues she experienced. Because of this I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that she is paid £400 compensation.
Putting things right
Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc trading as Toyota Financial Services should:
allow Mrs B to reject the car, cancel her agreement with nothing further owing and 
collect the car at no cost to Mrs B;
refund Mrs B the deposit she paid on the agreement with 8% interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse data relating to the agreement from Mrs Bs credit file; 
pay Mrs B £400 compensation for the trouble and upset she has been caused by the 
issues with her car and the replacement vehicles;
refund 10% of the monthly instalments up to July 2020 to reflect the loss of 
enjoyment of not having a working multi-media unit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc trading 
as Toyota Financial Services should take the actions set out above in resolution of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021. 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman