DRN-2534221
The complaint
Ms W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave her poor advice when she asked about porting 
her mortgage. It didnt tell her it would be cheaper to repay the mortgage, including the early 
repayment charge (ERC), rather than continue to pay interest.
What happened
Ms W took out an interest only mortgage in 2016 with a nine-year term. She intended to 
repay the mortgage from the sale of a second property. Ms W took out a fixed interest rate 
product that applied until mid-2021. An ERC was payable if she repaid the mortgage during 
this time. 
In late 2018 Ms W wanted to move to a smaller property and contacted Lloyds about porting. 
Ms W says she has since found out that the ongoing interest payments were more 
expensive than the ERC. She says Lloyds mortgage adviser should have told her this.
Ms W says she could have paid off the mortgage in November 2018. She says Lloyds 
should refund interest payments from then to the date the mortgage was repaid.
Our investigator said Lloyds gave advice based on what Ms W told it. She said Lloyds 
followed its usual process when it dealt with Ms Ws porting request and it hadnt acted 
unfairly. 
Ms W didnt agree. She said Lloyds adviser knew she wanted to save money and should 
have told her it would be cheaper to repay the mortgage, even with the ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W met with a Lloyds mortgage adviser in October 2018 and June 2019 to discuss porting 
her mortgage product to another residential property. Lloyds says this discussion would have 
been about its lending and porting criteria, and whether Ms Ws porting application would 
meet its criteria. The mortgage adviser wouldnt have offered broader financial advice.
Ms W says the mortgage adviser knew shed be able to repay the mortgage because she 
was downsizing. And Lloyds would have known about the money she inherited when it was 
paid into her account with Lloyds in November 2018. 
Ms W says the mortgage adviser should have told her it would be cheaper to repay the 
mortgage. She says this is a simple comparison between the cost of the ERC and the 
interest payments. I understand her point. But there is always a cost when borrowing, and 
Ms W knew she was paying interest on her mortgage loan.
Ms W says while she was aware of the monthly payments, these werent presented as a 
total for comparison with the ERC. However, Ms Ws monthly payments were almost all 
interest. If she was trying to decide whether to repay her mortgage, or work out what the 
cheapest option was, it would have been straightforward to multiply the monthly payments to 
see what the interest costs were over a particular period. 
If Ms W was considering repaying the mortgage, she could have asked about this, and 
whether it was cheaper than keeping the mortgage. I do appreciate what Ms W has said, 
that she hadnt realised the ERC might be less than the ongoing interest costs, so she didnt 
think to ask about it. 
But equally, I have to take into account that the purpose of Ms Ws meeting with the 
mortgage adviser was to discuss porting when she moved house. Lloyds has said it isnt 
usual or appropriate for their advisers to offer financial advice, such as whether a customer 
should use any available funds to repay their mortgage. Lloyds says this is because the 
mortgage adviser wouldnt know if it would be better for the customer to use the money for 
something else. Even if the mortgage adviser knew Ms W would have funds available when 
she received the money from the inheritance or downsized, they wouldnt have known if she 
had other plans or uses for the money. 
I think Ms W had enough information to compare the relative cost of repaying or keeping her 
mortgage, and I dont think Lloyds misled her about this. Ms W didnt repay her mortgage in 
November 2018. She had the use of the funds until she did repay the mortgage. I dont think, 
in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to refund the interest she paid 
while the loan was outstanding.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman