DRN-1819226
 
The complaint
Mr O is complaining about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc's decision not to renew his 
motor insurance policy with him as the insured driver.
What happened
Mr O leases a motability car which was insured through RSA. In June 2019 RSA told him it 
would no longer insure him as a driver of the car, although it could still offer insurance for the 
car with someone else as the insured driver. It said this was because of the frequency and 
cost of the claims he'd made on the policy.
Mr O appealed RSA's decision and then made a formal complaint. RSA told him it wouldn't 
change its decision, so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr O's complaint. She said, in summary, that RSA is entitled 
to make its own commercial decision about the terms under which it will offer insurance 
cover and she was satisfied that it treated Mr O fairly and consistently with how it would treat 
other customers.
Mr O replied to say he would be willing to accept a special condition to the policy that would 
allow him to still be insured as a driver, because he really needed to be able to drive the car 
due to his personal circumstances. So he asked for his complaint to be looked at again.
Mr O's complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not going to uphold Mr O's complaint. I'll explain why.
Insurance companies have their own underwriting criteria to assess the risks they're  willing 
to take on. They're entitled to make their own commercial decisions about the conditions 
under which they'll offer cover. RSA has told us that part of the grounds for its decision was 
the volume and cost of claims involving Mr O as a driver.
I can see that since 2015 Mr O has made a number of claims which were recorded as 'fault' 
claims. And the total cost to RSA of these claims was significant. 
I've seen RSA's underwriting criteria and I'm satisfied that the frequency and value of Mr O's 
claims would have prompted it to look again at whether it could continue to offer him cover. I 
can't see that RSA has treated him unfairly by reviewing his claims history and deciding it 
could no longer offer to insure him as a driver of the car. It has offered the option of 
continuing to insure the car with another named driver, which I think is reasonable  under the 
circumstances.I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr O and I do understand that this puts him in a 
difficult position, but I don't think RSA has been unfair or unreasonable in making the 
decision it did. So I'm not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding Mr O's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman