DRN-2934232
The complaint
Mr V has complained about the fee Asurit Limited said it would charge to deliver a 
replacement TV, the type of replacement TV provided and the way an agent spoke to him 
when he called about his claim under his smart cover policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr V bought a smart cover warranty policy for his TV online with Asurit. Mr 
V made a claim which was accepted and a replacement TV was provided. 
Mr V complained to Asurit. He said the fee Asurit charged to deliver the replacement TV was 
unrealistic. He was unhappy that a like for like TV wasnt being provided. Mr V was very 
upset that an agent had called him a liar while discussing the claim. 
In March 2021 Asurit explained that due to the age Mr V gave for the TV when he first made 
his claim, no excess would apply. But when it came to light that the TV was older, this meant 
an excess of £40 applied in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Asurit listened to the call where an agent said Mr V had lied when inputting the information 
online about the age of the TV. Mr V objected to the use of the word lied and the agent 
corrected himself to say Mr V had input the wrong year for the television. 
Asurit waived the £40 excess fee as a gesture of goodwill. It explained that a delivery charge 
would apply. Asurit said it wasnt possible to provide Mr V with a replacement TV of the 
same brand as the manufacturer no longer made the TV. It said it could provide one of the 
same brand subject to Mr V paying an upgrade fee. 
In March 2021 Mr V asked us to look at his complaint. He said the call with Asurits agent 
where he was accused of lying had caused him to lose sleep and affected his well-being and 
his work for about a week. 
Mr V wants £500 compensation for the distress Asurit caused him.
Our investigator thought Asurit had dealt with Mr Vs complaint reasonably. He asked Mr V 
to provide further details of the impact the call had on Mr V. From the information Mr V 
provided- and from listening to the call  the investigator couldnt consider the wider impact 
of the effect of the call. Overall he thought Asurit had dealt with the claim reasonably. his 
complaint reasonably. 
Mr V didnt agree. He wants compensation for defamation of character. 
Mr V raised a new complaint about an issue with the replacement TV. As this was after 
Asurit replied to this complaint  it doesnt form part of our investigation. The investigator 
explained to Mr V that he would need to raise this with Asurit as a new issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs policy with Asurit clearly says that delivery and installation of a replacement item isnt 
included in the cover. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Asurit to charge a delivery fee 
for the replacement TV. 
Ive listened to the call between the agent and Mr V. Mr V didnt agree that an excess should 
apply and said he was previously told it wouldnt. The agent replied to say that this was 
because Mr V lied about the age of the television when he applied (made his claim). 
I can understand why this statement would have caused Mr V some upset. Mr V disagreed 
with the choice of words and the agent corrected himself to say, you accidentally put in the 
wrong year  you didnt check the receipt before you answered the question. 
I think the agent shouldnt have said that Mr V had lied. However, I think he promptly 
corrected his choice of words and the call ended in a civil manner. And although an excess 
of £40 was correctly owed due to the right age of the TV, this was waived by Asurit as a 
gesture of goodwill. I think this was a fair and reasonable approach to take.
Ive carefully considered what Mr V has said about defamation of his character and the 
impact the call with the agent had on him. There isnt any supporting evidence for me to 
consider the wider impact on Mr V and his claim for £500 compensation. 
Overall I think Asurit has acted reasonably. So Im not asking it to do any more. Mr V can 
raise any new complaints he may have about the replacement TV with Asurit. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman