DRN-4410168
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy as she feels that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, increased 
her overdraft limit when it wasnt affordable for her.
What happened
In April 2015, Mrs T asked Clydesdale to increase her overdraft limit from £840 to £1040 
because she wanted some money for a holiday for her partners birthday. Clydesdale agreed 
to the overdraft limit increase, which was applied to Mrs Ts account shortly thereafter.
In 2023, Mrs T complained to Clydesdale about the overdraft limit increase because she felt 
she had been in financial difficulty in April 2015 such that the overdraft limit increase wasnt 
reasonably affordable for her. And Mrs T felt that this should have been apparent to 
Clydesdale, had they undertaken checks into her financial position at that time.
Clydesdale responded to Mrs T and explained that they didnt feel theyd done anything 
wrong by increasing Mrs Ts overdraft limit by £200 as per her request in 2015. Mrs T wasnt 
satisfied with Clydesdales response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that there was 
reasonable evidence to suggest that Clydesdale should have suspected that Mrs T might not 
have been able to afford the further £200 overdraft that shed applied for in 2015, so they 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service generally cant consider complaints about events that took place more than six 
years before the complaint was raised  as is the case in this instance  unless the business 
being complained about gives their consent for us to do so. However, in this instance, 
Clydesdale have given their consent for this service to consider Mrs Ts complaint.
But the length of time that has elapsed since 2015 is still a factor here. This is because I 
would only consider upholding Mrs Ts complaint if it could be demonstrated that she was in 
financial difficulty when she applied for the overdraft limit increase in April 2015, and that this 
should reasonably have been apparent to Clydesdale at that time.
This would usually involve reviewing Mrs Ts financial position at that time via her account 
statements and by the information that Clydesdale recorded when they assessed Mrs Ts 
application to increase her overdraft limit. But Clydesdale no longer retain this information. 
And given the length of time thats elapsed since 2015, Clydesdale arent reasonably 
expected to do so.
Mrs T has herself provided statements for her account. But these statements are only until 
the end of 2014, and so dont cover the three months immediately prior to the overdraft limit 
increase in April 2015. And this service considers the three months immediately prior to an 
overdraft limit increase to be of the most importance when assessing whether that limit 
increase was affordable for the applicant.
This means that there unfortunately isnt enough information available to me to allow me to 
confirm to the standard that this service requires that Mrs T was in financial difficulty in the 
early part of 2015 or not. 
While Mrs T has explained that she was in financial difficulty in early 2015, Clydesdale have 
themselves explained that they dont believe that Mrs T was in financial difficulty when she 
applied for the overdraft limit increase. Clydesdale take this position because, while they no 
longer retain the details of the creditworthiness assessment they undertook when Mrs T 
applied for the overdraft limit increase, they can see that an assessment was conducted, and 
that Mrs T passed that assessment  the consequence of which was the increasing of her 
overdraft limit as shed requested.
I have no reason to doubt Mrs Ts testimony here, but equally I have no reason to doubt the 
position of Clydesdale  because there is no corroborating evidence either way. And 
ultimately, I dont feel it would be fair to uphold this complaint in Mrs Ts favour without being 
able to confirm the claims about the unaffordability of the overdraft limit increase for her that 
she has made.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Clydesdale to take 
any further action here. I hope that Mrs T will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman