DRN-3746661
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) rejecting 
a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment to her dog, because it was overweight.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs Js dog developed a problem in its hind leg, with mild lameness. She 
took the dog to a vet, who examined the dog and took x-rays. The vet thought this showed 
osteophytosis and potential osteoarthritis. Following further assessment, both conditions 
were diagnosed.
 
Mrs J made a claim covering the cost of the examination by the vet (£770.42) but CG 
declined the claim, saying the dog was overweight. They referred to policy wording saying it 
wouldnt cover any conditions where a pet had been deemed overweight and had an 
associated condition. CG referred to the weight of Mrs Js dog at various times between 
2021 and 2022, ranging from 28.50kg (March 2021) to 28.80kg (February 2022). They said 
the weight range for the breed of the dog was 23kg to 25kg. So, they deemed the dog 
overweight and wouldnt accept the claim.
Unhappy at the rejection of her claim, Mrs J complained, saying the vet hadnt thought her 
dog was overweight and that her dog was above-average in terms of its height and length 
(which would suggest its weight would also be above average). She wanted her claim to be 
reassessed. 
But CG didnt uphold her complaint. In their final response they noted they hadnt been 
provided with the dogs body condition score, so based their assessment on the information 
already provided. They said when Mrs J took out her policy, the terms and conditions made 
it clear it wouldnt provide cover if a pet was overweight and had an associated condition. 
CG noted the dogs clinical history indicated it was overweight (from November 2016 through 
to February 2022). CG also said overweight dogs were at increased risk of joint damage that 
led to osteoarthritis, and that fat tissue had been shown in studies to lead to inflammation in 
a dogs body. While CG acknowledged other studies indicated multiple factors involved (in 
osteoarthritis) the studies also showed weight was a massive contributing factor. Given the 
dogs history of being overweight, CG confirmed their decline of the claim.
Unhappy at CGs response, Mrs J complained to this service. The main part of her complaint 
was that CG had unfairly declined her claim on the grounds her dg was overweight. She 
referred to Kennel Club information about their breed standard (weight) which indicated it 
was a guide and description of the ideal (weight) and a dog of the breed might not match 
those measurements. Having to pay for the cost of treatment left her out of pocket, as shed 
had to use her savings (so also losing interest on the sum). Shes also had to spend a lot of 
time responding to CGs requests for further information  which she thought should have 
been made at the time the claim was submitted and subsequently rejected -, as well as the 
time pursuing her complaint. She wanted CG to accept her claim.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Js complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly by using the 
exclusion relating to a dog being overweight to decline the claim. He didnt think CG had 
explained what the definition of overweight was that the exclusion relied on. He noted no 
concern from the vet about the dog being [medically] overweight. Also the dogs weight 
hadnt been compared to the stature of the dog (which may be large for its breed). Also the 
policy wording indicated that cover wouldnt be provided where the claim was as a result of 
[a dog being overweight} and not that being overweight may have been a factor. And there 
was no evidence to indicate the dog being overweight caused the lameness (or the 
diagnosed conditions) or was the main factor. To put things right, the investigator thought CG 
should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (with 
interest from the date Mrs J paid the cost of treatment to the date CG reimbursed her.
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they referred to the policy condition about a dog being overweight, 
and to the dogs weight history. They also referred to a publicly available source indicating 
the breed of Mrs Js dog would get up to 23kg as an adult. They also referred to several 
published sources about the link between  and impact of - a dogs weight on the risk of 
cruciate ligament rupture and of osteoarthritis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG has acted fairly towards Mrs J. 
The main issue in Mrs Js complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining her claim by 
applying the policy exclusion for her dog being overweight. Mrs J says CG acted unfairly in 
applying the exclusion, as the vet hadnt indicated the dog was overweight and also her dog 
was above-average height and length for its breed (which would suggest its weight would 
similarly be greater than any average or ideal weight for the breed).
CG say it was fair to use the exclusion to decline Mrs Js claim. They refer, firstly, to the 
dogs clinical history which they say indicates it was overweight. They also say, secondly, 
that while there are multiple causes of osteoarthritis, the strain on the dogs joints would be 
increased by being overweight. CG also refer to studies about the link between  and impact 
of - a dogs weight on the risk of osteoarthritis, saying being overweight is a massive factor.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including the clinical history of Mrs Js dog. Looking at the policy 
terms and conditions first, CG refer to the Insurance Product Information Document that 
states:
What is not insured?
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and 
this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet. 
The policy terms and conditions include a similar exclusion for Veterinary Fees as part of 
any claim for illness or accidental injury. 
The first point to consider is whether Mrs Js dog was overweight. The dogs medical history 
indicates its weight has fluctuated between 26.30kg and 31.00kg from November 2016 through to February 2022.  At that point the dogs weight was recorded as 28.80kg (and had 
been around that weight for the previous year). CG have cited 23kg as the weight for an 
adult dog of the breed. However, this doesnt take account of what Mrs J says is her dog 
being larger (in terms of height and length) than average (she says her dog is 17% above 
average). I havent seen direct evidence to support this view, which (if accurate) might 
suggest a weight above the figure cited by CG and (if in the same proportion) might suggest 
a weight around that most recently recorded for the dog. However, on balance, taking all 
these points into account I think its reasonable to conclude the dog was overweight  but 
not significantly so. 
The second point to consider is whether the dogs weight led to the lameness and 
subsequent diagnosis of osteoarthritis and other conditions and therefore whether it was 
reasonable for CG to apply the exclusion to decline the claim. As a general principle, where 
an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. 
However, Im not persuaded CG acted fairly and reasonably in applying the overweight 
exclusion to decline this element of the claim. I say that because the policy wording above 
(my emphasis in bold) refers to claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight 
or underweight and this results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the 
recommended medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a Vet.
Given this wording, the onus is on CG to show the claim (treatment) was caused by the dog 
being overweight. CG say, while the cause of osteoarthritis is multifactorial, the force on the 
dogs joints would be increased by being overweight. CG also refer to studies about the link 
between  and impact of - a dogs weight on the risk of cruciate ligament rupture. Mrs J 
disagrees, pointing to her vet not recording any concerns about the dog being overweight. 
On balance, considering both views carefully together with the supporting evidence and 
information, Im persuaded by Mrs Js view. Ill set out why Ive come to that view.
The clinical history of the dog records its weight at various points, as CG noted. However, 
theres no record of the weight being raised as a concern, nor of it being the cause of (or 
main factor) in the lameness and diagnosis of osteoarthritis.
 
Ive also considered the additional information and evidence provided by CG when 
responding to our investigators view. Ive focused on the information and studies linking 
weight to osteoarthritis, as thats the condition diagnosed by the vet. I cant see any 
indication or mention from the information or evidence available of cruciate ligament rupture 
or other injury to Mrs J;s dog, so I havent considered this aspect further.
Looking at the studies that are directly relevant, they include the following statements (which 
CG have highlighted):
Based on both clinical studies and this veterinary nutritionists experience, obesity 
and orthopaedic disease go hand in hand often with significant repercussions for 
both  patient health and the human-animal.
There are several risk factors for lameness. These include your dogs breed. 
Frequent, vigorous activity may also be a factor, as is your dogs weight. Overweight 
dogs are more prone to developing some of the conditions that can lead to 
lameness.
Looking at these statements, they are consistent with the view that being overweight is one 
factor that may lead to lameness and osteoarthritis. But there are a range of factors that are 
also potential causes of both conditions and (as the second statement notes) weight can 
lead to lameness. However, this is not the same as being overweight will lead to the 
conditions (or be the direct, sole or main cause). Taking all these points into account, while being overweight will have been likely to increase 
the risk of lameness and osteoarthritis, Im not persuaded CG have shown enough to apply 
the exclusion in the circumstances of this case. Particularly given the absence of any clear 
mention of weight as the direct (or main) cause. So, Ive concluded CG acted unfairly to 
apply the exclusion to decline Mrs Js claim.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for the dog being overweight, then they should 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including 
any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If CG accept the claim following their reassessment, they should also pay interest at a rate of 
8% simple on the amount accepted, from the date of their original rejection of the claim, to 
the date they accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Reassess Mrs Js claim for treatment of the lameness in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of treatment and 
any policy excess (as appropriate).
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd accept the claim following their 
reassessment, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount accepted, 
from the date of their original rejection of the claim, to the date they accept it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman