DRN-1197959
 
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Tesco Underwriting Limited declined a theft claim under his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ks car was stolen from outside his home. Mr K made a claim on his motor insurance 
policy and Tesco declined to pay out. It said it wasnt satisfied Mr K had given true and 
complete information about the circumstances surrounding the theft of the car. Mr K didnt 
accept this and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He accepted what Tesco had said. It said Mr K 
hadnt been consistent with the details of the claim. Tesco said Mr Ks story had changed 
over time. Our investigator said it was fair for Tesco to decline to pay out for the theft of the 
car.
As Mr K didnt accept this, the complaint was passed on to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusions as our investigator for substantially the same reasons.
When making a claim under any insurance contract, there is an obligation on the claimant to 
be honest and truthful in their submissions. The Tesco car insurance policy says:
Making a false statement or misrepresenting or withholding information from the 
administrator could result in your contract of insurance being voided (as if the policy never 
existed), all claims under your policy being refused and all premiums that you have paid 
being retained. It is your responsibility to ensure that all the information that has been given 
by you, or that has been given on your behalf, is true and complete. 
Ive seen a transcript of the initial conversation Mr K had with Tesco following the theft of the 
car. He said hed parked the car on his driveway which is located to the rear of his property, 
and he walked round to the front door. When he came back the car was gone.
Tesco asked Mr K if the car had been left unlocked. He replied I believe so. Or maybe, I 
dont know. I believe so as it is behind my house. I dont know how they found my keys. 
Tesco asked if the keys had been left in the ignition, to which Mr K answered I have no 
idea. Maybe I dropped them when I left the car.
Mr K was asked how many sets of keys he was given when he bought the car. And he said 
two. He was asked how many he had now, and he said one. Tesco asked whether he had any recollection of where his keys are. And Mr K answered no, no idea. Mr K further 
speculated on the call that the thief may have found the keys and driven off with the car.
Tesco explained to Mr K that as the car had been left unlocked, it might not cover the claim. 
Mr K said he couldnt remember if hed locked the car or not. When questioned further, Mr K 
said his wife had confirmed that he had locked the car as shed seen the lights flash and 
heard the horn beep from the upstairs window. Tesco asked why Mr K had said something 
different earlier on in the call. And Mr K confirmed that his wife had just told him.
A few days later, Mr K and Tesco had a further conversation. Tesco asked Mr K whether he 
could remember the last time hed seen or used the car keys. Mr K said he remembered 
locking the car but that he may have or may not have dropped them. So, it would seem at 
this point that he still hadnt located the keys which he acknowledged were missing on the 
date of the theft.
Following the call, Tesco arranged for an enquiry agent to speak to Mr K and take a 
statement. From what they were told, the agent concluded that the theft took place within a 
20-minute window, rather than the few minutes Mr K had previously said.
The agent reported that Mr K believed he did lock the car. And that his wife confirmed shed 
seen him do so from upstairs. Furthermore, he hadnt dropped the keys as hed used his 
house key  which was on the same keyring  to get in his front door after parking the car. 
He said he was in possession of both keys, however a few days before hed lost the spare. 
He thinks his daughter had hidden it as hed left it out to show the enquiry agent. 
Mr K contacted Tesco a few days later to say hed found the spare key. And he sent this in 
to Tesco. 
During our investigations, Mr K has told us he was in shock and confused when he spoke to 
Tesco initially. He said he was in his friends car driving around looking for his car when he 
spoke to the police and Tesco. And as he wasnt thinking clearly, so the information hed 
given was his initial reaction. It was only when he got home and spoke to his wife, that she 
confirmed he had locked the car. 
I appreciate the points Mr K has raised. Its understandable that hed be in shock and its not 
unusual that someone might doubt themselves about whether or not they locked the car. But 
I have to agree with Tesco that there are inconsistencies in Mr K's differing versions of 
events.
During the initial call to Tesco Mr K said his wife hadnt seen anything. But when Tesco said 
it might decline the claim, he said his wife had seen him lock the car and shed just told him 
that. However, when speaking to us, Mr K said he was out in his friends car when he initially 
called Tesco and didnt speak to his wife until he got home. This is clearly inconsistent.
In addition, Mr K didnt have the keys when he initially spoke to Tesco. And he didnt know 
where they were. When Tesco spoke to him a few days later, he still didnt know where the 
keys were. However, he later confirmed to the enquiry agent that he had used the keys to 
unlock the front door, and that hed had them all along. Again, this is inconsistent and 
doesnt explain why he didnt have the keys on the two previous occasions when he spoke to 
Tesco.  
Its not my role to decide whether Mr K has made false statements or misrepresented his 
claim to Tesco. I have to decide whether Tesco has enough information to fairly determine 
that Mr K has made false statements or misrepresented his claim. Based on the information I 
have to consider if Tesco acted fairly when it declined to deal with the claim based on the evidence Mr K had provided. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Tesco acted fairly when it 
said it wasnt going to make Mr K an offer on his motor claim. I accept Tescos point that Mr 
Ks version of events has frequently changed and hasnt been consistent.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman