DRN-2507485
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as D complains about delays in obtaining a Bounce Back 
Loan from Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Ms T, one of Ds directors, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
D was looking to apply for a Bounce Back Loan from Barclays in early May 2020. 
Initially, Ms T was unable to submit an online application  her attempts were met with 
messages that explained she couldnt proceed. 
When Barclays spoke to Ms T on 20 May, it explained that this was due to some 
discrepancies between the information about D held on its records and those held at 
Companies House. But after speaking with Ms T, Barclays made the necessary 
amendments that day. 
On 22 May, Barclays told Ms T that it also needed her and her co-director, Mr M, to 
complete a new mandate for the account to update the signature records it held on file. Ms T 
and Mr M completed the form and it was returned to Barclays on 27 May.
Ms T continued to chase things up with the bank until she was able to submit Ds application 
successfully on 9 June. The loan was drawn down the same day.
Ms T says it was unacceptable that it took Barclays five weeks to sort out the issues with Ds 
application, when the purpose of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was to provide immediate 
support. She says that she spent a lot of time chasing things up, spending hours on the 
phone and visiting a branch  taking her away from the business during an already difficult 
time. So she wants Barclays to compensate D for the time and effort spent dealing with the 
matter.
Barclays says its sorry for the delay but no errors were made. It says it needed to ensure 
that it held correct information about D before agreeing to lend. It was dealing with an 
unprecedented amount of applications and call back requests, but still did all it could to 
progress Ds application as swiftly as possible  including fast-tracking the mandate 
changes.
Our investigator didnt think Ds complaint should be upheld. While noting that the application 
had taken longer than generally expected, she didnt think this was down to any 
unreasonable delays on the banks part. The steps it had taken were necessary and it had 
kept Ms T reasonably informed as to what was happening and what the next steps were. 
Ms T didnt accept our investigators view. She still thought it was an error on Barclays part 
that had left D unable to apply for the loan for so long. And she didnt think the full extent of 
the time and effort shed spent in sorting things out had been taken into account. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should reassure Ms T that I have taken into account all shes told us about the time 
and effort she spent on chasing things up with Barclays and I have no doubt that this added 
unwanted stress and inconvenience during an already difficult time. But for me to require 
Barclays to compensate D for this, Id need to find it had made an error or acted 
unreasonably  and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
I understand from what Ms T has told us that she thought that she was unable to submit Ds 
online loan application because of a glitch in Barclays systems. But that wasnt the case. 
Rather, the banks systems prevented Ds application proceeding because information was 
required before it could agree to lend. 
While the aim of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme is to provide financial support to 
businesses quickly, lenders are still expected to carry out a number of checks before 
approving a loan  including Know Your Customer (KYC), fraud and anti-money laundering 
checks. So I think it was reasonable for Barclays to ensure its records were complete and 
up-to-date before considering Ds application. I appreciate Ms Ts point that D had banked 
with Barclays for 25 years and nothing had changed in that time. But sometimes information 
needs to be confirmed, even if it is unchanged. 
Barclays has also shown that its record of the directors signatures hadnt been updated 
since 2003. As part of its usual process when a customer applies for a new product, this only 
came to light when D tried to apply for a Bounce Back Loan and it required the mandate to 
be updated. I think that was reasonable. 
I can see it took Barclays a couple of weeks to take the action needed to clear these matters 
up, and I can understand why Ms T might find that unacceptable. I would agree that it was 
longer than ideal. At the same time, I think its fair to bear in mind the unprecedented 
circumstances at the time. In addition to the large volume of loan applications and 
associated calls and contact, the bank was also having to deal with the consequences of the 
pandemic  which would have affected the level of service Barclays could reasonably 
provide. So taking all of that into account, I dont think the slight delay in progressing things 
here was unreasonable.
From 22 May onwards, I think Barclays progressed things in a timely manner. It received Ds 
completed mandate forms on 27 May and fast-tracked them, so that the system was 
updated on 1 June. Barclays says that the update is only reflected after five working days, so 
D was then able to apply successfully on 9 June, with the loan paid out that day. I can also 
see from the notes of contact with Ms T during this time that Barclays kept her informed 
about what was going on and what the likely timeframes were. 
Looking at everything, and while Im sorry to disappoint Ms T as I know she feels very 
strongly about this matter, I think Barclays dealt fairly with Ds Bounce Back Loan application 
in the circumstances  so Im not requiring it to do anything to settle this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman