DRN-2039642
 
The complaint
Mr M says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in connection with a 
mortgage in 2004.
The PPI cost around £48 per month. It would have paid a monthly benefit of £803 for up to 
12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy started 
in June 2004. Mr M redeemed the mortgage after less than eight months in early 2005, and 
the policy was cancelled shortly after.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said 
that Mr M was suffering from two medical conditions when he took out the PPI, and he 
wouldnt have been able to claim successfully on the policy if hed been off work for either 
of them. So he didnt think Santander should have recommended the PPI to Mr M without 
pointing this out. And he didnt think Mr M would have taken the policy if it had done so.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Santander on 25 June 2020. I summarise my findings:
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide 
what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
Mr Ms told us he was unaware of the PPI, and didnt know it existed. Santander no 
longer has a copy of Mr Ms application for the PPI. I didnt think that was 
unreasonable, given how long ago the sale took place. But I was satisfied, from what 
we know of Santanders sales process at the time, that Mr M would have had to 
complete a separate application form and direct debit mandate for the PPI. So 
I thought hed have realised it was a separate product from the mortgage.
I'd seen a copy of the welcome letter that was sent to Mr M after he took out the 
policy. It enclosed a schedule of cover and other paperwork. And it set out clearly 
how much the premiums for the policy would be and when theyd be taken. Id also 
borne in mind that the policy premiums would have shown on Mr M's bank 
statements, separately from his monthly mortgage payments. If Mr M hadn't agreed to 
take out the PPI, I thought it was likely he'd have queried this, but I'd seen nothing to 
suggest that he did so.
Overall, I thought it was likely that the PPI was presented as optional. And I thought 
Mr M probably decided to take the cover, knowing that he didn't have to  but I could 
understand how he may no longer remember this, so many years later.
Santander says it would have recommended the PPI to Mr M. This means that it had 
a responsibility to check that it was suitable for him. But it didnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Id seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time.
Mr M has told us he wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay 
from his employer at the time. If he'd made a successful claim for accident, sickness 
or unemployment, the PPI would have paid the monthly benefit of £803 for up to a 
year. And even if Mr M would have been entitled to some sick pay or redundancy pay 
from his employer, the PPI would have paid out in addition to that. I thought the 
protection the policy provided would have been particularly important to Mr M, as hes 
told us that he didnt have any savings or other means he could have used to meet 
his monthly mortgage repayments if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his job.
Id also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mr M's home, and the consequences of not keeping up with 
his monthly mortgage payments could have been serious. So I thought the policy 
would have given him peace of mind that his mortgage payments would continue to 
be made if he was off sick, or if he lost his job.
The cost of the policy was shown in the welcome letter. So I thought Mr M would 
have understood how much hed need to pay for it. And since he was paying for the 
PPI monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if his 
circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer needed the cover.
I acknowledged that it was possible Santander didn't point out the main things the 
policy didn't cover (for example, unusual working arrangements, or existing medical 
conditions). As I'd already mentioned, our adjudicator thought that if Santander had 
explained the policy terms regarding existing medical conditions, Mr M wouldnt have 
taken it out. But I wasnt convinced that was likely.
Mr M has explained that one of the two medical conditions hes told us about had 
been diagnosed around 16 years before he took out the mortgage and PPI. He says 
its controlled with medication and hes never had any time off work for it.
The major surgery hed had for the other condition had been around 20 years before 
he took out the mortgage and PPI with Santander. On that occasion, hed been off 
work for several months. Then, around eight years before he took out the mortgage 
and PPI, hed had a revision operation for the same condition, and had been off 
work for a month.
The exclusion for existing medical conditions wasnt a blanket exclusion. It didnt 
apply to conditions where the policyholder had been symptom-free and hadnt 
consulted a doctor or received treatment in the 24 months before making a claim 
under the policy. And the policy would only have paid out for any claim for accident or 
sickness after an excess period of 28 days. So if Mr M had been off sick for less than 
28 days, the policy wouldnt have paid out whether the medical condition was pre-
existing or not.
I explained that for me to think it likely that better information about the policys 
provisions about existing medical conditions would have put Mr M off taking it, Id 
have to think it was likely that when he applied for the mortgage, hed have thought there was a good chance that hed need to be off work for more than 28 days in one 
go as a result of one of his existing medical conditions. I commented that of course, 
its never possible to be certain about what might have been. But based on what 
Mr Ms told us, I thought this was unlikely, on balance.
Mr M would have been able to make an accident or sickness claim under the policy if 
hed been off work with any unrelated medical condition, or if hed been made 
redundant. And from what I'd seen of his circumstances at the time, I thought it was 
unlikely that Mr M would have been affected by any of the other main things the 
policy didnt cover.
So on balance, and taking everything into account, I didnt think that better 
information would have put Mr M off taking the cover. I was sorry to disappoint Mr M, 
but this meant that based on what Id seen so far, I didnt find that the PPI was mis- 
sold, and I wasnt planning to uphold his complaint.
further submissions
Mr Ms representatives have told us that they have anything further to add. Santander hasnt 
responded to my provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman