DRN-2695729
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc mishandled a claim for unauthorised payments taken 
from his credit card account.
 
What happened
At the end of April 2018 Mr H was looking at potential holidays. He says that he booked 
flights and a hotel using his credit card, thinking that no immediate payment would be 
taken and that they were pending transactions only. On receiving emails from both the 
hotel and the airline Mr H realised these had actually been booked.
Mr H says he tried to contact TSB by phone straight away as he knew these bookings 
werent going to be suitable for him. He wasnt able to get through due to TSB 
experiencing some technical problems. and receiving a higher number of complaints and 
contact from its customers.
Mr H was able to speak with a TSB agent the following day. He explained that the 
transactions on his credit card for the flight and hotel werent authorised by him as he 
had booked them in error. The agent told him that the matter would be passed to the 
Dispute Team for them to investigate. The agent said Mr H would receive a letter in the 
post in the next 5 to 10 days which would set out whether his claim had been upheld 
and the payments reimbursed or, alternatively, what the next steps in the process 
would be.
TSB says it wrote to Mr H and requested he provide further information about the 
transactions, including emails from the airline and hotel within the next 15 working 
days. It says that, as it heard nothing back from Mr H, it closed the dispute.
Mr H says he never received this letter, but he had called and emailed TSB in May and 
June 2018 but received no response. He also says that he saw both via a statement and 
his internet account, that a dispute had been raised about the transactions and that later 
credits for the two amounts appeared. Mr H says he thought the matter had been 
resolved in his favour. 
Mr H says he later realised, in or around December 2018, that the money for these two 
transactions hadnt been credited back and he complained to TSB. TSB requested 
further information so that it could investigate. Mr H said that he wasnt able to provide 
the emails from the airline and hotel because of the amount of time that had passed. TSB 
declined Mr Hs claim, saying that it asked twice for supporting documentation but hadnt 
received it.
Mr H complained to TSB about the way it had handled the matter. He said he had 
received two letters with the same date from TSB, one saying it was investigating and 
the other saying his complaint wasnt being upheld. He said he didnt think his 
complaint had been investigated. Mr H also raised a number of matters with TSB such 
as to why his account had shown the money being credited back and the problems in 
making contact.
TSB partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and agreed that there had been a failure to 
communicate clearly with him. It said it hadnt been a mistake to credit the account 
when it had as a dispute had been raised and was being investigated. It offered £150 
as compensation.
Mr H was unhappy at the settlement offered by TSB and complained to this service. 
He said he had been misled by TSB and, if it had told him when he called that the 
payments couldnt be reimbursed, he would have looked at whether he could change 
the dates of the booked flights and hotel. He said he had tried numerous times to 
make contact with TSB, but it hadnt responded.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld as she 
said the offer made by TSB was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. She said 
that Mr H had made the error in booking the tickets and hotel and so it wasnt fair to 
make TSB liable for those transactions.
Our investigator said she thought it was reasonable for TSB to ask for 
documentary proof about the transactions so it could investigate.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He said TSB should have been clear 
during his call that reimbursement might not be possible. He said that he tried to 
make contact on a number of occasions with TSB without receiving a response. Mr H 
said he was also concerned that the statements provided by TSB for his credit card 
didnt show the transactions being credited back when he had seen this, and that 
TSB had admitted to him that there had been such credits, but these had been made 
in error.
Mr H said that the amount of compensation offered was derisory when looking at 
the amount he had lost.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
I didnt think it was disputed that Mr H had made an error when he booked the flights 
and hotel. I was a little unclear why Mr H first contacted TSB rather than contacting 
either the airline or the hotel. Mr H said he did speak to each of the businesses and 
was told by both of them that he couldnt cancel and receive a refund due to the terms 
and conditions of the bookings. I didnt know whether Mr H had received this 
information in writing as it appears his contact may have been via the phone. He had 
received confirmation of his actual bookings via email.
Mr H contacted TSB in an effort to stop the payments. Id listened to the call he made in May 
2018 when he first raised his dispute. It was clear that TSB had been experiencing IT 
problems meaning customers couldnt access the website and this had led to an increase in 
the volume of calls it was receiving. The agent noted the circumstances of Mr Hs claim and 
informed him it would be passed to the Dispute Team, who would be in touch with him in 
writing via the post within the next 10 working days. I appreciated that Mr H felt strongly that 
at this point it should have been raised with him that the transactions might not be 
reimbursed, but I didnt think it was the role of the agent logging the information to give that 
warning. I thought the agent was quite clear that another department would be investigating, 
and that it was this department who would make the decision as to the next steps. I didnt 
think it would fair or reasonable to expect the agent to outline to Mr H what may happen as 
they werent part of the team who would look into the matter. I also thought disputes of this 
nature needed to be looked at fully before a decision can be made.TSB said that after this call a letter was sent to Mr H outlining the required information 
for it to be able to investigate Mr Hs claim. It hasnt been able to provide a copy of 
this letter so I cant be satisfied it was sent out. TSB said it didnt hear again from Mr 
H until December 2018. Mr H however has supplied a copy of an email he sent to 
TSB in June 2018, in which he wrote that he had called in April, May and June 2018 
in addition to this email, and he asked that it make contact with him. However, the 
next contact made by Mr H with TSB appears to be in December 2018.
TSB responded by asking for documentary proof of the transactions and Mr H replied 
that he was unable to provide them. I agreed with the investigator that it was 
reasonable for TSB to require proof of the transactions as, without it, TSB couldnt 
properly investigate what has happened. Mr H said he wasnt aware of the request 
until December 2018, which was several months after the transactions, but, as the 
bookings were online, I thought even with the passage of time, emails to Mr H 
confirming his bookings should have still been traceable by him.
Mr H said that he was misled into thinking there had been a reimbursement due to 
what was shown on his credit card statement and also when he looked at his internet 
banking account. I thought the evidence about crediting back was somewhat unclear. 
Id seen the copies of the credit card statements provided by TSB from May to 
December 2018 and they didnt show any crediting back of the two transactions. But 
Mr H said in his complaint letter to this service that the two transactions were shown as 
being credited back in the statement he received following his contact with TSB on the 
phone in May 2018. He had also provided a screenshot from his internet bank which 
showed that a dispute was raised about the two transactions, and that they were 
apparently credited back in September 2018.
TSB, in its final response letter of July 2019, said there was no mistake made in 
not advising you when we credited your account as we were still awaiting 
information to complete the investigation. Which I thought indicated that a credit 
back was made albeit temporarily though it wasnt clear when this occurred. Mr H 
also said that TSB had told him this crediting back was an error. I thought it was 
understandable that the crediting back caused confusion for Mr H as to whether 
he had been reimbursed or not.
TSB accepted that communication between it and Mr H hadnt been of the standard 
that could reasonably be expected and had offered compensation in light of that. Mr H 
said the amount offered was insufficient for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him. The issue for me to decide was what would be a fair resolution in these 
circumstances.
From the evidence I had seen it appears there was no contact between Mr H and TSB from 
June 2018 until December 2018. And it appeared that during those months the credit card 
balance included these transactions as they didnt appear to have been credited back for 
any significant period. I thought it was reasonable to have expected Mr H to check his credit 
card balance each month and as the transactions were for around £1,500, I thought he 
should have noticed before December 2018 that these amounts were part of the outstanding 
amount and hadnt been reimbursed.
Mr H acknowledged that the airline tickets and the hotel he booked werent 
refundable. He said had he known he couldnt claim his money back from TSB he 
would have seen if he could move these bookings. I didnt know whether that would 
have been an option open to him, or how realistic changing these bookings would 
have been. I thought it was likely an additional fee might have been incurred.Looking at the evidence I thought that compensation of £150 was insufficient to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused but I disagreed that TSB should be held liable 
for the full amount of the transactions. So, while I accepted the two transactions were 
the result of Mr Hs error, I thought TSB could have done more. It didnt appear to have 
answered Mr Hs email sent in June 2018, and there had been confusion over what was 
credited and when. Taking that into account I intended to ask TSB to pay Mr H an 
additional £100 in compensation making a total payment of £250.
TSB agreed with the extra redress, but Mr H said the compensation wasnt fair. He 
provided a recording of a call he had with TSB after he had made his complaint to 
this service during which he said the agent he spoke to had confirmed that the 
dispute had been showing on his account beyond May 2018, leading him to believe 
his claim had been resolved in his favour. Mr H disagreed that he hadnt been 
checking his statements regularly and said the two payments had shown as credited 
back for some time.
In light of this new information, I issued a second provisional decision. 
Id listened carefully to the recording of the call between Mr H and TSB, but I thought 
there was still a lack of clarity over what was shown on the paper statements and 
what was shown on the internet banking app regarding whether these two disputed 
payments had been credited back.
During the call with Mr H, it was explained by TSBs agent that there was a system error 
which had impacted on any disputes that had been resolved as they werent then 
released meaning they remained as showing as ongoing disputes. The agent confirmed 
to Mr H that she could see the two transactions had been marked as dispute initiated 
and said it was an error if Mr H had been able to see them on his internet banking app as 
he shouldnt have been able to see that.
Mr H said that the two credit backs were showing not only on his internet banking screen 
but also on his paper statements. TSB said these two transactions werent showing as 
having been credited back in any statements from June 2018. Mr H wasnt able to provide 
any copies of the paper statements he said he had received and had also said at one 
point to the agent, when speaking with them on the phone, that he didnt know if the 
transactions were showing as credit backs on his paper statements though he later said 
they had been showing.
I thought that as there was a system error in relation to disputes that it was more likely 
than not that Mr H was misled by the internet banking app and was unaware when 
looking at that account that his claim had been closed due to a lack of documentary 
proof about the two bookings, and that the two transactions had been debited back 
from his account. I accepted the two transactions were showing as credits on the app 
as I could see them on the screenshot Mr H had provided from his internet bank in 
September 2018. However, I was still unclear as to what the paper statements were 
showing or what the credit card balance was between May and December 2018. I 
thought it was possible that the outstanding balance on the card might have included 
these two transactions during that period. The June 2018 paper statement that Id 
seen clearly included the cost of the flight and hotel in the transactions section and as 
a debit not a credit. so were part of the cards outstanding balance at that point.
Mr H said if hed known his claim was rejected, he would have attempted to mitigate his 
losses by changing the bookings as he wasnt able to cancel them. I couldnt say 
whether that would have been possible or not or whether he would have incurred penalties for changing so I didnt think I could rely on Mr H having been able to alter the 
bookings when looking at compensation and the actions of TSB.
So, from the new evidence that had been supplied I thought this showed that Mr H was 
let down by TSBs processes and that by relying on the banking app hed believed 
incorrectly that his claim had been agreed. I still thought it was likely that the paper 
statements provided conflicting information, but I could understand why Mr H had formed 
the impression that he had.
While I accepted there had been confusion as to whether Mr Hs claim had been allowed 
by TSB, I still didnt think it was reasonable to find TSB liable to repay the whole amount 
of these two transactions back to Mr H. I thought it was fair that I took into account that 
these bookings were a mistake by Mr H and that he hadnt been able to provide 
documentary proof of them which would have allowed TSB to investigate his claim.
Looking at the level of compensation that would be fair in these circumstances I had 
changed my view that a total payment of £250 would be fair and thought an increase to 
a total payment of £350 was more appropriate to reflect the impact TSBs handling of his 
claim has had on Mr H.
TSB hasnt asked me to look at any parts of my second provisional decision. Mr H says 
he will reluctantly accept it as he cant provide copies of the papers statements showing 
the two transcations had been credited back, though he is sure he had received them. 
He says he used his paper statements to check his balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed my second provisional decision and I havent changed my mind. I 
appreciate my decision is disappointing to Mr H, but the evidence about whether these two 
transactions were showing as having been credited back in both the app and the paper 
statements isnt clear. 
The copies of the papers statements that I have been provided with show that the amounts 
were debited back in June 2018 and were part of the outstanding balance so should have 
alerted Mr H that his claim had been unsuccessful. I dont have enough evidence to say that 
these copies arent the same in content as the original ones sent to Mr H by TSB each 
month. TSB says they are, and Mr H says they arent but accepts he isnt able to provide me 
with evidence that supports that. So, when weighing up the evidence about what information 
Mr H received at that time, Ive accepted the documentary evidence provided by TSB.
When looking at the amount of compensation I also think its fair I take into account that 
these two transactions resulted from an error made by Mr H and that he hasnt provided the 
requested evidence to TSB to allow it to investigate his claim.
So, for the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs claim.
Putting things right
Im asking TSB Bank plc to pay Mr H a total amount of £350 to reflect the 
inconvenience and distress caused by its handling of his claim of unauthorised 
payments taken from his credit card.
   My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. Im asking TSB 
Bank plc to pay Mr H a total amount of £350 to reflect the inconvenience and distress 
caused by its handling of his claim of unauthorised payments taken from his credit card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman