DRN-2093496
The complaint
Mr M complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) charged him ongoing fees for a 
service he believes they didnt provide.
What happened
Mr M invested funds from his personal pension in the Standard Life Active Retirement 
Investment Option (SLAR) which allowed him to draw pension benefits flexibly. It involved 
investing into three pots which held lower risk investments in pot 1, low to medium 
investments in pot 2 and medium risk investments in pot 3. Withdrawals would be taken from 
pot 1 first and then pot 2 and 3. The idea was to be able to withdraw funds from low risk 
investments in the short term and give the riskier funds opportunity to grow over the medium 
to long-term. In addition to an annual management charge, a service charge of 0.3% applied 
to Mr Ms SLAR funds. SL says this is a charge for ongoing servicing and support of these 
funds. 
In 2019, Mr M complained to SL. He was unhappy that his SLAR 2 fund had lost value over 
a sustained period between June 2017 and January 2019. Mr M said he accepted funds 
could go up and down, but he would have expected SL to mitigate losses in this period. He 
thought this is what he was paying additional charges for. He doesnt feel he received this 
service, so would like the additional charges to be refunded to him.
Mr M points to a transcript of a phone call with SL where he was told: 
So that additional 0.3 [%], so thats Standard Lifes, so that pays for basically Standard Lifes
Investment experts choosing the funds in each of the 3 pots for you and regularly reviewing 
them to make sure its doing what they were set out to do. Managing the initial split of money 
across the 3 pots depending on how you plan to withdraw it. Managing your withdrawals to 
make sure your money is taken from the right pot. Providing you with ongoing 
communications and supports so you can decide if Standard Life Active Retirement 
continues to reflect your investment goals and needs throughout your retirement.
Mr M says he was misled. He thought the extra charge was to ensure that his funds would 
perform in the way they were meant to -which is to make profit. This wasnt achieved over a 
long period of time. So he would like the additional service charge refunded.
SL said the additional service charge covers the following:
our investment experts choosing the funds in each of the pots for you, and regularly 
reviewing them to make sure theyre still doing what they set out to do
managing the initial split of your money across the pots, depending on how you plan 
to withdraw it
managing your withdrawals to make sure your money is taken from the right pot
providing you with ongoing communications and support so you can decide if 
Standard Life Active Retirement continues to reflect your investment goals and needs 
throughout your retirement
The above is also set out in their brochures and reflects what Mr M was told over the phone 
when he set up the funds.
Mr M disagreed and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint and as no agreement could be reached it was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
As far as I can see it, Mr M was given consistent information over the phone and in the 
material SL made available. Im satisfied he knew an additional service charge applied and 
how much this was. 
SL explained that setting up this kind of investment, and for withdrawals to be taken 
automatically from different pots, is a more expensive process which is covered by the 
service charge. I consider this plausible.
Mr Ms key point is that when he was told SL would make sure the funds were doing what 
they were set out to do, this meant they would make certain there was a profit in these 
funds. And this is the basis on which he made his decision to invest.
l can understand that Mr M is disappointed by the performance of his pension fund.
However, I have to disagree here that he was given the impression profits were guaranteed 
in any way or that losses couldnt happen. It is correct that the aim of Mr Ms funds (as any 
investment fund) is to achieve positive investment returns. And having a fund manager 
actively monitoring funds and using their discretion to change investments as they see 
appropriate was a feature of Mr Ms funds. This service comes at a cost. However, whilst a 
fund manager will make decisions that they think will lead to better returns, they cant predict 
the markets and their decisions can never be guaranteed to lead to positive returns.
The SLAR 2 fund factsheet says that 
Pot 2 holds investments that aim to provide better returns than pot 1, while still remaining 
low to medium risk.
the value of investments can fall as well as rise and is not guaranteed-you may get back 
less than you paid in
The SLAR information brochure said:
As with any investment there is always a risk. The highest risk is that the fund SLAR invests 
in has been classed as medium risk. Remember you may get back less than you paid in.
Significant and sustained market falls would reduce sustainability of your retirement income.
And Mr Ms pension literature said about absolute return funds (which SLAR 2 consists of):
Although absolute return funds aim for consistent positive returns, theres no guarantee that 
they will achieve them and the funds can fall in value.
So I think overall Mr M was given sufficient information to make him aware that there was a 
risk of values falling and that positive returns werent guaranteed. SL explained they reviewed the SLAR investments quarterly and annually. Quarterly reviews 
involved:
whether the funds objective is being delivered
what the funds invest in and whether this is still appropriate
the performance of funds
whether the risk is still aligned with expectations
Annual reviews had a more holistic view of SLARs strategy, operations and governance.
I appreciate that Mr M thinks making sure that funds were doing what they were set out to do 
has to mean they had to make a profit. However, whilst surely this was the aim, I consider 
that a reasonable interpretation here is that SL were reviewing the investments to ensure 
they were still in line with the investment strategy, risk levels and overall performance. If 
issues were discovered, then the fund manager would act and change investments for 
example. But as I said above, even a change in investments would not guarantee a positive 
return.
Overall, I cant see that SL didnt provide the services they said they would. And Mr M 
agreed to pay the additional service charge. I cant agree that Mr M was misled in any way 
and so I wont ask SL to refund any charges to him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman