DRN-2859251
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled her motor policy as if it 
never existed, which meant it wouldnt consider her claim.
Ms L has a representative for her case, but for ease of reference I shall just refer to Ms L 
throughout. 
What happened
Ms L took out a motor policy with Ageas through a broker starting from 8 July 2019. She 
changed her car under the policy in November 2019 for an additional premium. 
Ms L then made a claim for the aggravated theft of her car on 26 January 2020. She made a 
previous claim in August for theft too but that was closed as the car was recovered. Ageas 
investigated the theft in January 2020 and discovered Ms L had a previous policy cancelled 
by a previous insurer which she didnt disclose to Ageas.
As it would provide any policy to a person who had a previous policy cancelled, it then 
cancelled Ms Ls policy as if it never existed (voided) and refused to deal with her claim.
Ms L complained but Ageas wouldnt change its stance, so she brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator didnt think Ageas did anything wrong. Ms L didnt agree so her complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
Ms L bought her policy from Ageas through a broker. That means the broker asked Ms L all 
the questions to which Ageas needed an answer and based on what that broker told Ageas, 
Ageas then offered Ms L a policy.
Its very clear from Ageas file that Ms L knew her previous insurer wanted her to produce 
some documents to validate that policy, which she didnt produce in time so consequently 
that policy was cancelled. However, one of the questions Ageas required to know before it 
offered Ms L this policy was whether any previous policy had been cancelled. It appears the 
broker didnt answer this question on Ms Ls behalf.
From our enquiries it seems that the broker decided the circumstances surrounding the 
cancellation of Ms Ls policy by a previous insurer wasnt relevant. But theres no evidence 
that it asked Ageas this or discussed the issue with it. 
Since Ms L applied for her policy through a broker, if the broker made any mistake about her 
answers to the questions Ageas required, she must complain to that broker herself. As that 
isnt anything to do with Ageas. There has been much discussion over whether the policy 
was set up via email or over the phone with the broker. Ms L thinks it was over the phone, 
but the broker says it was all done by email. However, I dont consider any of this is of much 
relevance to this complaint. The bottom line is that the relevant question wasnt answered 
and the issue of whether it was Ms Ls fault or her brokers is only something that can be 
sorted out between Ms L and her broker. It doesnt concern the central question of this 
complaint which is whether Ageas did anything wrong in cancelling Ms Ls policy because it 
didnt know a previous policy had been cancelled.
As the investigator explained the law concerning the answering of questions required by an 
insurer is covered by the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). This imposes duties on the applicant like Ms L here and the insurer namely Ageas. 
Ageas duties are that it must ask the question, Ms Ls duties are that she must answer all 
questions honestly. If a question isnt answered honestly and truthfully, then Ageas is 
entitled to take several different actions provided in CIDRA. 
First, there must be evidence of misrepresentation in answering a question for CIDRA to be 
relevant.  As the investigator detailed in his view, its clear the broker might well have asked 
Ms L the right question, but they didnt appear to record the answer on the form that they 
sent to Ageas. This tells me it was likely that the broker misrepresented this issue. So, I 
consider there was misrepresentation as required by CIDRA.
Secondly, once the fact that a misrepresentation has been established, then under CIDRA it 
needs to be a qualifying misrepresentation. This means here that Ageas needs to show it 
would have acted differently had it known about Ms Ls previously cancelled policy. Ageas 
has shown us that its underwriting guide is clear that had it known Ms L previously had a 
policy cancelled by another insurer, it wouldnt have offered to provide a policy to her. 
Therefore, I consider this was a qualifying misrepresentation.
Because its a qualifying misrepresentation Ageas must decide whether the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or just careless. Here it rightly decided it was careless 
given the involvement of the broker. Because Ageas decided it was careless it is entitled to 
cancel the policy as if it never existed, but it must return the premium paid. It did this as it 
refunded the broker the premium that Ms L paid for the policy, for that broker to pass on to 
Ms L. 
Lastly because the policy is now cancelled as if it never existed that means Ms L has no 
cover for her claim in January 2020.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman