DRN-3081160
The complaint
Mrs M says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. Mrs M says that she had other 
lending when Morses approved the loans. She thinks it shouldve seen this and not lent 
to her.
  
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld in part. But 
I did so for different reasons, and I upheld different lending. A copy of the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. This forms part of this final 
decision. 
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Mrs M between 
July 2017 and November 2018.
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 07/07/2017 £200 20 08/11/2017
2 01/09/2017 £300 33 28/03/2018
3 08/11/2017 £500 33 29/06/2018
4 12/06/2018 £400 20 10/11/2018
5 10/11/2018 £800 33 28/06/2019
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think that Morses had irresponsibly lent 
loans 1 and 2. But she thought that the repayments were too great a proportion of Mrs Ms 
income for loans 3 to 5. And this couldve led to Mrs M being unable to sustainably make these 
repayments. She thought Morses shouldnt have approved these loans.
Morses agreed in part with what the adjudicator said. It said that the repayments for these 
loans were relatively low at 25% of her disposable income. And there were no payment 
problems. So, it didnt agree to pay compensation for loans 3 and 4.
It did agree that it shouldnt have approved the much larger loan 5. It made an offer of 
compensation for this loan. This was in line with what the adjudicator recommended. Mrs M 
didnt accept this offer.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I provisionally think the offer Morses has made for loan 5 is a reasonable way to resolve the 
complaint overall. Ive included this in my putting things right section below. I wont consider this 
loan in detail in this decision.
Ive looked at the sale of loans 1 to 4 in more detail below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mrs M provided when she completed her loan applications 
for all of these loans. Mrs M had a weekly income, on average, of around £280. And it was 
recorded that she had regular weekly outgoings of around £140. So, it wouldve been 
reasonable for Morses to think that the loans were affordable for Mrs M.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs M mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the 
information it obtained, at least for the earlier part of the lending. Im not intending to uphold Mrs 
Ms complaint about loans 1 to 3.
By loan 4 Mrs M had been using this type of lending for around 11 months and there was no 
appreciable break in her indebtedness. Sometimes she had more than one loan running at the 
same time and the amounts she borrowed had increased.
So, I think Morses couldve realised at that time that Mrs M may have some longer-term financial 
problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. Morses 
shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mrs Ms true financial 
situation. So, I think its checks shouldve gone further than they did at this point.
But Mrs M hasnt provided any information to show me what Morses wouldve likely seen if it had 
made better checks. So, I cant say for certain that it wouldve seen that loan 4 wasnt affordable 
for her. Because of this Im also not intending to uphold Mrs Ms complaint about loan 4 for this 
reason.
Our adjudicator thought that repayments for loans 3 and 4 were too great a proportion of
Mrs Ms declared income. I can see why she said this. Mrs M was paying around £40 a week 
against a recorded income of between £245 and £277. This is a fairly high proportion of what 
could reasonably be described as a modest income.That said, Mrs Ms expenditure was recorded as being around £130 a week so she did have 
some spare money. There had been no obvious repayment problems at this point and the 
lending pattern itself wasnt, in my view, problematic. And going forward, Mrs M was able to 
repay the loans without a problem. So, I also dont think its fair to uphold Mrs Ms complaint 
about loans 3 to 4 for this reason.
So overall, I think Morses decisions to lend for loans 1 to 4 were likely to be reasonable. Im not 
intending to uphold her complaint about loans 1 to 4.
But, Im intending to uphold Ms Ms complaint about loan 5 for the same reasons as the 
adjudicator said. I agree that the compensation Morses has now offered is reasonable.
Morses, and Ms M received my provisional decision. And neither had anything to add after 
theyd seen it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Mrs M didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I still think 
Morses shouldnt have approved loan 5. I wont add anything further to my provisional 
decision as no one has commented on what I said. 
  
Putting things right
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs M loan 5.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs M towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mrs M the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mrs Ms credit 
file in relation to loan 5.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses 
should give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she 
asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, I partly uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman