DRN-4166477
The complaint
Miss D complained through a representative that Novaloans Ltd (Novaloans) provided her 
with a loan without conducting the correct affordability checks.  
 
What happened
Miss D was advanced two loans and Ive summarised her borrowing in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £600.00 29/04/2021 25/08/2021 4 £243.70
2 £700.00 31/08/2021 24/09/2021 4 £281.47
Novaloans considered the complaint, and it didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this response, 
Miss Ds representative referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. He said Novaloans 
had carried out proportionate checks which indicated Miss D would be able to afford the 
loans. 
Miss Ds representative didnt agree. As no agreement has been reached, the case was 
referred for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Novaloans had to assess the lending to check if Miss D could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Novaloans checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ds income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Novaloans should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss D. These factors include:
Miss D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss D. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Miss Ds complaint because there were only two loans and I agree. 
Novaloans was required to establish whether Miss D could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss D was able to 
repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ds complaint.
Before these loans were approved, Novaloans asked Miss D for details of her income, which 
she declared as being £2,998 per month for loan one and £3,050 for loan two from her full-
time employment. As these were her first two loans and it was early in the lending 
relationship, I think it is reasonable for Novaloans to have relied on what she declared.   
Miss D also declared monthly outgoings of £1,650 for loan one and £1,430 for loan two. This 
expenditure was broken down across a number of different categories for example rent, 
loans, credit cards, food and utilities. Again, as before with the income it was entirely 
reasonable and proportionate for Novaloans to have relied on the information it received. 
This left Miss D with sufficient disposable income to afford the largest loan repayment of 
£281.47. So, I am satisfied that the loans looked affordable.  
In addition, before the loans were approved, Novaloans says it also carried out a credit 
search. It is worth saying here that although Novaloans carried out a credit search there isnt 
a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
The summary of the results Novaloans received was provided in the final response letter. 
For both loans, it knew that Miss D wasnt insolvent and didnt have any active or satisfised 
County Court Judgements. It also knew that in the previous 12 months Miss D hadnt 
defaulted on any accounts. 
For loan one, Miss D had 15 active accounts with a total debt balance of £14,003 and she 
was utilising 82% of her available credit. For loan one it also knew that there hadnt been 
active payday loans within the last six months and there were also none outstanding at the 
time. 
The results for loan two were similar, Miss D had 16 active accounts. Her outstanding 
balances had reduced and her available credit had significantly reduced to 47%. Once 
again, Novaloans was informed that there hadnt been any active payday loans either 
opened or currently active within the last six months. 
Overall, there was also nothing in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Novaloans 
to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Miss D had provided. So, while her representative has provided copy bank statements, I 
think it wouldve been disproportionate for Novaloans to have asked for them at the time. 
Overall, for the start of the lending relationship, where the checks were proportionate and the 
loans looked affordable, I dont think Novaloans needed to do anything more to satisfy itself that Miss D could afford to repay the loans. And there wasnt anything else either in the 
credit checks or the way Miss D repaid loan one to make Novaloans think that the lending 
would be unsustainable for her for any other reason.   
Given this, I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint about Novaloans decision to advance the 
loans. 
 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman