DRN-3580712
The complaint
Mr S complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG Insurance (NIG) settled 
his claim on his property insurance policy after an escape of water. 
What happened
Mr S was the leaseholder of a property that formed part of a block, that he rented out to four 
tenants. In May 2021 he made a claim on the property insurance policy he had that was 
underwritten by NIG. The claim included the necessary repairs and alternative 
accommodation for his tenants. 
NIG accepted the claim and eventually a cash settlement was agreed for the repairs. 
However NIG declined the part of the claim for the damaged laminate flooring as it said the 
floor wasnt glued to the ground so wouldnt meet the definition of a building fixture as laid 
out in the policy. It also said alternative accommodation would be capped at 25% of the 
rebuild cost of the property which it valued at £147,000.
Mr S wasnt happy with the decision on the laminate flooring or the alternative 
accommodation and he made a complaint. However NIG didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this, 
he brought the complaint to this service. He said that he also felt NIG should pay 
compensation for the delay in settling the claim and interest on the amounts it should have 
paid at the time. 
While our investigator was considering the complaint, Mr S provided an email from his 
contractor confirming that the laminate flooring had been stuck under the beams and 
skirtings, so wasnt easily removed. Based on this our investigator recommended NIG 
accept the claim for the flooring and consider it in line with the remaining policy terms. 
However she thought the calculation used for the rebuild value of the property was a fair one 
so didnt think NIG should pay anymore for alternative accommodation. And didnt agree 
interest or compensation was due. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
After the complaint came to me, I reviewed the available information and largely agreed with 
our investigators outcome. However I thought that Mr S had done enough to show he had a 
valid claim for the laminate flooring, so instead of considering the claim I thought NIG should 
reimburse Mr S the amount it cost to replace. 
NIG agreed to my recommended outcome. However Mr S didnt. He said he thought interest 
should be paid on the amount since the date he paid it until it was settled. And he still felt 
that compensation was due for the slow progress in settling the claim.
Ive considered Mr S comments, along with all other available evidence, when reaching my 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that there are four areas he is concerned about in this claim. Ive addressed 
each of these in turn below.
Laminate flooring
NIG initially declined Mr S claim for the laminate flooring, as it said that as it was a floating 
floor and not glued to the ground, it wouldnt meet the definition of a fixture and should be 
dealt with under separate contents cover Mr S may have. 
The policy states that it covers: 
Structure of the house, bungalow, block of flats (including fixtures & fittings) owned by you 
or for which you are legally responsible which has been declared to us and which we have 
accepted under this insurance...
And it defines fixtures and fittings as: 
Fixtures and fittings of the property including:-
Built-in furniture and built-in ovens and hobs, fixed glass and sanitary ware, pipes, ducts, 
tanks, wires, cables,
switches, fires, boilers and storage heaters, all of which are permanently fixed.
Wall, floor or ceiling coverings, (other than carpets), all of which are permanently fixed.
Any of the above items awaiting permanent fixture to the buildings within a reasonable 
period of time.
So I agree that if the laminate flooring isnt fixed to the ground, it wouldnt reasonably meet 
the above definition and would therefore not fall under policy cover.
At the time it first assessed the claim NIG asked for the opinion of its loss adjuster and 
contacted Mr S contractor who quoted for repairs to determine if the laminate floor was fixed 
or not. Both confirmed that it was not glued down. Mr S contractor stated in an email:
When I visited [the property], there was laminate flooring, floating style - clicks, not glued to 
sub floor
 
So based on the available evidence at the time, I think NIG acted fairly by declining the 
claim. 
However, since the complaint has come to this service, Mr S has provided further comment 
from his contractor and our investigator also contacted him directly. He has confirmed that 
the laminate flooring was difficult to remove because was stuck and under the beams and 
skirtings in all walls. Weve provided this information to NIG and Ive recommended that it 
pays Mr S the full amount for the replacement laminate floor, which it has agreed to do. 
Based on the new information, I think this is a fair resolution. 
Interest
Mr S thinks that because he has been without the money for the laminate flooring, he should 
be paid interest on the amount to make up for the time he has been without the funds. Ive considered his comments and while this service would usually consider adding interest 
for money that a customer has already spent, I dont think this applies here. This is because 
I think NIG acted fairly by declining the claim based on the information it had at the time it 
assessed it. And it is only since the new information from Mr S contractor has been 
available that I think it should have reasonably been aware that its initial decision was 
incorrect. As that information only came to light after Mr S brought his complaint to this 
service, I dont think it would be fair to penalise NIG for the time between when it made its 
initial claim decision and when the new information was available. I therefore wont ask NIG 
to pay interest on the amount Im directing it to reimburse for the laminate flooring. 
Alternative accommodation and rebuild cost
Mr S has said that he doesnt think NIGs settlement for alternative accommodation is fair. 
As he thinks the rebuild cost it has based the policy limit on, is too low. 
At this service, it isnt our role to say how much a property would cost to rebuild, but instead 
to assess whether NIG has come to its valuation fairly. 
NIG has shown that it used a reliable guide that is commonly used in the industry. And this 
guide calculated the rebuild cost as follows:
a basic quality flat of the same size with minimal facilities might be rebuilt for £120,000 
while an excellent quality flat might cost £174,000 to rebuild
NIG initially used the lower end of the valuations, however later agreed to go with the 
midway point - £147,000. Mr S has argued that his property should be valued at the higher 
end as it should be classed as of excellent quality. However this tends to be considered 
where the property has bespoke fittings and fixtures that are of above average quality. From 
everything thats been provided, Ive not seen that Mr S property would reasonably meet this 
description. And I think NIG has acted fairly by agreeing to the mid-range of the valuations. 
Mr S has since provided a more recent valuation from the same guide, as well as providing 
one from a contractor that values the whole block. Ive considered these but they dont 
change my position. When assessing this complaint, I need to decide if NIG made a fair 
decision at the time. And it wouldnt be fair to base my decision on new valuations that have 
been put together now, as prices may well have increased since the claim was made. Both 
reports provided by Mr S were produced in 2022, so it wouldnt be fair to ask NIG to change 
its decision based on these, as they werent available at the time of the claim. 
Mr S has said that even if inflation of around 7% is taken from the valuation provided by a 
surveyor, it is still higher than the valuation NIG settled on. But I dont think thats a fair way 
to reach a valuation. Partly, because many building costs have increased far above inflation, 
so it would be difficult to calculate what the difference would be. But also the valuation he 
has provided is for the entire block, which he has divided between properties, which isnt a 
reliable way of reaching the rebuild cost for an individual unit as it doesnt take into account 
communal areas or parts of the building. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that NIG followed a fair process when reaching the valuation 
of the rebuild cost for the property, and therefore when calculating the limit for alternative 
accommodation under the policy. So I wont ask it to do anything differently in this regard. 
Compensation 
Mr S thinks that NIG unnecessarily delayed payment of the claim settlement and that it 
should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience this has caused. Ive considered this and I dont agree compensation is warranted in the circumstances. While 
I appreciate its taken some time for Mr S to get a settlement for the claim, large claims of 
this nature do often take many months to validate and settle. In order to say compensation 
was due, Id need to be persuaded that NIG caused delays to the process that could have 
been avoided. And having reviewed the timeline of the claim, the correspondence and 
accounts from both sides, Ive not seen anything that persuades me this is the case. So I 
wont ask it to pay compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr S complaint and require NIG to pay Mr S £3,922.29 
for the laminate flooring. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman