DRN-4367505
The complaint
Miss M is complaining about FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finances 
decision to lend to her  she says the loan was unaffordable.
What happened
In April 2018, Miss M took out a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo, via a broker, to 
finance the purchase of a car. She borrowed £11,200 over a 60-month term, with monthly 
repayments of £263.43. Miss M first missed a payment in August 2018 and then continued 
to struggle with payments over the remainder of the agreement.
In September 2022 Miss M complained to MotoNovo, saying she didnt understand how she 
was accepted for the loan and noting that she wasnt accepted for a phone contract in the 
same year. She said shed told the business she was paying for a wedding and felt she was 
mis-sold as shes struggled to make payments right from the start of the loan. In addition 
Miss M said shed paid a deposit of £600 which didnt show on the hire purchase agreement.
In response, MotoNovo said Miss M had declared that she was employed in a full-time 
capacity and working as a manager. They said theyd carried out a credit search and 
although Miss M had an active and defaulted creditor she didnt fall outside of their lending 
and risk criteria.
MotoNovo added that that theyd reviewed Miss Ms statements in addressing her complaint 
and their view was that the hire purchase agreement was affordable for her at the time. They 
said they were aware shed started to miss payments but assumed this was due to a change 
in her financial circumstances.
In relation to the deposit, MotoNovo said this was between Miss M and the dealer. They said 
the dealer had told them the cash price was £11,200, which matched the amount theyd lent 
to Miss M.
Miss M wasnt happy with MotoNovos response so she brought her complaint to our service. 
She said she wasnt properly told about the amount of interest shed be paying on top of the 
amount she was borrowing. She said the dealer took very little information over the phone, 
and the form filled in said she was single with no children and a manager when in fact she 
wasnt a manager, was getting married, and had a child. Miss M added that shed paid a 
deposit of £600 but neither the dealer nor MotoNovo can tell her where that went. Since 
taking out the agreement she says shes had to go without essentials some months to pay it 
and is still in arrears. Miss M said MotoNovo hadnt helped her at all when shed told them 
she was in financial difficulties. 
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint  she said although she 
didnt think MotoNovo had carried out proportionate checks, its likely that if they had done, 
the agreement would have appeared to be affordable for Miss M. Miss M didnt agree with 
our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision  and the complaint came to 
me.
My view was different from that of our investigator so I issued a provisional decision. In that I 
said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did MotoNovo carry out proportionate checks?
MotoNovos checks were very limited. They did a credit search which they said showed 
Miss M had one active and one defaulted creditor. Miss Ms application said she had a 
gross income of £20,000 per year and lived with her parents but Ive seen no evidence 
that MotoNovo considered Miss Ms circumstances when deciding to lend to her. Even if 
they did take her income and residential status into account, CONC 5.3.1.(4)(b) says a 
firm shouldnt rely on a statement of income from a customer.
In short, Im satisfied MotoNovo did not carry out proportionate checks when deciding to 
lend to Miss M. They were lending her a significant amount of money which required 
payments over a five-year period. And Miss Ms credit file showed limited experience of 
managing credit and a default on one of the few lines of credit she did have. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest MotoNovo considered Miss Ms ability to sustainably make 
repayments under the agreement.
If MotoNovo had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved MotoNovo finding out more about Miss Ms 
income and expenditure to determine whether she would be able to make repayments in 
a sustainable way. 
Ive looked at statements for Miss Ms bank account for the three months preceding her 
application to MotoNovo  January, February and March 2018. Im not saying MotoNovo 
needed to obtain bank statements as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of 
other information, bank statements provide a good indication of Miss Ms financial 
circumstances at the time the lending decision was made.
During the period I reviewed, Miss M was planning a wedding with her partner who lived 
and worked away. So there are large sums of money going into and out of her account for 
this. I havent taken these transactions into account when considering Miss Ms 
sustainable disposable income. In addition Miss M and her partner frequently sent each 
other money too, but Ive discounted these amounts because theres no indication Miss 
Ms partner was contributing towards her normal expenditure on a regular basis  on 
balance it seems that excluding the wedding funds, Miss M sent her partner more than 
she received from him. 
The bank statements show that Miss Ms net income from earnings, tax credits, child 
benefit and housing benefit averaged around £1,675 per month. The statements also 
show Miss M paid rent of £560 per month. From correspondence with Miss M and looking 
at her bank statements Ive been able to establish that her outgoings on other essentials and financial commitments were around £940 per month. It seems her disposable income 
was therefore only around £175 per month. 
Its also clear from the bank statements that Miss M was struggling to stay on top of her 
finances at the time  there were unpaid direct debits in January and March, and an 
unpaid standing order in February. This is consistent with what Miss Ms told us  she 
said she had to borrow money to pay her bills, both from family members and from 
payday loans. And, aside from the wedding, Ive seen limited evidence of discretionary 
expenditure in Miss Ms statements.
In summary, Im inclined to say Miss M had disposable income of around £175 per month 
at the time MotoNovo decided to lend to her. But the repayments necessary under the 
loan agreement were £263.43 per month. So I dont think the agreement was affordable 
for Miss M. 
Did MotoNovo treat Miss M unfairly in any other way?
Part of Miss Ms complaint is that she didnt know at the outset how much interest shed 
be paying, or the total amount shed need to pay MotoNovo under the agreement. And 
shes said she paid a £600 deposit on the car which isnt shown on the agreement. 
The hire purchase agreement was arranged by the dealer who sold Miss M the car, 
acting as a credit intermediary, or broker. It was their responsibility to explain the terms 
and conditions of the loan to Miss M so I cant say MotoNovo treated Miss M unfairly in 
this respect. In addition, Ive seen the application sent from the dealer to MotoNovo and 
this says there was no deposit. So I also cant hold MotoNovo responsible for any missing 
deposit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M accepted my provisional decision and MotoNovo didnt provide any further 
comments or evidence  so my decision is unchanged. Im upholding Miss Ms complaint for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
As I dont think MotoNovo should have approved the lending, its not fair for them to charge 
any interest or other charges under the agreement. Miss M should only have to pay the 
original cash price of the car, being £11,200 according to the hire purchase agreement. 
Anything Miss M has paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Miss Ms complaint, MotoNovo should do the following:
Refund any payments Miss M has made in excess of £11,200, representing the 
original cash price of the car. They should add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding the 
agreement.If MotoNovo consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should provide Miss M a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Miss M can 
reclaim that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. FirstRand Bank Limited trading 
as Motonovo Finance need to take the steps Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman