DRN-2880834
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lowell Financial Ltd is reporting outstanding balances on her 
accounts after telling her the balances would be zero. Miss B is unhappy with the way in 
which Lowell handled her accounts.
What happened
Lowell Portfolio I Limited bought several accounts in Miss Bs name and appointed Lowell 
Financial Ltd to manage the accounts on its behalf. For ease, I will refer to Lowell Financial 
Ltd as Lowell and Lowell Portfolio I Ltd as Lowell Portfolio in this decision. 
Miss B explains that due to problems with her mental health, she fell into financial difficulties. 
She is very unhappy that after Lowell told her that it would close her accounts with a zero 
balance, her credit report still shows outstanding balances. Miss B says she gave Lowell 
very personal details about her situation and she would like it to do what it promised. Miss B 
is unhappy that the CEO of Lowell didnt respond to her complaint emails. 
The investigator explained that she couldnt consider all the accounts that Lowell held as 
some didnt fall within our jurisdiction.
The investigator didnt recommend that Miss Bs complaint be upheld.  She thought it was 
reasonable for Lowell not to update the credit file entries to zero. She was satisfied that 
when Miss B complained to the CEO of Lowell, an advisor from the customer support team 
made contact to offer help. Although the investigator appreciated it was upsetting for Miss B 
to explain her situation to several people, she didnt think Lowell had done anything wrong.
Miss B is unhappy with investigators recommendation. She thinks its inaccurate for Lowell 
to report balances on her accounts after it closed them. Miss B wants Lowell to give her the 
deeds of assignment to show that it now owns the accounts. Miss B says that she hasnt 
received any documents relating to one of the accounts that Lowell says it bought.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Miss Bs response to the investigator it looks to me that she remains concerned about 
two aspects of her complaint. First that Lowell is reporting balances on her credit file after 
saying the accounts would be closed with zero balances. Secondly, that Lowell failed to 
provide deeds of assignment to show that it bought the debts in her name. I will focus my 
decision on these outstanding concerns.
I should also make it clear that this service can only consider Miss Bs complaint as it relates 
to two of the accounts  one that was originally with a business I will refer to as J and the 
second that was originally with a business I will refer to as V. This is because the other 
accounts relate to telecommunication debts which dont fall within our jurisdiction. 
Outstanding balances
Lowell told Miss B that, as a gesture of goodwill, it had taken the decision to close the 
accounts as of August 2020. I can see in its letter to Miss B that Lowell listed the balances 
as zero. But Im satisfied the same letter also said that if defaults had been entered in 
respect of the accounts, the unpaid balances would remain. 
I appreciate Miss B has been in contact with another lender who she feels responded more 
sympathetically to her situation. Just because another lender decided to remove an entry 
from Miss Bs credit file, doesnt mean that Lowell must do the same. As Miss B didnt settle 
the outstanding accounts, I cant find it wrong that Lowell continues to report the defaulted 
balances. 
Lowell says it has since marked the debts as partially satisfied to indicate that it doesnt 
expect to receive further payments. This seems reasonable. I dont require it to do more than 
this.
Deed of assignments
Its not a matter for this service to decide whether a debt is legally enforceable. That is for 
the courts to decide. I consider that Lowell had reasonable grounds to believe that Miss B 
owed the money on the accounts previously held with V and J. And Im satisfied that Lowell 
Portfolio owns the debts that it asked Lowell to manage, as it sent Miss B notices of 
assignment when it took the accounts over from V and J.
Although Miss B wants to see the deeds of assignment for the accounts, I cant say that its 
unreasonable of Lowell not to give her copies.
As a regulated business, Lowell must follow the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its handbook known as CONC explains what a business should do when it buys a 
debt. The relevant rule is:
CONC 6.5
(1) Where the rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a 
firm, that firm just arrange for notice of assignment to be given to the customer; 
(a) as soon as reasonably possible
In 2019, the High Court decided that where two parties to the assignment (here thats V and 
Lowell Portfolio and J and Lowell Portfolio) consider the debt to have been validly transferred 
 and notify the debtor  thats enough for the assignment to be considered valid. And for the 
new owner to acquire the right to collect the debt. Lowell Portfolio decided to appoint Lowell 
to manage the debts going forward which it is entitled to do.
It follows that I dont require Lowell to provide the deeds of assignment. If Miss B still wants 
to see copies, she would have to make an application through the courts.
Overall, I dont consider that Lowell has acted unreasonably so I dont require it to take any 
further steps in respect of Miss Bs complaint. 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman