DRN-2381952
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1992. 
Mr P says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to B&B throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into this complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. 
Mr Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I think B&B made it clear enough that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because I was shown his original mortgage application where he made 
a selection by writing YES directly next to a yes/no choice about having PPI with his 
mortgage. In my view, Mr P would have been easily able to see this was a choice and he 
didnt have to select this option if he didnt want to. 
I therefore think B&B properly obtained his consent.
Theres no evidence B&B recommended the PPI to Mr P as part of an advised sale, so it 
was for Mr P himself to check that the PPI was right for him. B&Bs responsibility was to 
provide information that was clear enough for Mr P to make an informed choice.
Its certainly possible the information B&B gave to Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
might have been, but I think its clear he knew the policy was in existence and hed bought it 
after being told the main features of the cover. Mr P appears to have been eligible for the 
PPI cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these policies. 
We asked for his financial and personal circumstances as of 1992 to be clarified as the 
information initially provided wasnt clear enough  but we were sent nothing back. 
We were also initially told by his representative that Mr P had a whole years salary worth of 
savings available to him at the time. It was implied this made the PPI of no use to him. 
However, no evidence or details were provided of these savings and in my experience this 
would represent an unusually large sum, given Mr Ps age and the fact he was buying a new 
home. There is no evidence such a sum existed after the sale and in any event, as Ive said, 
the decision about whether he needed PPI was one for Mr P to make. 
The PPI cover also wasnt too dissimilar, in my view, to what Mr P reasonably thought he 
was buying from the information he was most likely given at the point of sale, and there was 
nothing about Mr Ps employment or circumstances which would have made it difficult for 
him to claim. At around £12 per month, it also looks like the insurance was affordable for 
him. As the mortgage was insured against Mr Ps home, the PPI could have been useful if 
something went wrong. Because of all these things Im afraid I dont think Mr P would have 
declined the cover even if B&B could have done a better job at explaining certain things.
Mr Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be only general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant B&B should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ps representative failed to explain how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I 
have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ps particular case. But they 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P.
my decision
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint or make any award in favour of him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman