DRN-2725866
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how Markel International Insurance Company Limited Markel dealt 
with two claims he made under his site insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L was undertaking a self-build project and took out a site insurance policy. 
In 2019 he made two claims under the policy. The first was for damage to the ground floor 
tiling and the second, for damage to the roof of an outbuilding. 
On each occasion Markel instructed a loss adjuster to visit the property and provide a report 
on the cause of the damage. The loss adjuster said the damage to the tiles was caused as 
they were incorrectly laid and the damage to the roof was due to defective materials and 
workmanship. Markel explained to Mr L that neither claim would be covered due to an 
exclusion on the policy for defective materials or workmanship.
Mr L was unhappy with Markels decision and the time the claims had taken. He asked a 
tiling expert to provide a report on the tiles, which also concluded they were laid incorrectly. 
Mr L said hed been told the tiler did this deliberately as he had a grievance with his 
employer. Mr L therefore thought the claim should be covered as it was malicious damage. 
For the roof, Mr L explained the construction had been inspected at the time of completion 
and no defects were found or concerns raised. Markel considered what Mr L had said but 
wasnt minded to alter its decisions.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint but let Mr L know she didnt think Markel had acted 
incorrectly when it declined the claims.  She confirmed the policy contained an exclusion for 
poor workmanship and was satisfied Markel had applied this correctly. Having reviewed the 
claims, she also didnt think there were any undue delays caused by Markel. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. When 
doing so he reiterated many of the points hed made previously. 
The case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has raised a significant number of points and has posed various questions of both 
Markel and this service. My role as an ombudsman is to decide how a complaint should be 
resolved, quickly and informally. That means I will focus my investigation and decision on 
what I consider the crux of the issue to be. I may not comment on everything Mr L has said 
or asked, unless I consider it relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm I 
have thoroughly read and considered all the evidence presented by both parties.
For Markel to rely on an exclusion in the policy, it must be able to show that it reasonably 
applies.
The site insurance policy has different sections. In Section 1  Construction Project, it 
explains what is and isnt covered under that section. Under the heading What is not 
covered it explains no cover is provided for the costs to replace, repair or rectify any part of 
the insured property which is in a defective condition due to a defect in the design plan, 
specification, materials or workmanship of it. Markel has relied on this exclusion when 
declining both of Mr Ls claims. 
The tiling claim
Ive considered both of the reports available to me and Im satisfied they attribute the cause 
of damage to the fact the tiles were incorrectly laid. 
Because of this, I dont think Markel has acted unreasonably by saying the above exclusion 
applies. 
Mr L has said he was told the tiler did it deliberately and has produced an independent 
statement to this affect. Markel has considered this, but it hasnt changed its decision on the 
claim. 
While the statement Mr L has been able to provide may assist with any action against the 
builder directly, I dont think it impacts Markels decision here. The damage is due to poor 
workmanship and as such, the exclusion can be reasonably applied. 
The roof claim
Mr L has said the damage to the outbuilding roof was likely caused by the various storms the 
country experienced in the early part of 2019. One of which was severe enough to fell a tree 
near to the property, which was owned by the council. 
Mr L mentions he first noticed and reported the damage to Markel in July 2019. He reports 
there was standing water on the roof after a period of heavy rainfall and damage to the 
edges of the roof.
The report from the loss adjuster identified areas of ponding on the flat roof and areas where 
the roof was not performing as it should. They put the cause of this down to the poor manner 
in which the roof was installed. I can see the report is detailed and gives the loss adjusters 
rationale for the decision made. Markel is entitled to rely on the opinion of experts and 
therefore I dont think it has acted unreasonably here by relying on this report. 
I understand the roof was only completed about nine months before Mr L noticed the issues 
and hes said that it was inspected at this time, with no issues being found. 
I cant say how detailed the inspection was that took place at the time, and the emails I have 
seen dont specifically refer to this or confirm the quality of the roof installed. 
Having reviewed all of the information available to me, I think Markel has acted reasonably in 
applying the exclusion and declining Mr Ls claim on this basis.
Delays and service providedMr L has made several points about the poor service he believes he received from Markel 
and other businesses involved in this claim and performance of various sections of the policy 
concerned. I can confirm under this decision Ill only be considering the actions of Markel.
Having reviewed the timeline of events I think Markel dealt the claims in a timely manner.  
Mr L has pointed to a period of time between August and September where he doesnt feel 
there was any progress on the claims.  I can see he was regularly asking for updates and 
was told the matter was still being considered.  Im satisfied based on what I have seen that 
was the case. There is always an element of inconvenience in claims and they can take 
some time to resolve, this doesnt necessarily mean something has gone wrong or there is 
an avoidable delay.
Mr L has described the policy as being an All Works/Risks policy and that Markel has acted 
incorrectly by manipulating circumstances to fit an exclusion of poor workmanship. He has 
said given that most of the problems self-builders would experience would be due to poor 
workmanship, he questions the point of the policy. Mr L says he found the claims process 
stressful and he has explained he has been traumatised by the whole experience.   
Ive concluded Markel acted reasonably in applying the exclusion it did to the claims and I as 
Ive explained above, I dont intend to interfere with this. I understand Mr L has raised a 
complaint about how the policy was sold and marketed to him, and this is being considered 
under a different complaint reference at this service. I wont therefore be commenting further 
on this here.
I was sorry to hear Mr L describe the impact this experience has had on him and he has my 
sympathies. However, I havent been able to establish that Markel acted incorrectly here, or 
it did anything which makes me believe any compensation payment is due to Mr L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Markel International 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman