DRN-3120299
The complaint
Miss A complaints about advice provided to her in 1992 when Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited advised her to transfer her occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension.
She says that she has lost out financially due to this advice and would like to be put in the 
position she would now be in if it were not for the unsuitable advice.
What happened
In 1992, Miss A was provided with advice from Sun Life  it advised her to transfer out of her 
occupational pension scheme and to invest in a personal pension.
In 1994, the then regulator, The Securities & Investment Board, established an industry-wide 
review of pension advice, including advice on transfers that had happened between 
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994.
This was generally known as the "Pensions Review". As part of the process businesses 
were required to identify and write to their customers to ask whether they wanted to have the 
sale of their policies reviewed, and if so to complete and return a questionnaire in order to be 
included in the review.
As Miss As pension transfer happened during this time, it was subject to the Pensions 
Review. 
In December 2000, Sun Life wrote to Miss A with the outcome of its review and offer of 
compensation. Miss A accepted this offer in January 2001. As compensation could not be 
paid into Miss As pension, a separate policy was set up to receive the funds.
Miss A then complained to Sun Life in 2021, who didnt uphold her complaint, and then 
brought her complaint to this Service in April 2021.
Our Investigator looked at the complaint  but didnt think that it should be upheld. Miss A 
didnt accept the answer our Investigator provided, but our Investigator explained that the 
additional points she had raised didnt change the view they had reached.
Miss A then requested a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. I know that this will be 
very disappointing for Miss A as she clearly feels very aggrieved by the events as 
mentioned. So, Ill explain the reasons why.
The crux of Miss As complaint is that she is unhappy with the original advice provided by 
Sun Life to transfer her pension  she says that although she accepted the findings of the 
Pension Review at the time, she didnt understand what she was doing, and that she has 
now found herself worse off as a result of the transfer. She says that while Sun Life may 
have completed the review back in 2000, her occupational pension would now actually be 
worth much more than the value of the separate policy which was set up in order to 
compensate her for what went wrong as part of the review. 
While I can appreciate Miss As frustrations, and I can understand why she feels she had 
been financially disadvantaged, unfortunately I dont think that this service can do any more 
for her than has already been done.
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off process which was based on what the 
regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, using reasonable assumptions for 
future growth rates. These assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determining 
things like future investment returns, and were designed to put Miss A back, or as close to 
the position she would have been in if she hadnt transferred her pension. Businesses 
carrying out the reviews were also subject to internal and external quality checks by the 
regulator. 
Some of those assumptions, in particular relating to expected growth rates, havent come to 
realisation. But this isnt a reason to undertake the Pension Review once again. It was 
designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a business such as Sun Life was able to 
provide redress for instances of mis-selling, but also so that it knew that it wouldnt have 
additional unknown liabilities in the future. This was important for the stability of the industry 
and consumer confidence in financial services more generally. But it was also designed to 
reassure consumers such as Miss A.
Ive seen the Pension Review letter sent to Miss A where is has explained the outcome of 
the review  and I can also see that Miss A was informed at the time that if she was not 
happy with the outcome reached, details were provided of our predecessor, the Personal 
Investment Authority Ombudsman if Miss A wished to complain.
But Miss A decided to accept the redress that was offered to her. While I appreciate that she 
says that she didnt really understand what she was signing, Miss A couldve sought advice 
at this point to make sure she understood what she was agreeing to but didnt.
And as redress has already been paid to Miss A on this matter to put things right, and the 
advice she received has already been considered under the rules that were in place at the 
time under the Pension Review, Im unable to make any further comment on the original 
advice provided to Miss A that she is still unhappy with.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, hasnt set out any new requirements for a 
new review to be completed. So, Im unable to direct Sun Life to re-do the calculations for 
compensation that it did back in 2000.
I know that Miss A has said that she has compared her current pension provisions with that 
of a friend with similar levels of contributions who did not transfer their pension  and that 
she is drastically worse off. She also says that this has only come to her attention after many 
years abroad  and that as she approaches retirement, she has become increasingly 
worried about her retirement income.
But Im only able to consider Miss As complaint and pension here  I cant compare her 
situation to that of any other individual. And while she has my sympathy for the situation she 
now finds herself in, for the reasons set out above, I cannot uphold her complaint as she would like.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2022
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman