DRN-3022619
complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out alongside a personal loan in 2004. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Halifax has been able to give me a copy of the loan agreement that 
Mr and Mrs B signed. In this, there was a separate section for PPI that had a yes or no 
box  and I can see there was an X printed in the yes box. Looking at this, I think it was 
equally clear they could have selected the no box if they didnt want the cover. 
Underneath this, the monthly cost of the PPI was set out. Ive considered the fact that the 
X was printed onto the page. Mr and Mrs Bs other information, such as their names and 
address, was also printed onto the page, So I think its more likely this page was printed 
following a discussion about their circumstances. And Mr and Mrs B signed the page to 
agree to its contents. Mr and Mrs B selected for the PPI to cover Mr B only. On balance, 
I think its more likely Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the policy, knowing they didnt 
have to.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr B was 
eligible for the cover and although he had some savings available to him, I still think he 
could have found the policy useful. It could have covered him for up to 12 months if he 
was made redundant, or indefinitely if he was too sick to work. Mr B had no sick pay 
available to him at the time, so I think he had a need for the cover.  
There was nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect their ability to claim. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs B as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs B would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman