DRN-2912766
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Intrum UK Limited has acted unfairly when trying to collect a debt. 
 
What happened
Mrs S has explained that the debt in question came about in relation to a family business 
that closed. Mrs S had a credit card in her personal name and has told us it was used for 
business expenses. But the card was closed and defaulted by the original lender. The debt 
was later sold by the original lender and Intrum has sought to collect the outstanding balance 
from Mrs S. 
In 2019 solicitors acting for Mrs S contacted Intrum about the debt and asked it to stop 
contacting her directly to request repayment. In November 2019 the solicitors forwarded an 
income and expenditure assessment that showed Mrs S outgoings were around £950 more 
than her income. The solicitors asked Intrum to consider a partial settlement. 
On 21 January 2020 Intrum confirmed it was willing to accept around £14,500 to settle the 
debt, a reduction of 30%. Intrum heard back from the solicitors on 29 February 2020. The 
solicitors said regular monthly repayments werent affordable for Mrs S but she was willing to 
pay £8,000. Intrum emailed the solicitor back on the same day to confirm it wasnt willing to 
accept £8,000 but would accept the partial settlement previous offered. 
Intrum received further contact from the solicitors at the end of March 2020. Mrs S partial 
settlement offer was reduced to £4,000. On 16 April 2020 Intrum responded to the solicitors 
and confirmed it wouldnt accept £4,000. Intrum asked the solicitor to respond with further 
options. An email chasing a response from the solicitors was sent on 19 May 2020. 
Intrum says that as no further contact was received from the solicitors it started to 
correspond directly with Mrs S again in June 2020. Mrs S solicitors contacted Intrum again 
to ask it to stop corresponding with her. 
On 14 July 2020 Intrum emailed Mrs S solicitors and said it had contacted her directly after 
no further responses to previous emails had been received. Intrum reiterated it rejected the 
offer of £4,000. 
In August 2020 the solicitors email address was updated incorrectly. As a result, Intrum sent 
an email on 4 August 2020 to the wrong email address and it wasnt received. The email 
explained Intrum may start to contact Mrs S directly again if no response was received. 
Intrum went on to contact Mrs S directly about the debt. 
A complaint was made and Intrum apologised. It explained an administrative error meant the 
email it sent to Mrs S solicitors wasnt received and offered £75. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service and has explained she wants to agree a 
settlement with Intrum. Our investigator said its up to Intrum to decide what settlement to 
accept. But the investigator agreed Mrs S had been unnecessarily distressed by contact 
from Intrum and increased the compensation to a total of £175. Intrum accepted but Mrs S 
didnt and asked to appeal. Mrs S explained that Intrum has evidence of her income and 
outgoings and that various settlements had been offered. As Mrs S asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by confirming the investigators view that we cant tell Intrum to accept a 
partial settlement from Mrs S. Whether Intrum is willing to reduce the amount required to 
settle the debt is a matter for its commercial judgement. I can see that Intrum agreed to 
accept 70% of the outstanding balance in January 2020 (totalling around £14,500) but a 
month later the offer was reduced to £8,000. And around a month after that, the offer was 
reduced further to £4,000. Intrum has consistently confirmed its unwilling to accept a partial 
settlement in line with those offers and Im satisfied thats a decision its entitled to make. 
Mrs S has pointed out she submitted an income and expenditure assessment via her 
solicitors so Intrum is aware of her circumstances. I take Mrs S point, but the assessment 
was sent to Intrum in November 2019 and in her submissions shes explained her 
circumstances have changed. I also think its reasonable to note that the assessment Intrum 
received showed Mrs S had no capacity to make monthly payments because there was a 
deficit of around £950 a month. Based on the information provided, there was no option for 
Intrum to offer Mrs S a monthly payment to settle the debt. 
I can see Intrum took the step of contacting Mrs S on several occasions after her solicitor 
became involved. But I think that reflects the lack of responses Intrum received in some 
cases. I can see the solicitor made partial settlement offers but after they were rejected 
Intrum didnt always hear back. Given the outstanding balance, I think Intrums decision to 
contact Mrs S directly was reasonable. As Ive said above, I agree the contact after the email 
address wasnt updated correctly in August 2020 was unreasonable. But prior to that, Im 
satisfied Intrum acted fairly. 
Mrs S has told us her circumstances have changed and that she was furloughed from work. 
Mrs S has also asked how she is meant to repay the amounts being requested. I would 
recommend that Mrs S engages with Intrum directly or via a third party to complete a new 
income and expenditure assessment with a view to checking what options are available. As 
Ive said above, it isnt the role of our service to negotiate partial settlements, so I cant tell 
Intrum to accept less than the amount owed. And I cant tell Intrum not to continue to pursue 
legal action against Mrs S if no agreement can be reached. 
I agree with the investigators view that Mrs S complaint should be upheld in part. Intrum 
has agreed to pay Mrs S a total of £175 in recognition of the impact caused by contacting 
her directly last year. In my view, £175 fairly reflects the impact of Intrums error on Mrs S, so 
Im going to endorse the investigators award and uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Intrum UK Limited to pay Mrs S a total 
of £175, less any compensation already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 Marco Manente
Ombudsman