DRN-3042929
The complaint
Mr W is seeking to recover approximately £59,000 from Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays), 
which was stolen from his current account as a result of a third-party scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in June 2021 to explain why I thought Mr Ms complaint 
should not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. This 
is an extract from my provisional decision: 
In January and February 2018 Mr W sent three payments totalling £58,754.02 to an 
account he believed was associated with a legitimate investment firm. He told us he had 
previously made some legitimate investments with an investment firm, which Ill call 
business A, through a man, who Ill refer to as Mr A. He explained that Mr A put him in 
touch with another man, who Ill call Mr B. He received calls and emails from Mr B 
purporting to be able to help him invest his money through his investment firm, which Ill refer 
to as business B. Mr W said he was subsequently bombarded with calls and emails from Mr 
B who put enormous pressure on him to invest. He explained that when he made all three 
payments he was in branch, but he wasnt questioned on the nature of the payments or 
given any advice on how to recognise this as a scam. 
Mr W has told us that he was vulnerable due to severe mental ill-health, and that the bank 
should have been on notice of this and done more to protect him. 
Mr W realised he had been scammed when he made numerous requests to withdraw money 
from his investment and the person he was speaking to either made excuses or ignored 
these requests. 
When Mr W complained to Barclays they refused to refund the transactions. They said Mr W 
had made the transactions himself and theyd followed the correct procedure in branch. They 
said that Mr W hadnt shown appropriate levels of care or conducted due diligence and 
pointed to the fact that the scammer had sent the emails from a personal email address. 
Mr W remained unhappy so he came to our service. Our investigator reviewed what 
happened and recommended that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. She said this because whilst 
she accepted Mr W had made the payments, she didnt think that Barclays had met the 
standard required in their obligation to protect Mr W from fraud or financial harm. 
Barclays reviewed our investigators opinion. They agreed that they would refund Mr Ws 
losses from the scam. But they felt the payments to and from business A were part of the 
same scam. This included payments out of £25,000 in September 2017, and payments into 
the account in January and February 2018 which amounted to £70,520.96. They said this 
because: 
£25,000 was sent to business A in September 2017 and returns of £70,520.96 were 
paid into Mr Ws account in January and February 2018  Barclays said this would 
have been an impossible rate of return given the climate at the time;
The payments made to business A were debit card payments  but the fourth return 
was paid via a bank transfer. This could only be a refund or a partial refund from an 
bank transfer payment sent from Mr Ws account  which is the method used to pay 
business B. So Barclays say this shows the link between business A/Mr A, and 
business B/Mr B. 
They suggested that Mr A had sent this money to make Mr W believe he was dealing 
with a genuine investment firm.  
So, they felt that the money sent and received in relation to Mr A and Mr B should be 
considered when calculating the total loss to Mr W, and the subsequent redress they would 
pay. They offered to refund £13,233.37 plus 8% interest and to pay £400 in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience they had caused to Mr W. Mr W maintained that the 
payments into his account were legitimate returns on his investments with business A, and 
so were his funds and should not be considered when calculating his loss. Our investigator 
also didnt agree with what Barclays had said, so it has come to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am minded to reach a 
different conclusion to the one already set out by our investigator. Ill explain why. 
I do not doubt that Mr W was the victim of a sophisticated and cruel fraud. I was very sorry to 
read of the circumstances Mr W found himself in, particularly given that he was already 
struggling with severe mental ill-health at the time of the scam. But the question that I must 
consider here is the extent to which Barclays can be considered liable for the loss. 
I do agree with our investigator that Barclays should have done more to prevent Mr W from 
making the payments on his account. In doing so, I believe they could have recognised the 
scam and prevented Mr W from making the payments in January and February 2017. From 
my reading of Barclays response, I think they have broadly agreed by offering to refund 
some of the money and so I dont intend to go into this point in depth again as part of this 
provisional decision. The matter that does remain in dispute is whether the credits into Mr 
Ws account in January and February were part of the same or a linked scam, or whether 
they were his genuine returns from an unconnected successful investment   and what this 
means for the redress to be paid by Barclays. 
This has not been a straight forward matter to consider. Mr W explained that the £25,000 
paid out of his account to business A was to a legitimate investment firm, and that the 
£70,520.96 coming into his account were the returns on those investments. According to the 
FCA database, business A are a genuine investment firm. However, they were known to 
have been cloned prior to 2017  meaning fraudsters were using the name and details to 
appear that they were working for business A in order to get money from members of the 
public. So I have to consider whether I think that the payments to and from business A were 
to the legitimate firm, or to a fraudster as part of the same scam that Mr B was conducting. 
Having done so, I do think the payments were part of the same or a linked scam rather than 
relating to a legitimate investment, I say this because: 
The fourth payment into Mr Ws account was a refund made by bank transfer  and I 
can see that the payments to business A were made by direct debit. But the 
payments to business B were made by bank transfer payment  so the fourth 
payment in was most likely made as a refund or partial refund to one of the payments 
made from Mr W to business B. I cannot see how this would be the case if business 
A and business B were not linked. And I dont think a genuine investment firm would be linked to a scam investment firm in this way. 
Mr A has provided a series of emails from Mr A, and the email address he sent these 
from does not appear on the list of spoof email addresses contained within the FCA 
warning about the cloned firm. Having considered this, I cannot say whether its more 
likely than not  that these were sent from the legitimate firm as a sophisticated 
scammer can falsify email addresses or hack into genuine ones  which could be 
what has happened here. 
I also agree with Barclays that this does seem to be a highly unlikely rate of return on 
his investments with business A. In Mr Ws initial call to us he said hed received 
some returns after his first payment, but that he had now realised this was bait to 
entice him to send further payments. And I think this is more likely what happened 
here.
Ive not seen evidence that Mr W did have genuine investments with business A. 
Prior to reaching my final decision I would ask Mr W to provide any such evidence, 
and we will try and ascertain with the legitimate business A as to whether Mr W was 
ever a customer of theirs. 
Having considered all of this, I am minded to say that the specified payments in and out of 
Mr Ws account from September 2017 to February 2018 are related to the same scam. And 
so I think it is fair for Barclays to deduct the money that was paid to Mr W, from his overall 
losses. I say this because he received significant sums of money into his account as part of 
the scam and so I dont think it would be fair for him to end up in a position where he has 
profited from the complaint. 
Ive also considered the offer of a payment in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr W by Barclays. There is no amount of money that can undo what has 
happened to Mr W. And I do appreciate that not having this money for this prolonged period 
of time has caused Mr W great anguish. Whilst most of this is the fault of the scammers, I do 
think that Barclays could have done more to help Mr W  and when considering this I think 
the offer of £400 is fair in the circumstances. 
Having considered all of this, I am currently minded to say that Barclays offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I want to stress that I feel considerable sympathy for what Mr W went through here. But 
unfortunately, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint him, Im not persuaded that the money 
paid into his account was returns from a legitimate investment. 
my provisional decision 
For the reasons explained above, I am currently minded to say that Barclays offer is fair and 
reasonable, and so if nothing changes I will be asking Barclays to pay Mr W: 
£13,233.37 plus 8% interest; and
£400 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr W got in touch and provided more evidence and testimony including: 
Information showing that the contact details he had for Mr A, and that these werent 
detailed on the FCA warning for company A. He explained that this man was a 
legitimate employee of company A, but had conspired with the other man to defraud 
him. 
Photos of emails and information from when he set up his account with company A, 
including login details for a platform to view his investments. 
Mr W emailed company A and left an online review. He has provided a photo of a 
phone screen which appears to contain a response from company A to this. It 
appears to say following reading his post and email that they wanted more details 
after hed notified them that hed sought to withdraw £50,000 and £20,520.96 and 
had not received the funds. 
Mr W explained that whilst company A had been cloned, this was back in 2013 and 
he was adamant he dealt with the genuine firm. He pointed to the fact a scam 
company would most likely have taken the £25,000 immediately from him, and not 
then put more substantial funds into his account. 
A chart showing that the type of cryptocurrency he was investing in had spiked 
around the time he was selling it, explaining the high rate of returns he had managed 
to receive despite the short time he had invested; 
A detailed chronology of events  which covered his first contact with company A, 
contact with Barclays to sell some shares to fund his new investment, his contact 
with company A, the payments out from company A, details of how the man from 
company A put him in touch with the man from company B, and how he was 
persuaded to send money to him. 
Mr W explained that the man at company A, the scammer and Barclays were all 
aware of his severe mental ill-health and the fact he had tried to take his own life, and 
preyed on him due to his vulnerability and confusion. He explained that he didnt 
have the ability to reason at the time. 
I invited Barclays to review the additional evidence Mr W had submitted in order to provide 
any additional comments. They said that they took on board that the crypto currency Mr W 
was or thought he was investing in fluctuates to a high amount, but they felt this still didnt 
explain why the company would have paid Mr W in two different methods. They showed 
again that the first three payments purporting to be from business A were debit card 
payments, but the final payment was made by bank transfer as the payments to company B 
were. They explained that this fourth payment could not be related to the debit card 
payments to company A as it would have been paid by debit card like the other profits  
and was most likely a refund or partial refund from payments to company B. They said this 
difference in payment methods would not be the practice of a legitimate firm and so they still 
felt that company A and company B were both part of the same scam.  
Barclays also said that whilst they accepted that Mr As details were not listed on the FCA 
warning list, the list was not exhaustive and it was possible that the scammer had spoofed a 
genuine number and email. They felt it was clear that company A had been targeted by 
fraudsters attempting to clone the company for financial gain. Barclays said it considered my 
provisional decision was the fair and reasonable outcome to this case still, even after they 
had reviewed the new evidence Mr W provided. I also asked our investigator to make contact with the genuine company A to verify whether 
Mr W had been a customer of theirs, but our investigator was unable to do so despite 
making attempts to.  
Having considered all the additional evidence and testimony, I am afraid to say that my mind 
hasnt significantly changed from when I wrote my provisional decision regarding Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ill turn first to the evidence Mr W has provided in support of his assertion that he was 
dealing with the legitimate company A. Mr W is correct that the contact details he used to 
correspond with Mr A are not listed on the FCA warning. I had considered this within my 
provisional decision and I remain of the opinion that this detail doesnt mean he was dealing 
with the legitimate company A. I also am not persuaded that Mr W was dealing with the 
legitimate company A by the email with the login details for a platform. Whilst I accept these 
look quite professional, unfortunately sophisticated scammers are able to spoof email 
addresses, create platforms to log in to and appear to work for legitimate firms. This is why 
these types of scams are unfortunately so successful. So whilst I appreciate these details do 
make it appear that Mr W was dealing with the legitimate company A, they are not enough to 
convince me that this was the case. Similarly, the response to his email and online review for 
what appears to be the legitimate company A do not provide me with conclusive evidence 
that he was their customer. It appears they asked for his account number and I cant see that 
Mr W had provided this  so it may be that the genuine company replied but it doesnt show 
that he was their customer. 
I do accept that the cryptocurrency spiked in value around the time that Mr W tried to sell it. I 
saw within the emails with Mr A that this is what led Mr W to be adamant that he wished to 
withdraw the funds from that particular investment. Mr A did try and dissuade him from doing 
so, but Mr W had seen the increased value so wanted to get his money out. So the 
substantial deposits were made into Mr Ws account. Which brings me to the reason that I 
dont think Mr W was dealing with the legitimate company A. As I outlined in my provisional 
decision, and Barclays pointed out in their submission following my provisional decision - the 
final payment was made via bank transfer, unlike the payments to company A and the first 
three payments into his account. And I see no reason for a legitimate firm to pay in different 
ways. Further to this it appears that the fourth payment was linked to the second set of 
payments to company B  and was a refund or partial refund of one of the payments made 
to the second account. As I explained in my provisional decision, I see no reason for a 
genuine investment firm to be linked to a scam firm in this way. So I think it is most likely that 
the payments all formed part of the same scam. 
I agree that it was somewhat unusual that the scammers would pay such significant amounts 
into his account. I cant say exactly why they would have done this  though I have 
considered it carefully. As Mr W himself has pointed out, Mr A and Mr B were aware of how 
vulnerable he was and preyed on the fact he was struggling with his mental health and ability 
to reason. I think it is likely they were confident in their ability to manipulate him, and so they 
were willing to send this money to him as they felt satisfied that they could get it back. It is 
also possible that this served an ulterior purpose such as laundering the funds through 
another account. So, whilst I do think it was unusual  unfortunately this is not enough to 
persuade me that these payments werent part of the same scam. 
I would like to reiterate that I am sorry to read about everything that Mr W has been through. 
I know that this decision will come as a disappointment to him after all that he has gone 
through because of the cruel and callous fraudsters. But my final decision remains that 
Barclays offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Barclays offer is fair and reasonable, and so I am asking them to 
pay Mr W: 
£13,233.37 plus 8% interest from the time of the loss to the payment; and
£400 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman