DRN-3110566
The complaint
Miss O complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Mr Lender provided Miss O with four loans between August 2018 and August 2020. The 
table below sets out details of the loans.
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount
1 20/08/2018 20/03/2019 6 £500.00
2 26/03/2019 20/08/2019 3 £400.00
3 22/08/2019 20/03/2020 6 £500.00
4 06/08/2020 18/12/2020 3 £200.00
Miss O says that the loans werent affordable and that adequate checks werent carried out 
before the loans were provided. She said that she felt encouraged to borrow by the texts and 
emails she was sent saying she could reapply for loans. She says this put her into further 
debt.
Mr Lender issued a final response letter dated 27 May 2021. It said that before the loans 
were provided affordability, employment and credit checks were all carried out. It said that 
these checks were proportionate to the amount being lent and that based on the information 
received the loans were affordable for Miss O. It said that Miss O didnt tell it of any financial 
difficulties at the time of the loans and the loans were repaid without requiring an alternative 
repayment method such as a repayment plan or any assistance from any third party firms. 
Mr Lender did, however, offer to remove the loans from Miss Os credit file.
Miss O didnt accept Mr Lenders response and referred it to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that loans 1 and 2 shouldnt 
have been provided. But he thought that by loan 3 there were signs that Miss O was 
struggling to repay her previous loans. He noted that Miss O was borrowing shortly after 
repaying her previous loans and thought there was a significant risk Miss O wouldnt be able 
to sustainably meet her monthly repayments for this loan  and any subsequent loans.
In regard to Miss Os complaint about being sent marketing and promotions even though she 
had asked to opt out, our investigator said he hadnt seen evidence to show that Miss O had 
explicitly opted out and so he didnt uphold this part of her complaint.
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that Miss O made one deferral on 
her first loan and then made the deferral payment on time. It said on the second loan Miss O 
made a deferral at the start and then a further deferred payment. It didnt think this was 
enough to suggest Miss O was in financial difficulty. It noted there was then a break of over 
four months between loans 3 and 4 which it thought, given the early stage in the lending 
relationship, meant a new lending chain had been started. It said that checks were carried 
out before the loan which suggested it was affordable.
While, Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view it did provide a counter offer to 
Miss O upholding loan 3. Miss O didnt accept Mr Lenders offer and so, as this complaint 
hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before the first two loans were provided, Mr Lender gathered information about 
Miss Os income and expenses. Miss Os monthly income was recorded as £1,400 
and she provided information about her expenses, including other credit 
commitments. I noted that a significant amount of Miss Os monthly income (over 
£500 for each loan) was being used to pay other credit commitments, but I didnt find 
that this alone was enough at this stage in the lending relationship to say that the 
loans shouldnt have been provided.
I thought the checks carried out before the first two loans were provided were 
proportionate. As these suggested the loan repayments were affordable for Miss O, I 
didnt find that I had enough to say these loans shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 3 was provided two days after loan 2 was repaid (and loan 2 was provided six 
days after loan 1 was repaid). By this time Miss O had been borrowing from Mr 
Lender for around year without any breaks and the amount she borrowed in loan 3 
was the same as the amount she borrowed for loan 1. Before this loan was provided, 
Miss O had needed to defer a payment on her first loan and two payments on her 
second loan (although I noted the comments about the first deferral being at set up). 
Based on this I thought there were signs that Miss O was struggling to manage her 
money and that this loan may not have been sustainably affordable. In response to 
our adjudicators view Mr Lender offered to uphold loan 3 and I found this 
reasonable.
There was then a break in Miss Os borrowing of over four months. I noted Mr 
Lenders comments about this, but as Miss O had been borrowing from it for around 
a year and a half by the time loan 3 was repaid I didnt think that the break was long 
enough to say that a new lending chain had been started at loan 4.
As I thought loan 3 shouldnt have been provided I needed to see improvements in 
Miss Os financial situation in order to say that it was reasonable that loan 4 was 
provided. Miss Os repayment history on loan 3 showed that she deferred a payment 
in November 2019 but then maintained the subsequent payments. I noted that loan 4 
was for a smaller amount. However, given how long Miss O had been borrowing from 
Mr Lender, that this was her fourth loan and that it was taken out within a few months 
of her repaying loan 3, I thought that Mr Lender should have carried out further 
checks before loan 4 was provided to fully assess whether Miss Os financial 
situation had improved.
Mr Lender carried out further income verification before loan 4 was provided by 
asking for Miss Os payslips. This confirmed her income as being around £1,500. 
However, had more detailed checks taken place, Mr Lender would have realised that Miss O was still struggling to manage her money and that her financial situation 
hadnt improved. Miss O was using her full overdraft (and had exceeded it shortly 
before the loan) and was making use of other high cost lenders at the time. 
Therefore, I thought that had further checks taken place Mr Lender would have 
realised that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Miss O.
I upheld this complaint regarding loans 3 and 4.
Miss O accepted my provisional decision and Mr Lender confirmed it had no further 
information to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I have used this 
information in considering this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think I have enough to say that loans 1 and 2 
shouldnt have been provided. However, I do not find it reasonable that Mr Lender provided 
Miss O with loans 3 and 4.  As no new information was provided in response to my 
provisional decision my conclusions havent changed. I am upholding this complaint 
regarding loans 3 and 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss O after loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss O may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss O in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss O would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I am upholding this complaint in regard to loans 3 and 4, PDL Finance Limited trading as 
Mr Lender should:refund all interest and charges that Miss O paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about loans 3 and 4 from Miss O's credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans 3 and 4. PDL Finance 
Limited trading as Mr Lender should take the actions set out above in resolution of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman