DRN-4048853
The complaint
Miss B complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) decision to decline her buildings 
insurance claim.  
What happened
Miss B says her roof collapsed following a storm, so she made a claim to AXA. AXA 
investigated the claim together with a loss adjuster and engineer. AXA declined the claim on 
the basis it was unrelated to the storm and, therefore, not an insured peril. Miss B 
complained about AXAs decision and they responded and explained there were a number 
of factors they took into account when declining the claim. They said Miss Bs house was the 
only property on the road which suffered a roof collapse. They said, without evidence of a 
significant external force having caused the damage, that in itself indicates the root cause of 
the damage is more likely to be specific to Miss Bs house. AXA also explained, while there 
were storm conditions around the time of the damage, a different area was affected by the 
most severe winds and this was also two days before the roof collapse. AXA said, at this 
time, the weather reports show a maximum gust of 49mph and moderate local rain in the 
area. AXA said the weather reports for Miss Bs area didnt indicate sustained periods of 
high wind. AXA also explained, a day before the roof collapsed, the weather reports show 
17mm of rainfall in a 24-hour period with a maximum of 7.4mm within a one-hour period. 
They said, while the rainfall within this period is high, its not unprecedented or extreme and 
a well maintained roof, in sound condition, wouldnt have been damaged by these 
conditions. AXA also explained no other properties in the area suffered similar damage. 
AXA explained insurers, loss adjusters and structural engineers are required to investigate 
and assess damage caused by extreme weather conditions on many occasions. They said, 
it was their collective experience that during extreme storm events, roof tiles are initially 
stripped off the roof by high winds before theres any movement of the roof structure. And, to 
the extent that theres any damage to the roof structure of a building, they dont fail in the 
manner that the roof of Miss Bs house failed. AXA explained street view images of Miss Bs 
house are indicative of a progressive and long-standing issue with the roof. They explained 
their engineers report also showed the roof collapse was a gradually operating issue. AXA 
explained the view of their appointed engineer was that the roof had collapsed due to the 
combined factors of increased loading from the roof tiles and the gradual failure of the 
original roof timbers, the weight of the concrete roof tiles having caused the rafters and 
purlins to deflect.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. He thought AXA hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. Miss B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Miss Bs home insurance policy. This covers her property for loss or 
damage caused by storm. The policy also says, under the heading General Exclusions, 
AXA wont cover damage caused by gradual deterioration, wear and tearor other 
gradually operating causefaulty materials, design or workmanship So, Im satisfied that 
AXA shouldve looked into Miss Bs claim because she reported the damage was caused by 
a storm. Ive then looked at whether AXAs decision to decline the claim for the roof damage, 
and their reason for doing so, is fair and reasonable.      
In order for us to consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three 
questions: 
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, were likely to uphold the complaint. But if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met 
due to storm conditions.
In weighing up the first question, I note Miss Bs policy doesnt define storm. But, in the 
response to the complaint, AXA accept there was a storm condition resulting in high winds 
and rainfall around the time Miss Bs roof collapsed. That means the answer to the first 
question is yes.   
 
I can also answer yes to question two. High winds and high rainfall can damage property, 
so Im satisfied the damage claimed in this instance is consistent with damage typically 
caused by a storm.
Turning to the final question, I now need to consider whether the storm  in this case the 
high winds and rainfall - was the main cause of the damage in this instance. Insurers often 
appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and thats what AXA 
did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for AXA to rely on the report when 
deciding whether to meet the claim. In this case, AXA instructed structural engineers  who 
Ill refer to as company G  to attend Miss Bs home and prepare a report. 
The report says the engineer carried out internal and external observations and also 
obtained street view images. From the images, the engineer says they were able to see 
the progressive deterioration of the building and roof structure. They refer to images 
taken over three years before the storm event which they say shows for the rear of the 
property you can see that the ridgeline of the property is starting to dip slightly and the first 
row of tiles have fallen away They refer to images taken over two years before the storm 
event which they say shows signs of cracking and movement of the masonry over the first 
floor windows. and general deterioration of the roof structure and a lack of maintenance. 
The engineer then refers to images taken three months before the storm event and says 
these images show the cracks and separation of the stonework are much more 
pronounced. and the dip in the ridgeline is very pronounced with a downwards 
movement of approximately 200-250mm.  
The engineer then concludes Based upon the information that we have been able to gather 
from historic imagery we are under the impression that this roof collapse was a gradually 
operating issue that has been occurring over the past 5-6 years at the very least. The 
engineer has then gone further and described how they believe the roof collapsed  in this 
case they believe the additional weight of the concrete roof tiles over the additional slates 
has overloaded the original roof structure. The engineer says this led the roof structure to 
become deflected beyond its capabilities and the rafter feet have broken their connection 
with the ceiling joists and they slipped out causing the collapse. They comment more specifically on how the external observation supports their findings on how the roof likely 
collapsed. The report says, Based upon all this information we conclude that the damage, 
though this may have occurred during a period of moderately high winds, this was the event 
of the collapse but in our opinion not the reason of the collapse.
Taking this into account, I cant say AXA have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the 
claim. AXA have instructed a suitable expert here to investigate the damage and theyve 
relied on the experts findings to arrive at their decision. 
I can see Miss B has provided estate agents reports which she says dont mention any 
leaks prior to the roof collapse. These are Inspection and condition reports which comment 
on the overall condition and cleanliness of each room. Ive reviewed these and, while I agree 
they dont make reference to any leaks, the issue here relates to the structure of the roof 
prior to the storm conditions. It might well be the case that the roof wasnt allowing any water 
to leak through prior to the storm, but this doesnt prove there wasnt a gradual deterioration 
of the roof structure over time. 
Miss B has provided a report from a company of chartered surveyors and valuers  who Ill 
refer to as company D. The report has been prepared by a chartered surveyor and says 
company D have been instructed to provide an independent survey report on the cause of 
the roof collapse and is based on a roadside inspection. They also say theyve been 
provided with a copy of company Gs report. The surveyor says the street view images do 
confirm the presence of cracks and distortions to the front wall as well as some lack of 
maintenance to the front elevation. The surveyor says these would only be relevant if the 
front section of the roof had collapsed, but they arent relevant here and have nothing to do 
with the collapse of the roof on the rear elevation of the property. The surveyor says the dip 
in the roof doesnt appear to have worsened when comparing the street view images from 
three years before the storm to the images taken a few months before the storm. The 
surveyor says The roof would have collapsed on or before March 2019 if the sag in the roof 
is of any structural significance. The roof structure has weathered various storms, snow, 
heavy rainfall, high winds, and other weather conditions and the sag did not worsen. Hence 
the sag in the roof has got no bearing on the collapse of the roof on the rear elevation.  
The surveyor also says, the fact that the front elevation roof and the roof ridge timber 
remained intact after the collapse, demonstrates that the sag in the roof ridge had nothing to 
do with the collapse of the roof on the rear elevation of the property. The surveyor concludes 
the rear elevation of the roof collapsed and everything pertaining to the support of the rear 
elevation roof slope failed instantly at the same time. And, The effect is as if a giant pair of 
hands suddenly reached out of the skies and pushed the entire rear elevation roof slope into 
the loft space. The surveyor also says, It is only a sudden gust of wind hitting the rear roof 
slopes at a very high speed that can cause the type of catastrophic collapse evident in the 
rear roof slope. The surveyor says its possible the gust of wind which caused the damage 
is related to the storm which affected the area where Miss Bs property is located. The 
surveyor says I am of the opinion that the collapsewas not a gradually operating issue. It 
was an instantaneous event caused by a sudden gust of wind. 
Given the conflicting findings around what factor/s were responsible for the roof collapsing, 
Ive weighed up the reports to conclude which should be given more weight by deciding 
which, on balance, is more persuasive. I am sorry to disappoint Miss B but I find company 
Gs report most persuasive  and I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly, I think its 
important to note here company G employ structural engineers  and this is the team who 
prepared the report. Company D are chartered surveyors and valuers. Given that the 
specific issue which is in dispute here relates to the structure of the roof and mechanism of 
the roof collapse, Im persuaded this is an area which falls more within the expertise of a 
structural engineer.  I note Miss B says the company G employee who carried out the inspection wasnt a 
qualified structural engineer and she has provided a screenshot from a social media page 
which describes this employee as a Graduate Structural Engineer at company G. I do 
acknowledge Miss Bs points about whether this makes this employee an expert or qualified, 
but I can see he does have letters following his name which shows he is a member of the 
relevant professional body for civil engineers. AXA maintain this employee is a qualified 
structural engineer. 
In addition to this, AXA say the information the employee provided was reviewed by senior 
members of their engineering team before the report was produced as a collaborative effort. 
Im persuaded this is the case as the report has been signed by another employee at 
company G whos described as a Senior Engineering Technician. I do acknowledge 
company G accept they made an error in the report when saying it was the Senior 
Engineering Technician who carried out the site inspection. But I dont believe this clerical 
error suggests the key findings of the report are incorrect. I note Miss B feels, the fact that 
company G didnt identify this clerical error sooner, brings into question AXA and company 
Gs competence and credibility. I do acknowledge Miss Bs point, but I dont agree the 
clerical error raises any persuasive argument which challenges the validity of company Gs 
findings.   
I can see AXA forwarded company Ds report to company G for their comments. Company G 
say company Ds report doesnt demonstrate a full understanding of weather characteristics, 
and in particular, wind. They reference company Ds finding that wind has reached out of the 
skies and pushed the entire rear roof elevation roof slope into the loft space and question 
how this is possible when all surrounding properties were left completely intact. I am 
persuaded by company Gs point here for two reasons. Firstly, the images taken by 
company G during the site inspection dont show similar  or any significant  damage to the 
neighbouring properties. I think its more likely than not that, in circumstances where storm 
conditions are the only, or primary, factor for a roof collapsing, then neighbouring properties 
are likely to sustain some damage also. Secondly, the street view images do show a dip in 
the ridgeline  and one which appears to be very pronounced. Company Gs report includes 
an image which draws a straight line across Miss Bs roofs ridgeline and that of a 
neighbouring property. The neighbouring ridgeline appears straight but Miss Bs shows, what 
appears to be, a fairly significant curve downwards. 
   
Company Ds report says that the sag in the roof would have the same effect on the front 
and rear slopes of the roof. They say, the fact that the front elevation roof and roof ridge 
timber have remained intact after the collapse demonstrates that the sag in the roof ridge 
had nothing to do with the collapse of the roof on the rear elevation. Company G have 
addressed this point and confirm the sag in the roof is a structurally significant factor. They 
say the movement of the ridge of more than 200mm is in no way within reasonable 
tolerances. They say allowable tolerances would be between 10mm to 15mm. 
They also address company Ds comment about the front elevation remaining intact and say 
the front slope remains in place because of the masonry gable. And also because, once one 
side or another fails, the forces are released and the pressure on the remaining connections 
to resist these forces is removed. Company G say, even then, the front slope didnt survive 
in any meaningful way and it would still have collapsed had it been left unattended and was 
removed for this reason. 
Company G say the masonry gable is the only thing preventing the rafter from moving 
outwards but the gable doesnt have the strength to completely resist this force which they say can be seen by the fact that the bricks on the masonry gable have been pushed 
outwards. Again, Im persuaded by company Gs comments here as theyre supported by the 
images both in terms of the sag and outwards movement of the bricks on the masonry gable. 
Im further persuaded by company Gs comments here that the front elevation wouldve 
collapsed because Ive seen the local councils Dangerous Structure Notice which says the 
roof presented a risk of front gable collapse onto the public highway and neighbouring 
properties  so a decision was taken to remove the remainder of the roof structure and gable 
as part of the make safe work completed by the councils building control.  
I do understand Miss B firmly believes company Ds findings are accurate and should be 
preferred over company Gs report. I should stress that I am not a structural engineer and 
nor do I have specialist knowledge on the structure of roofs or the mechanism of a roof 
collapse. So when considering such complaints, I take into account the opinion of the 
experts. And, thats what Ive done here. Company Gs report goes into detail when 
commenting on the roof structure and their findings are supported by the images provided. 
While I have carefully considered company Ds report, I cant see theyve provided any 
persuasive challenge to company Gs findings on the factor/s which led to the roof 
collapsing. 
Taking this all into account, company Gs report doesnt conclude storm conditions as being 
the cause of the roof collapse. Instead, it refers to factors which have occurred over time as 
being the most significant contributory factor. Given that Miss Bs policy doesnt cover any 
wear and tear, causes which have happened gradually or faulty design or workmanship, I 
cant say AXA have acted unfairly in declining the claim. Company Gs report doesnt relate 
the damage to any event which is covered in Miss Bs policy but does link it to events which 
are excluded. 
I note Miss B says the roof sag existed before she took out her policy so AXA shouldve 
requested a structural engineers report when she took out the policy. She feels, if they have 
strict guidelines on what tiles are suitable and the weight of those tiles, then they should 
request a structural engineers report before agreeing to provide cover. Miss B says this 
means the policy was never fit for purpose at the time she took it out. I do acknowledge this, 
and I understand why Miss B feels this wouldve been helpful to know at the time she took 
the insurance policy out. But our service doesnt have power to require a business to change 
their processes. Or to direct a business on the questions they should ask a customer when 
taking out insurance cover. During the sales process, insurers will generally ask questions 
which will assist them in assessing the risk the insurable item presents. So, factors such as 
what material a tile is made out of, or the weight may not necessarily be key to an insurer 
when assessing risk  particularly as the policy will cover a range of insured perils. 
Miss B has provided a letter from her estate agents which says five properties around     
Miss Bs surrounding area also suffered damage to their roof. I have taken this into account, 
and Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but this doesnt change my view. Ive mentioned above, 
the three questions our service takes into account when looking at complaints involving 
storm damage. I have to consider whether the storm was the main cause for the damage to 
Miss Bs home. 
While the letter from the estate agents says other properties were affected by the storm, it 
doesnt provide persuasive evidence that this was the main cause for the roof collapsing at 
Miss Bs property. In addition to this, I have to balance this against the information provided 
by company Gs report  and for the reasons Ive mentioned above, I find their report more 
persuasive.  
I can see Miss B has queried why AXA arent covering the subsequent damage caused 
following the roof collapsing. Miss B refers to the internal damage caused by the ingress of 
water. Miss B also raises a concern about AXA instructing her to inform the councils building control team to carry out make safe work to her property. Miss B questions why AXA have 
made decisions that adversely affect her when theyre declining her claim. Miss B feels AXA 
should be responsible for any invoices she receives from the council for the work carried out. 
I think its important to make clear my decision focusses on Miss Bs claim for the roof 
damage  and this is what has been addressed by AXA in their complaint response. Its not 
clear if Miss B has raised these additional complaints or claims with AXA but Miss B will 
need to make a claim first and, if necessary, to then raise a complaint before our service is 
able to consider these further. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B as I can see she firmly believes the damage to her roof is as a 
direct result of storm conditions. I do want to reassure Miss B that I have carefully 
considered her points and arguments and understand why she believes the storm was 
responsible for the damage to her roof. But, the evidence Ive seen persuades me that, its 
more likely than not, the damage wasnt down to the storm but was due to factors which are 
excluded by Miss Bs policy. My role here is to decide whether AXA have acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim  and from the information Ive seen, I think they have. 
 
I wish to reassure Miss B Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman