DRN-4149876
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc registered a marker about him at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr G says he found out about the marker in August 2022 when he tried to open an account 
with a different financial business. He says that he had been selling items online and hadnt 
carried out any fraud. He says that the claims made that he had received money without 
sending the items were false. The marker is affecting him now.
Santander said it hadnt made any mistake. It had received two reports that money paid into 
Mr Gs account had been obtained fraudulently. The money had been moved on by him. It 
had attempted to contact Mr G at the time by letter and phone to ask him about the 
payments. When it hadnt received a response it had closed the account and added the 
marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She thought that Santander 
had shown it met the standard of proof for a CIFAS marker and had a basis to close his 
account. It had received two separate reports of fraudulent payments  the first relating to 
several payments totalling £650 and the other for a payment of £530. Mr G says that due to 
the time that had passed he no longer had any records about the social media account he 
was using. And no records to show that these payments were sales transactions. So, while 
she understood he said he had a legitimate business at the time he hasnt been able to show 
he was entitled to this money. Santander had attempted to contact him.
Mr G didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he should have a 
claim against those wrongly reporting him for fraud and so he sees this as a civil matter. He 
hadnt updated his phone number with Santander at the time and this had cost him dearly. 
He wanted to know what other checks Santander had made and why its actions were 
reasonable with no evidence from him. He cant access his online account but can show he 
spent some £700 on postage for generally sending items around the time. Mr G said he has 
a continuing business, and this showed he is legitimate. Mr G accepted the account closure 
but thought that we should consider the wider picture given the sheer volume of trading he 
has highlighted on his accounts and the impact of the fraud marker for him which has been 
painful and damaging.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely.
Im satisfied that Santander made reasonable efforts to contact Mr G at the time. It wrote to 
him saying it wanted to discuss the payments at the address we have on record for him. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter about this dated 19 May 2021 which stated, Weve been trying 
to contact you to see if you recognise some payment activity on your account and also that 
the account had been blocked. And it called him on a number which I appreciate hes said 
he hadnt kept up to date. He was also aware that the account had been closed and given 
he was using this for his business had the opportunity from that to follow things up earlier. I 
understand that there had been a review of a previous credit that he had been able to show 
was genuine. 
Mr G has shown the scale of his business then and now. I appreciate what he says about 
his age at the time. But I also dont think it unreasonable to expect him to have some 
records even outside of any social media account. I cant know whether the buyers who 
reported him for fraud had contacted him about the issues and what he did about that. That 
seems likely before they would go to the step of contacting their own banks and explaining 
what happened. I take into account that there were two separate fraud reports involved.
Mr G has shown he now has his own company having expanded further. I appreciate that 
but Im looking at these specific payments. And Im afraid despite what he says about the 
others being made without incident and these buyers making other payments to him, I dont 
have a basis to find it most likely that he was entitled to this specific money. And that 
Santander acted unreasonably in adding the marker in these circumstances.
Santander says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr G received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Santander was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. Having reviewed Mr Gs account of events and the evidence Santander has provided, Im 
satisfied that Santander had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr G received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Santander at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Santander had grounds to believe that Mr G had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
As I result I also dont see it made any mistake in closing the account in line with its terms 
and conditions. I understand what Mr G says about the impact of the marker for him, but I 
dont have a reasonable basis to require Santander to take any further action. If he doesnt 
accept my decision he remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant 
time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman