DRN-4249672
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua registered a Q marker on his credit file.
What happened
Mr W says that Aqua had added a Q marker to his credit file. He says Aqua asked for a letter 
from a credit reference agency (CRA), which he provided to them, but they hadnt 
considered the information from them. He says Aqua didnt believe the Q marker had an 
impact on his score, but the CRA confirmed there had been an impact. He said Aqua told 
him they removed the marker, which was incorrect, but it has since been removed. Mr W 
complained to Aqua. 
Aqua partially upheld Mr Ws complaint. They said when they receive a complaint from one 
of their customers they apply a block to their account which indicates to the CRAs they have 
a complaint with them. They said this is the process they follow for all of their customers who 
have an active complaint, and the block remains on the account until the complaint has been 
fully investigated and closed. Aqua said this should not have any impact on his credit score, 
but they have no control over his credit score or how this is interpreted as this was at the 
discretion of the CRAs. They said it is most common that they may report this as a query 
marker or financial dispute on his credit file. 
Aqua said that if Mr W felt his credit score had dropped significantly solely due to having a 
complaint with them then he would need to contact the CRA to dispute this with them. They 
said due to his concern they have not reapplied the block when his complaint was reopened. 
Aqua said in order to review his concerns further, they needed a letter or email from the CRA 
(or similar company) explicitly stating that since 6 December 2022, Aquas actions have 
caused them to reapply the query marker or financial dispute to his credit file and Aquas 
actions alone have caused a drop in his credit score. Aqua acknowledged that Mr W made 
multiple calls, experienced long wait times and his credit file concerns should have been 
addressed earlier. He also didnt get a call back from a manager. So Aqua credited a further 
£110 to his account for the poor customer service. 
Mr W sent Aqua an email from one of the CRAs which said the Q marker had a negative 
impact on his score. Aqua thanked him for his patience while they reviewed his comments 
but said they had reached the end of their complaints handling process and as such cant 
continue to correspond on this issue. Mr W brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint. He said that Aqua had agreed to remove 
the block when they reopened Mr Ws complaint, but they reapplied this when he brought the 
same complaint to our service, so he didnt think this was fair. He suggested Aqua pay Mr W 
an extra £100 compensation for this. Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ws complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
I must explain to Mr W that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Aqua have investigated his complaint, 
such as when they decide their complaints procedure is exhausted does not come under my 
powers to consider. 
Id like to explain to Mr W that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as how they should indicate on an account that a 
complaint has been raised. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Aqua to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
Its important to note that Aqua arent as such registering the Q marker themselves. As they 
explained to Mr W in their final response letter, they apply a block to an account which 
indicates that they have a complaint with Aqua. They said they have no control over how 
CRAs would interpret this as this is at the discretion of the CRAs. As the evidence Ive been 
provided with from Mr W shows one of the CRAs is marking his credit file with them with a Q 
marker, but Aqua have provided us information with a different CRA who are reporting the 
same block with a U marker. So it does appear that the block on the account is being 
interpreted differently by different CRAs.
A marker of Q or U would be a neutral marker  and I know Mr W will strongly dispute this. It 
is not a negative marker such as a 1 marker (or higher number), which would indicate 
missed/late payments. But although it is a neutral marker, it can be interpreted differently by 
different lenders and CRAs. In this instance, Mr W has provided evidence from one of the 
CRAs that they have interpreted this as a negative marker. This email also contains the 
wording It is likely that a history which demonstrates repayments made on time will be more 
positive than a history that shows that some monthly repayments are being queried. The 
wording is clear that it is likely  not it is certain. So it would be out of Aquas control with 
how this CRA is reporting the block on his account and how they view a marker such as this.
Ive considered what Mr W has said about Aqua ignoring this email from the CRA. But Im 
not persuaded they did. I say this because on 2 January 2023 when they issued his final 
response letter, they asked him to provide evidence from a company who provides a credit 
report to them which explicitly states since 6 December 2022, our actions have caused 
them to re-apply the query marker or financial dispute to your credit file and our actions 
alone, have caused the drop in your credit score. But the email from the CRA does not state 
Aquas actions had caused the CRA to re-apply the query marker. And it doesnt confirm 
wording that Aquas actions alone had caused a drop in his credit score. On 10 January 
2023, they told him they reviewed his comments further, but he was at the end of their 
complaints handling process.
Aqua had also looked at another screenshot Mr W provided them regarding an account 
status changed. They said the screenshot was not confirming that they reported any arrears 
on his account, but they were simply giving an example of what a change in account status 
could be caused by. I have looked at this screenshot and Im satisfied the third party were just showing an example of what an account status change could be. It does not state that 
Aqua had reported arrears in a previous month.
Aqua have acknowledged that they let Mr W down with their customer service. They said Mr 
W made multiple calls, experienced long wait times and his credit file concerns should have 
been addressed earlier. He also didnt get a call back from a manager. Aqua paid him a 
further £110 for this which Im satisfied is fair and recognises there was an impact on Mr W.
But Aqua have let Mr W down further than the aforementioned customer service issues. I 
say this because the final response letter issued on 2 January 2023 said Due to your 
concerns, we have not reapplied this block when your complaint was reopened on 15 
December 2022. So Im not persuaded that based on this statement from Aqua that they 
should have placed the block back on his account when he brought the same complaint to 
our service, especially when they had made an exception not to do this when his complaint 
was reopened with them previously. And as stated by Aqua, they were aware of his 
concerns. So reapplying the block on his account, would cause Mr W distress. And in the 
unique circumstances of this complaint, it was not proportionate for them to do so. So Im 
persuaded that Aqua should pay Mr W a further £100 compensation for the distress they 
caused him when they told him they would not reapply the block when his complaint was 
reopened.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that Aqua pay Mr W a further £100 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should pay Mr W a further £100 
compensation for distress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman