DRN-3783175
The complaint
A representative acting for Mrs F complains that Nationwide Building Society added a joint 
account holder to a Flex account. 
What happened
Mrs F opened a Flex account ending 5152 with Nationwide in 2008. In October 2012 
Nationwide received an application to add a joint account holder to the account ending 5152. 
Nationwide says the application form was signed by Mrs F and the new account holder. 
Nationwide says it completed the relevant checks and added the joint account holder. 
Last year, Mrs Fs representative (who has Power of Attorney (POA) to act on her behalf) 
complained that Nationwide had added the joint account holder. They also complained that 
the joint account holder had been able to access the funds held in the account. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint and said it had followed the right process when 
adding the joint account holder. Mrs Fs representative referred the complaint to this service 
and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Nationwide had dealt with the complaint 
fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mrs Fs representative asked to appeal, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying Im aware Mrs F and her representative have raised a number of 
complaints about Nationwides actions. And I understand there are separate complaints 
relating to accounts that were closed. In this decision, Im only going to talk about the Flex 
account ending 5152. Im not going to discuss other issues that relate to other accounts Mrs 
F has held. 
I can see Mrs Fs representative has made a lot of points in bringing the complaint. I want to 
assure Mrs F and her representative Ive read an considered everything theyve said and 
provided in this case. Im not going to comment on each point made and raised and will 
focus on the key issues of the case. My approach reflects the informal nature of this service 
and our rules. No discourtesy is intended. 
I understand Mrs Fs representative feels Nationwide failed to follow the correct steps when 
adding the joint account holder to her mothers account in 2012. Mrs Fs mentioned that the 
joint account holder wasnt paying UK tax at the time. But Nationwides confirmed that didnt 
form part of its account opening criteria in 2012. 
Nationwides told us it received the application to add a joint account holder in October 2012. 
It says the application was completed and signed by both Mrs F and the new account holder. 
The application was approved and the joint account holder was added. I havent seen 
anything that shows Nationwide made a mistake or acted unfairly when it added the joint 
account holder. 
Mrs Fs representative has also raised concerns that the joint account holder accessed funds 
without permission. But as a joint account holder, they were entitled to access the funds in 
the account. I havent been persuaded that Nationwide made a mistake by allowing the joint 
account holder to operate the account in the same way as Mrs F. 
Im aware there are other complaints relating to closed accounts with Nationwide. But 
Nationwide has confirmed the Flex account ending 5152 was opened in 2008 and closed in 
January 2022 without break. Mrs Fs representative recently sent us a letter from Nationwide 
about an account that was closed. But that letter relates to a different account number, not 
Flex account ending 5152 which is the subject of this complaint. 
As Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with Mrs Fs complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman