DRN-1633840
The complaint 
In December 2018, Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) sold Mrs B a packaged bank 
account (PBA) called a FlexPlus account. It charged Mrs B a monthly fee for the account 
and provided her with several potential benefits in return.
One of potential benefits was travel insurance. However, the policy did not always cover 
people with pre-existing medical conditions. Mrs B had such a condition. She told the 
insurance company about the condition and it charged her an extra fee. 
Mrs B has complained that Nationwide didnt tell her she might have to pay an additional fee 
for the travel insurance. She wants Nationwide to refund her the extra fee she has paid and 
to arrange for her travel insurance to be free of further charges in future. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Bs complaint. The adjudicator didnt 
think that Nationwide had treated Mrs B unfairly and didnt recommend that it should give her 
any money back or make any alternative arrangements about her travel insurance in future.
Mrs B didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mrs Bs case. Ive looked into
everything that Mrs B and Nationwide have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
As well as travel insurance, the FlexPlus account offered other potential benefits such as 
use of a car breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. But I understand that Mrs 
B travelled quite frequently and quite widely, so travel insurance may well have been 
particularly important to her. 
It was the insurer, not Nationwide, who determined that Mrs B had to pay extra for her travel 
insurance to cover her for possible claims arising from her medical condition. But the crux of 
her complaint about Nationwide is that when it sold her the account, she says it didnt tell her 
she may have to pay such an additional fee and so treated her unfairly. 
In 2018, Nationwide, along with other building societies or banks was allowed to sell PBAs in 
two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-
advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. In both situations, as well as giving 
Mrs B a choice, I would have expected Nationwide to tell her about the accounts costs and 
benefits (and their exclusions and limitations) clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I 
would also have expected it to check if she needed the benefits which the account could 
provide. 
Mrs B has told us that Nationwide sold her the FlexPlus account during a meeting at one of 
its branches, and Nationwide has agreed with her about this. But, the two parties have 
disagreed about whether it was an advised or information-only sale. Nationwide has said 
that it sold M B the account on non-advised basis, whereas she has said that it 
recommended the account to her.
Obviously, I wasnt present at the meeting, so I cant tell for sure what happened. But I have 
seen some of Nationwides internal guidance documents and Im satisfied that it didnt 
usually make personal recommendations to customers about FlexPlus accounts. I havent 
seen anything to make me think that it changed its usual procedures for Mrs B, so I have 
considered her case as a non-advised sale. This means that Nationwide would have had to 
tell Mrs B about the limits to the travel insurance for pre-existing medical conditions, but 
wouldnt have had to check if the insurance was suitable for her. 
I have seen an example of the type of insurance policy which came with the FlexPlus 
account. The document is quite long, but towards the beginning, in a section called 
Important Information, it said:
If you have a pre-existing medical condition, please call us as we may not be able 
to cover you (for travel insurance) More details are on page 10.
The text on page 10 then said:
At the time of opening the account or before you book a journey, you can call us at 
any time to tell us about a medical condition. We will tell you if we can cover that 
condition for free, if you need to pay us an extra premium or if we cannot cover the 
condition.
 
I think these clauses are quite clear about how the insurer would treat cover for people with 
pre-existing medical conditions. Nationwide has told us that it would have given Mrs B a 
copy of the document when it sold her the FlexPlus account. This was its normal practice 
and Im satisfied that it did so for Mrs B. However, as I have already mentioned, the 
document is quite long, and it seems to me that the critical point in Mrs Bs complaint is 
whether Nationwide did enough to make sure she knew about this limitation.
Once again, I cant be certain what Nationwide said or didnt say during the meeting, but the 
guidance I have seen mentions that its sales staff should tell customers about significant 
limitations in the insurance policies that came with account. And Nationwide has also sent us 
information from its records to show that Mrs B rang the insurer to discuss her condition at 
around the time it sold her the account. Mrs B seems to have accepted that she made this 
call. So, it seems highly likely to me that Nationwide did bring the limitation is to Mrs Bs 
attention. I think probably met its obligations to her about this. 
Although Mrs Bs complaint about Nationwide has concentrated on the limitations and extra 
charges affecting the travel insurance benefit of the account, she has also mentioned mis-
selling in more general terms. So, in fairness to her, I have looked at the evidence I have 
available to see if Nationwide may have failed in other ways which could mean it mis-sold 
her the FlexPlus account. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Nationwide told Mrs B about the monthly fees. 
And I understand that she had previously held a fee-free account, so knew about some of 
the choices available to her. Shes also told us that she registered a mobile phone for insurance cover, and also made a claim; so, Im satisfied that Nationwide told her about 
other benefits of the account as well as the travel insurance. I dont think Nationwide mis-
sold the FlexPlus account to Mrs B. 
So, in summary, I am satisfied that Nationwide told Mrs B about the limits of the travel 
insurance policy concerning pre-existing medical conditions, and I dont think it mis-sold the 
FlexPlus account to her in any other way.
Finally, I understand that following Mrs Bs first call to the insurer, she rang again around ten 
months later, and that on the first occasion the insurer agreed to cover her condition without 
extra cost but on the second it charged her the extra fee. She has mentioned that this 
change seems unfair. I gather that she has complained directly to the insurer about this. I do 
not know if she intends to pursue that complaint further (and this is entirely a matter for her) 
but I would like to clarify that nothing in this decision, which is only about Nationwide, affects 
Mrs Bs complaint against the insurer. I will not speculate about the possible outcome of any 
such complaint she may choose to pursue, or on whether it would fall within out jurisdiction if 
she wanted to bring a case to us. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint about
Nationwide Building Society. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back,
or to make any alternative arrangements for her travel insurance in the future. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman