DRN-3449530
The complaint
Mr S complains that Budget Insurance Company Limited renewed his car insurance policy 
despite his instructions not to do so, and they then sent letters demanding payment.     
     
What happened
Mr S held a car insurance policy with another provider, who I shall refer to as O.
 
In 2021 O informed Mr S that they would no longer be providing insurance, and so Mr S took 
out a policy with a new provider to start on his renewal date.
 
On 16 June 2021, which was his renewal date, Mr S received renewal documentation by 
email from Budget. He responded to the e mail declining the insurance and advising he had 
alternative cover. 
He received further renewal documentation the following day, to which he again replied 
declining the cover. 
On 18 June 2021 Mr S saw that a direct debit had been taken for £38. Mr S contacted his 
bank and reversed the direct debit, and also contacted Budget by phone to advise that he 
didnt want the insurance. They told him that they didnt accept e mails and he needed to go 
though the details to cancel the policy. Mr S was unhappy about having to cancel a policy 
that he felt he didnt take out, and he terminated the call.  
On 25 June 2021 Mr S received a further letter from Budget about the missing instalment 
payment. He rang again to advise that he didnt want the policy. The call handler said they 
could cancel the policy but to cancel all charges, they would need details of his new insurer. 
Mr S would not provide them. Following the call, Budget cancelled the policy from 25 June 
2021, but didnt cancel the arrears of premium for the period of cover 15  25 June and sent  
Mr S a letter charging £67.73 comprising £9.73 premium, £38.00 arrangement fee and £20 
failed payment fee.  
Mr S complained. Budget sent a final response on 16 August, in which they said that as Mr S 
hadnt contacted them prior to the renewal date, the insurance had automatically renewed, 
and required cancellation. 
 
Mr S was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ss complaint and she thought that Budget had 
acted fairly. 
  
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent upheld Mr Ss complaint and I will explain why below. 
Mr S was insured with O from 2019. In May 2021, O sent a letter by e mail to Mr S advising 
that they were no longer offering insurance. I have seen a copy of this letter which advises 
that Budget Insurance are taking over the policy. The letter says:
To help ensure you're not left uninsured after your policy ends, we've asked Budget 
Insurance to send you a renewal invitation for the year ahead.
As with any renewal offer, it's your choice whether to accept or find an alternative. 
We've asked Budget Insurance to offer it so you have a hassle-free way to stay 
insured after your O2 Drive policy ends.
What happens next
You don't need to do anything now.
You'll receive your renewal offer in the post from Budget Insurance in around 2 
weeks. Your renewal invitation will be issued by Budget Insurance. They'll also notify 
you of any changes to your policy. Please read your renewal documents carefully to 
ensure
that the cover still meets your needs.
If you don't want to receive a renewal offer from Budget Insurance, please let us 
know as soon as you can (on the number at the end of this letter). 
I have seen evidence that this email was sent, and Mr S himself admits to receiving an email 
which told him that his current insurer was no longer offering insurance. So Im satisfied that 
Mr A had been given notice that his policy would renew with Budget unless he notified them 
in advance that he didnt want to renew the policy. 
I understand Mr Ss argument that he hadnt given authority for this details to be passed 
over, but it is clear from this letter that if you dont want to be passed over to Budget as a 
customer, or to receive a renewal from them, you need to contact them by phone and opt 
out. As Mr S didnt do this, I cant say that Budget have acted unfairly in contacting him 
about the renewal.  
 
On 19 May 2021 Mr S was sent a renewal document which included the quote. In the 
renewal documents it is clear that the policy will renew automatically, and it includes the 
bank details that will be used for the direct debit. It also says:
If you prefer not to renew your policy this way you can opt out by calling our 
Customer Service Team 
Mr s didnt contact Budget, and on 16 June 2021 the policy automatically renewed. Mr S was 
sent the renewal documents by e mail. Screen shots of Budgets system show that the e 
mail was opened. 
Mr S accepts that he received this e mail, and says he e-mailed back to say that he didnt 
want the policy. However, this would have been insufficient to cancel the policy as the e mail 
isnt monitored, and in the renewal documents it says:this is a system generated message. Please do not reply as this e mail address is 
unable to receive replies.
So, although Mr S has told us that he replied to the emails he was sent on 16 June 2021 to 
say that he didnt want the insurance, he had been told that he needed to ring, and that 
emails  wouldnt be picked up, and so I cant say that Budget acted unfairly in not cancelling 
the policy at that point. 
On 18 June 2021 Mr S cancelled his direct debit that had been taken, and he also rang 
Budget. I have listened to this call. It is clear that Mr S wants to cancel the policy, but 
unfortunately, he terminated the call before the call handler had obtained sufficient 
information and consent to cancel it. 
Mr S made a further call on 25 June 2021 which I have also listened to. In both of the calls 
Mr S says that he has not authorised the direct debit or the renewal and so he doesnt think 
there is a need to cancel the policy  as he doesnt believe one should exist. Although I 
understand why Mr S says this, it was clear that he needed to opt out of the renewal before it 
took place, which he didnt, and once the renewal had taken place cancellation would have 
been the only option. 
Despite the second call being terminated early, the call handler did assist by cancelling the 
policy. However, Budget say she was unable to remove the cancellation charges or the 
charge for the period of cover provided because Mr S refused to supply the name of his new 
insurer. They have explained that in order to remove the charge, Mr S would need to 
demonstrate that he had cover with an alternative insurer for that period because if a claim 
occurred during the time the policy was active, Budget would have been liable unless cover 
was being provided by an alternative insurer. 
I am satisfied that as there was a valid policy in place, Budgets request was reasonable, 
and they were entitled to charge the premium for the period of cover until the information 
was provided. 
Following the investigator issuing her view on this case, Mr S provided his new insurer 
details to us and we have provided them to Budget. Subsequently, Budget have now 
cancelled the outstanding balance. 
In view of that I consider that this matter has been resolved, and there is nothing further that 
Budget need to do. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Budget Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman