DRN-2203495
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc didnt inform her that the terms of her account had 
been breached meaning interest wasnt being paid. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mrs B opened an account with Santander in 2013. This was set up at that same time 
as another two accounts. Mr B has explained that he manages all three accounts. 
There is no dispute that the terms and conditions were made clear at the time Mrs B 
opened her account and the account was set up to meet the requirements (a 
minimum monthly funding of £500 and minimum of two direct debits). 
In 2015, there was an issue with the direct debits on Mrs Bs account meaning she 
lost out on some interest. Santander paid her £100 as a gesture of goodwill. As this 
issue was regarding the direct debits the requirement regarding this was known to 
Mrs B - and Mr B who was managing the account on her behalf. 
Mr B has accepted that he was aware of the terms and conditions but said that in 
2017, due to health issues, he wasnt managing the account as closely as usual. He 
didnt notice a direct debit had expired on Mrs Bs account meaning the account no 
longer met the requirements for the interest to be paid. I understand that Mr B 
believes Mrs B should have been contacted about this. However, there was no 
requirement for Santander to do this. Santander has explained there was regular 
access to the online account and quarterly statements were sent. While I can 
understand why the issue was missed for an extended time, the information was 
available to Mrs B (or Mr B on her behalf) to see the status of the account and to 
address any issues.
I note the comments made that after discussions with Santander it upheld Mr Bs 
complaint which was about the same issue. However, this complaint is about Mrs Bs 
account and so I have only considered the information regarding her complaint. 
Having done so, I do not find that I can say Santander has done anything wrong by 
not paying Mrs B the interest she missed out when her account didnt meet the 
eligibility criteria.
Mr B has also said that they werent aware that a gesture of goodwill would only 
happen once. I accept this, but it is Santanders decision about when and how it 
decides to issue a gesture of goodwill. My role is to determine whether Santander 
has done anything wrong and if so to require it to put this right. So, while I 
understand why Mr B is upset by what he feels is a lack of service from Santander, 
as I do not find it has made a mistake in this case I do not require it to take any 
further action.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman