DRN-3799629
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim under her 
pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss A took out insurance for her dog with Great Lakes starting on 4 December 2021.
On 3 November 2021 she had taken the dog to the vet and been advised about dental 
treatment.
Miss A said she then changed vets due to moving house. In July 2022 Miss A made a claim 
on her insurance because her dog had five teeth removed. After reviewing the dogs clinical 
history, Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions. 
Miss A disputed this. She said as part of a general check-up in November 2021 the vet had 
just noticed some tartar and given some general advice about seeing a hygienist. But no 
treatment was required at that time.
Great Lakes didnt change its decision. It said the vet had noticed mild tartar on multiple 
teeth in September 2021. It thought a build-up of tartar could lead to the problems Miss As 
dog had experienced.
As Miss A was unhappy with this response, she brought a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought Great Lakes had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Miss A has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss As policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover some pre-existing conditions. It 
says:
Pre-existing Conditions will not be covered unless You have declared them to Us and We 
have accepted them in writing.
The term Pre-existing Condition is defined in the policy as follows:
Any Condition for which Your Pet has been subject to examination, consultation, advice, 
X-rays, medication, surgery, nursing or other care provided by a Vet in the 24 months prior 
to the Cover Start Date 
It is not necessary for any condition to have been diagnosed for it to fall within this definition, 
but it must have been the subject of consultation, advice etc in the 24 months before the 
start of the policy. That means Great Lakes should establish that Miss As dog had been 
seen by a vet who had examined or advised on the condition which was the subject of this 
claim within this timeframe in order to rely on this exclusion. With this in mind Ive looked at 
the history of the dogs previous visits to the vet.
In September 2019 Miss As dog was seen by a previous vet who noted Mild tartar 
accumulation on multiple teeth, no signs of gingivitis, advised oral hygiene, discussed dental 
descale and polish.
This visit is outside the 24-month period for pre-existing conditions. 
On 3 November 2021 a vet from that practice noted Adv dental. O wants estimate. I take 
this to mean that dental work was recommended and Miss A had asked for an estimate. Our 
Investigator contacted the vet and asked for more information on what Adv dental might 
have meant. Unfortunately, the vet who made that comment has since left the practice and 
couldnt be contacted.
Miss As current vet advised that five teeth had been taken out as there was significant 
gingivitis and gum recession on numerous teeth.
Miss As dog didnt have gingivitis in September 2019 according to the previous vets notes. 
What is unclear is whether he had it in November 2021. But it is clear that some dental work 
was recommended at that stage. I know that Miss A disputes this but for her dogs gingivitis 
to have reached the stage where it was significant in July 2022, I think its more likely than 
not to have been evident and linked to the recommendation of dental work by the vet who 
saw the dog nine months earlier in November 2021. So, I dont think Great Lakes treated her 
unfairly in declining the claim on the ground of a pre-existing condition although I sympathise 
with her situation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman