DRN-2775642
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim she made under her 
musical instruments insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2019, Mrs M and her son placed a flute for sale with a musical instrument shop. 
This was done on the basis of a commission sale agreement, which meant that the shop 
was given authority to sell the item and to deduct its commission from the proceeds of the 
sale.
 
In September 2019, the flute was sold for £7,750. Mrs M says she and her son werent 
notified of the sale. Mrs M says £6,150 should have been transferred to them after the 
shops commission had been deducted.
After trying to contact the shop in July 2020, Mrs M discovered it had gone into liquidation. 
She says the liquidator told her the proceeds of the shops insolvency were being used to 
pay an outstanding tax bill. He advised her to contact her insurers for compensation for the 
lost instrument.
Mrs M made a claim under her musical instruments policy with Allianz, but this was declined. 
Mrs M complained to Allianz, but it stood by its decision to decline her claim. So, Mrs M 
brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. She thought Allianz had acted fairly and had declined the claim in line with the 
policys terms and conditions.
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. She said the flute was insured with the highest 
possible level of insurance that Allianz offer. It was stolen and theft is theft regardless of who 
had stolen the instrument. So, her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms of the policy cover loss or damage to insured item(s) caused by: accidental 
damage (including fire damage), theft and accidental loss. 
Mrs M has referred to the wording below, which she says expressly covers the situation of 
placing an instrument in a shop:
The policy is extended to include: loss, damage and theft to the insured item(s) whilst 
loaned to any person(s) provided they are using the insured item with your permission and 
are willing to adhere to these Terms and Conditions. It is your responsibility to make sure the 
person loaning the items is aware of the Terms and Conditions.
The flute itself doesnt appear to have been stolen, damaged or lost. From what Ive been 
told, the shop was given the authority to sell the item but didnt meet its obligation to pass on 
the proceeds of the sale to Mrs Ms son. This is a very unfortunate situation, but it seems to 
be a civil matter and I dont think its one that the policy is intended to cover. 
Mrs M says the shop committed the theft of the flute. But even if I was persuaded that what 
happened fell under theft, Mrs Ms loss still isnt covered by the policy.  I say this because 
Allianz has relied on the following exclusion:
 Theft by any person or persons to whom any insured item is entrusted or loaned.
Given that the shop was entrusted with the flute, I think it was fair for Allianz to decline Mrs 
Ms claim.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs M, who has lost out on a substantial sum of 
money. I appreciate she feels strongly that her loss should have been covered by the policy. 
But I think its clear from the policy documents that it isnt covered. So, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Allianz to decline the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman