DRN-3125998
The complaint
Mr H complains as a director of G (a limited company) that PrePay Technologies Limited 
(trading as Tide) didnt do more to protect his company when he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too 
much detail here. In early 2020, G was approached by a scammer pretending to be a 
manufacturer of PPE (personal protective equipment) which G was looking to obtain and 
supply in the UK. 
G entered into negotiations with the scammer for the equipment and a price was agreed. 
The scammer then provided an invoice which required part of the manufacturing costs up 
front. Mr H, on behalf of G, has said he made three payments to the scammer on 22 May 
2020 for £350, £5,500 and £40 from Gs Tide e-money account. Im aware additional 
payments were made to another of Gs accounts that were then paid onto the scammer, but 
these payments and that loss has been considered under a complaint about Gs other 
account. So I wont also be considering them here.
After paying the scammer Mr H expected the PPE to be shipped within a few days but this 
didnt happen. The scammer then asked for more money to complete the order at which 
point Mr H became suspicious. The scammer then blocked communication with him at which 
point he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr H raised the scam with Tide on 23 May 2020 but Tide didnt respond until 2 June 2020. 
Tide contacted the beneficiarys bank but it responded and said only £50 remained. Tide 
arranged for this £50 to be refunded to G and said it thought it shouldve responded to Gs 
claim sooner. It offered it £50 in recognition of the delay. But it didnt feel it was at fault for 
the payments being sent to scammers so was unable to help with this issue any further.
Mr H was unhappy with this and asked our investigator to look into things. They didnt uphold 
Gs complaint. They didnt feel Tide needed to do more in order to check where the 
payments were being sent and that £50 compensation for the delay was sufficient. Theyd 
also contacted the beneficiarys bank which had confirmed that had Tide contacted it on 23 
May 2020 when Mr H first reported the scam only £50 of Gs money wouldve remained in 
their account, so even had Tide acted immediately, G wouldve suffered the same loss.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said the compensation offered was insulting. He 
also said that Tide had done nothing to help him with his claim and hed had to do all the 
work. He felt Tide had a duty to provide sufficient warnings to help prevent scams, that it 
shouldve checked who he was sending money to and searched online to see if they were 
legitimate. He also felt that Tide had a responsibility to return Gs money to it whether or not 
it remained in the beneficiarys account.
As G didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has spoken about the obligations he feels Tide had to G and the payments made from 
Gs account. In particular hes talked about the warnings and additional checks he thinks 
Tide shouldve carried out on the payments he instructed. 
The relevant law and regulations  plus good industry practice and Tides own terms and 
conditions  suggest Tide has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of fraud 
and scams so far as reasonably possible. Tide might be negligent and liable for reasonably 
foreseeable losses if, in breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably alert a prudent authorised payment institution to potential fraud or financial crime 
by, or against its customer.
But, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, alongside Tides own terms and conditions, 
also indicate that Tide should execute and authorise payment instructions without undue 
delay. And as a starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is 
on the payer, even where it mightve been made as part of a scam.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mr H, who had authority to make payments on behalf of 
G, authorised the payments. So Ive taken the above obligations into account when deciding 
if Tide acted fairly and reasonably when it followed his instructions. And having done so, I 
dont think Tide reasonably ought to have recognised anything unusual in the payments Mr 
H is asking it to refund. 
Having reviewed the transactions on Gs Tide account in the year leading up to the 
payments to the scammer, its clear it frequently makes high value transactions to various 
different clients in the course of running its business. So Im satisfied the payments Mr H 
made to the scammer wouldve appeared in line with any other payments it was making 
around the same time. I dont think Tide reasonably ought to have intervened or carried out 
any further checks when Mr H made the payments he did.
Mr H has suggested Tide shouldve carried out research or additional checks into the person 
G was paying. Hes also said it shouldve carried out online searches and read the bad 
reviews of the company hed understood G to be dealing with. But I dont agree. Tide isnt 
responsible for researching every transaction thats made from its accounts. And G is an 
experienced limited company, so its reasonable for Tide to operate Gs business account on 
the basis that G has carried out sufficient checks to satisfy itself payments are legitimate 
before it makes them.
Its also not clear to me what information G, which again, is an experienced company, 
thought Tide would have access to that G was not able to check or research for itself before 
it sent money to the scammer. As Ive said, Tide is not responsible for carrying out these 
kind of checks for it. If G itself was not able to detect anything unusual, I dont think theres 
anything Tide reasonably couldve uncovered either.
When G reported the scam I think Tide ought to have made a reasonable attempt to try and 
recall the money it had lost, but I think it did that here and unfortunately only £50 of Gs 
money remained. And, the beneficiarys bank has confirmed to our service directly that even 
had Tide contacted it the day G reported the scam, this would still have been the case. So, 
although Tide has accepted it wouldve like to have acted sooner, this delay did not cause 
any loss in this case. Its my understanding Tide recalled this £50 from the beneficiary bank 
and it has been returned to G which is what I wouldve expected.Mr H has explained this situation has caused him significant distress and inconvenience. 
And whilst I dont doubt this, I would explain the eligible complainant in this case isnt Mr H, 
but G, which is a limited company and a separate entity to Mr H who I understand runs it 
along with his brother. As a limited company cant experience distress Ive only considered 
the inconvenience to G in this case. 
I do acknowledge there wouldve been some inconvenience in reporting G had been the 
victim of a scam and chasing this with Tide. But Im mindful that much of this inconvenience 
has been caused by the scam itself which is not Tides fault. And although Mr H has said he 
had to do all the work and Tide didnt help him, for the reasons given, it did what I wouldve 
expected in this case. 
Unfortunately, there will always be a degree of inconvenience when someone is the victim of 
a scam. And during the pandemic there were unavoidable delays with many businesses. 
And, as G is a limited company, I think its reasonable to expect that it will have to carry out 
some administrative work throughout the course of running its business, including dealing 
with its accounts. I can see Tide has acknowledged the delay in responding to G when it 
reported the scam and has paid it £50 in compensation for this. As this is more than I 
wouldve aware in this case I havent asked Tide to do more.
As Tide didnt miss any opportunity to prevent G from losing its money, I havent found it 
liable for Gs loss and make no award in this case.
My final decision
I make no further award in this case beyond the £100 already paid by PrePay Technologies 
Limited trading as Tide.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman