DRN-4235511
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about Aviva Insurance Limited and the decision to decline their 
insurance claim for flood damage.
Mr B has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken or comments made by either Mr B or Mrs 
B as Mr B throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr B held a home insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. Unfortunately, on 20 October 
2021, there was significantly heavy rainfall in their area. And this rainfall led to significant 
ground water in the garden, which also housed a culvert that linked to neighbouring 
properties. Around the same time, Mr B noticed cracking to his ground floor tiles, and 
moisture in his ground floor carpets. And he felt this damage had been caused by water 
ingress linked directly to the ground water caused by the significant rainfall. So, he contacted 
Aviva to make a claim on his insurance policy to repair this damage, on the basis it had been 
caused by a flood.
Aviva instructed an independent surveyor, who Ill refer to as D to inspect the damage at 
Mr Bs home in November 2021. D compiled a report and after reviewing its contents, Aviva 
took the decision to decline the claim. Aviva didnt think a flood had caused the damage and 
instead, it felt the damage had been caused by saturation penetrating from the ground 
upwards. And Aviva thought this saturation had been caused due to the location of the 
airbricks, which they felt failed to meet NHBC regulations. So, they didnt think the claim was 
one that fell within the policy terms and conditions.
Mr B didnt agree with this. And he advised Aviva he intended to obtain his own independent 
report to dispute this decision. Aviva acknowledged this and agreed to review any report Mr 
B provided. But while this report was being compiled, Aviva investigated Mr Bs concerns 
about their initial claim decision as a complaint. And Aviva issued a final response, 
expressing their belief that their decision to decline the claim was a fair one. Mr B remained 
unhappy with this, so he referred the complaint to us, in line with the signposting information 
Aviva included.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They considered the report Mr B 
provided from an independent contractor he commissioned, who Ill refer to as P. And they 
noted Ps findings that, as the floor had dried significantly between Ds initial report and their 
attendance in February 2022, P felt it was most likely the moisture had been caused by a 
flash flood in October 2021. So, our investigator didnt think Aviva had declined the claim 
fairly and they recommended that Aviva reassess the claim against the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, on the basis there was an insured event and that the airbricks 
werent the cause of the water ingress.
Mr B accepted this recommendation. But Aviva didnt. And they provided further comments 
and evidence centring around the installation of the airbricks, and the new patio that was laid 
in 2019. Our investigator obtained further information from both Aviva and Mr B about these 
issues, which included and was not limited to confirmation from the builder who installed Mr 
Bs new airbricks in November 2021, explaining they had been installed in the same position 
as those present at the time of the flood.
Our investigator considered all of the new information provided. And having done so, their 
view remained the same. They didnt think the work Mr B had done at the property between 
November 2021 and February 2022 changed the drainage so substantially that it invalidated 
the conclusions of P. And they werent satisfied that the position of the airbricks led to the 
flood damage present in Mr Bs home So, they reemphasised their recommendation that 
Aviva reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy, as well as covering 
the cost of the report P compiled.
Mr B accepted this recommendation. But Aviva didnt, making the same arguments as those 
they made to our investigators initial view. As Aviva didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to set out exactly what Ive considered. I note that, at the time that Aviva issued 
their final response to Mr Bs complaint supporting their decision to decline the claim, they 
werent in possession of Ps full report. But I note before Aviva issued their final response, 
they agreed to consider any report Mr B would commission and provide. And despite this, 
they continued to issue a final response when this hadnt been provided.
And I also note that they have since been provided with this report by our service, and their 
position remains that they believe their decision to decline the claim was a fair one. So, Im 
satisfied theyve been able to consider this, and provide any comments they deem 
necessary. Because of this, I have considered all the information and events that link directly 
to the claim decline, whether that be before, or after, the final response of the complaint, as I 
dont think I would be able to consider the decline fairly and completely without doing so.
When considering a claim decline, Id first expect a business to ensure there was an insured 
event in line with the policy terms and conditions. So, Ive done the same. In this situation, 
Mr B feels there was a flood that caused the damage to his home. Whereas Aviva didnt 
think this was the case as set out in the declinature letter, and subsequent complaint 
response.
Our services approach for considering whether a flood was present is to first consider the 
policy terms and conditions, to understand whether these terms define what the business 
believes to be a flood. In this situation, I cant see that the policy defines the term flood. So, 
where this is the case, our service then looks to decide whether we reasonably think there 
was a flood, based on the individual circumstances of the claim. And to be clear, we follow 
the approach that a flood doesnt definitively have to be sudden or violent event. Instead, we 
recognise that a flood can occur when water enters, or builds up, in a property slowly and 
steadily, and doesnt necessarily need to be caused by a natural event. The key factor we 
consider is whether water has built up, regardless of where the water has come from. And crucially, this water doesnt need to enter the property over the ground. It can enter from 
any direction, including underneath.
In this situation, Ive seen the weather reports from Mr Bs area at the time. And this shows 
that on 20 October 2021, in the days immediately preceding the first time he noticed the 
damage, there was 10mm per hour of rainfall. And our service would deem this to be 
significantly heavy. To support this, in the two weeks before this date, the highest rainfall per 
hour recorded was no more than 1.2mm. So, I think its clear that in Mr Bs area, there was a 
sudden event of significantly greater rainfall than usual.
And I think its reasonable to assume this wouldve created significantly more surface water, 
and the ground itself wouldve most likely struggled to absorb this. And Ive also considered 
this against the fact Mr B had a culvert in his garden that linked to neighbouring properties, 
and the fact his local area has a flood action group, which suggests large amounts of rainfall 
over a short period of time was more likely to impact his property.
Ive also then considered the report compiled by P. And this shows that between October 
2021 and their visit in February 2022, a forced drying operation had been in effect at Mr Bs 
property. And they noted that this operation had been effective in significantly lowering the 
moisture readings in the concrete and screed of Mr Bs living room and study. So, P 
explained that this supported their belief that a flash flood had taken place in October 2021 
as, if the water ingress was happening gradually due to a defect, then due to the time of 
year, they wouldnt have expected the drying operation to have worked. And I think this is a 
reasonable conclusion to make.
I want to reassure Aviva I have also considered Ds report, that they relied on when initially 
declining the claim. But I dont think the findings of this report state explicitly that a flood 
didnt occur. Instead, it makes clear the water saturation was penetrating upwards from 
below the concrete floor. And while I do understand how Aviva may have interpreted this 
information, based on their own perception of what they believe a flood to be, as Ive already 
explained above, I dont think water has to be entering the property above ground to be 
deemed a flood in all circumstances.
So, based on all of the above, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, the heavy 
rainfall on 20 October 2021 most likely resulted in a flash flood which led to water ingress 
into Mr Bs property. And, that this ingress caused the damage Mr B is claiming for to be 
repaired. So, I am satisfied there was an insurable event for Mr B to make a claim for on this 
occasion.
But I recognise Aviva have explained that, even if a flood was present, they feel the 
positioning of Mr Bs airbricks in relation to his garden patio made it more likely for water 
ingress to occur. And so, they felt any claim would be excluded on this basis, due to the 
damage resulting from unsuitable materials, design or poor workmanship which Ive seen is 
a general exclusion within the terms of the policy. So, Ive thought about whether I think 
Aviva are fair to apply this exclusion, in this individual circumstance. And I dont think they 
are.
Ive considered all the photographic evidence supplied by both parties, that show the 
positioning of the airbricks. And I want to make it clear I can understand why, on these 
images alone, Aviva may have questioned their positioning.
And to ensure our service gave this enough thought, weve returned to Mr B to understand 
what work was undertaken after the flood, to prevent future occurrences of similar nature 
occurring. Mr B has confirmed the culvert walls were heightened, additional drainage added 
around the property and new smart air bricks were installed.But crucially, Ive seen an email from the builder who installed these new air bricks. And in 
this, they have confirmed the airbricks were installed in the same position as the original 
airbricks in situ at the time of the flood. And Im persuaded from their reasoning for this that 
this is accurate recollection of the work they undertook, and why. 
As Ive referred to earlier, Mr Bs flooring dried out between the time of the flood, and Ps 
second visit in February 2022. And this drying out occurred, with airbricks, albeit newer 
ones, situated in the same positions. Had this positioning of the airbricks been defective, or 
evidence of poor workmanship, I wouldve expected water ingress to have continued 
considering the time of year and the likely rainfall through that period.
I think its also worth noting that Ive seen the invoice which details the work carried out when 
a new patio was installed at the property in 2019. And I think this is relevant as B have made 
clear they felt the patio was installed too close, and too high, to the air bricks. Mr B has 
confirmed this patio was installed to replace the existing patio installed when the property 
was built. And so, Mr B feels that the new patio met the same NHBC requirements that the 
original patio wouldve needed to meet at the time the property was built.
The invoice explains that all of the digging out, and replacing, of the patio was subject to 
ensuring it was re-laid at the correct levels. So, Im satisfied this was the intention of the 
work carried out. And I think it most likely was carried out to this requirement, as I note there 
were no instances of water ingress, and water damage, to Mr Bs flooring in the two years 
between the patio being laid, and the flood on in October 2021. Had the patio been laid in a 
way that led to water being able to enter Mr Bs home through the airbricks, I wouldve 
expected damage to have been present before October 2021, considering the length of time 
between the two and the rainfall that wouldve been present over that time. And Ive no 
evidence to show that it was.
So, while I do recognise that some work was carried out at Mr Bs property between October 
2021 and February 2022 which will most likely have improved the drainage around his 
home, I dont think this work was so fundamental that it invalidates the report compiled by P. 
Crucially, I think the airbricks were replaced in the same position as they were at the time of 
the flood. And Im satisfied that the concrete and screed dried during the time between the 
flood, and Ps attendance in February 2022. Had the airbricks been installed in a position 
that was unsuitable, I wouldve expected water ingress to continue and so, the saturation of 
the floors to remain, during this time.
Because of this, I dont think I can say Aviva have reasonably applied the exclusion I 
referred to above relating to damage caused by unsuitable materials, design, or poor 
workmanship. And the onus on any insurer relying on an exclusion to prove the exclusion 
applies to the circumstances of the claim. So, I do think Aviva have acted unfairly when 
declining the claim and because of this, Ive then turned to what I think they should do to put 
things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mr B and Mrs B back in the position they 
wouldve been in, had Aviva acted fairly in the first place.
In this situation, had Aviva acted fairly, I think they wouldve assessed the claim on the basis 
that there was an insurable event, in this case a flood, present. And I dont think they 
wouldve applied the exclusion relating to damage caused by unsuitable materials, design or 
poor workmanship when doing so. 
So, I think Aviva should reassess the claim, and associated costs, on this basis. And I think they should cover the costs incurred by Mr B obtaining the report from P, as I think this 
report successfully disputed the original conclusion Aviva reached. And, had Aviva acted 
fairly, I think its unlikely Mr B wouldve needed to incur this cost in the first place.
I also want to make it clear that following Avivas reassessment, should Mr B and Mrs B 
remain unhappy with Avivas outcome or anything else that derives from this reassessment, 
they would be able to return to our service once they had followed the usual complaint 
process.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited and I direct Aviva to take the following action:
Re-assess the claim and associated costs in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, on the basis that there was an insurable event and without 
applying the exclusion discussed above; and
Cover the costs incurred by Mr B and Mrs B for Ps report.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman