DRN-2954606
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly declined a 
claim shes made on her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D has a building insurance policy branded with the name of a high street financial 
institution. The policy is underwritten by RSA and, as its ultimately responsible for this 
complaint, Ive referred to it throughout. 
The background of this complaint is well known to the parties so I have only provided a 
summary here.
Mrs D noticed water coming up through the floor in a below ground-level bedroom. 
The guttering and downpipes at Mrs Ds property run into a chamber that houses 
sump pumps which pump the water away from the property.
The chamber is outside of the property, next to the bedroom.
She checked on the chamber and found it was full of water. 
An engineer inspected the pump and found it had failed.  
This meant water had been allowed to accumulate in the chamber rather than being 
pumped safely away.
Mrs D got in contact with RSA to make a claim and it appointed a loss adjuster to 
deal with it.
The loss adjuster appointed a specialist to undertake a salt test to establish the type 
of water that entered the home.
This test showed the cause of the damage was gradual seepage of rainwater into the 
property.
RSA said this wasnt covered by the policy so it declined the claim. Mrs D 
complained.
RSA maintained its decision and the claim remained declined.
Our investigator didnt think the claim was covered under either the buildings or 
accidental damage cover and was satisfied RSA had acted fairly in declining the 
claim. 
Mrs D asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like many insurance policies, Mrs Ds policy doesnt cover every risk that might impact her 
house. The terms of the policy explain what is, and isnt, covered and these terms form the 
basis of what the parties can expect from the policy. There may be times when a policy 
holder believes something should be covered under their policy but it simply isnt. It wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to tell an insurer to pay a claim where theres no cover for it 
under the policy.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to demonstrate 
the claim is one covered by the policy. If the insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline 
a claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion more than likely applies.
When assessing this complaint, I will consider all the evidence and give weight to any 
professional opinions provided by the parties as to the cause of the damage while also 
keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
The cause of the damage
RSA instructed a specialist to undertake salt testing and to offer a professional opinion about 
the source of the water that had entered the property and caused damage. The test showed 
there were no nitrates or chlorides detected, indicting that the water causing the damage 
was rainwater seeping into the property. Given the circumstances described above, I can 
see how seepage  which by its nature happens gradually - could have occurred following 
the failure of the pump, allowing water to enter the property.
Mrs D doesnt agree the damage was caused by seepage and instead believes it was 
caused by a sudden escape of water following the failure of the pump at a time when she 
says there was heavy rain. While I acknowledge her opinion here, I havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me its a more likely cause than that identified by RSAs specialist, 
whos professional opinion I find to be more persuasive.
Overall, Im satisfied it was reasonable of RSA to rely on the opinion of its specialist in 
concluding seepage of rainwater as the likely cause of the damage.
Ive then gone on to consider whether this is a risk covered by the policy.
Is seepage covered by the policy?
Within the policy terms, theres a section which defines risks which arent insured under the 
policy:
Any loss, damage, liability, fading, corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, 
mould, condensation or deterioration or anything which happens gradually over a 
period of time
Because seepage happens gradually over a period of time, I think RSA acted fairly when it 
relied on this exclusion to decline the claim.
For the sake of thoroughness, Ive gone on to look at the accidental damage section to see if 
there might be cover here. This section provides cover, in some circumstances, for damage 
that happens suddenly, unexpectedly and hasnt been caused on purpose. But there is an 
exclusion detailed in the terms which shows whats not covered and this includes:
Accidental damage caused by the gradual seepage of water into your home
Given the cause of the damage, Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to rely on this exclusion and 
say theres no cover under this part of the policy.
Summary
I realise Mrs D will be disappointed but, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied RSA has 
fairly declined the claim and I wont be asking it to do anymore.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman