DRN-3807939
The complaint
Ms B  on behalf of her late mother (Mrs F)  is complaining about the amount Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) charged Mrs F each year for her buildings and contents 
insurance policies.
What happened
Mrs F had buildings and contents insurance policies with Lloyds for a number of years, with 
the policies automatically renewing each year. Ms B complained about the amount charged 
as she thinks it was unreasonable and she believes Lloyds has taken advantage of her 
mothers loyalty. She said an online search showed that she could have got a cheaper 
premium.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint as it was satisfied it had correctly calculated and charged 
the right premium each year. Ms B didnt agree and referred her complaint to this service. 
Since then, Lloyds has reviewed what it charged her and thinks it may have overcharged on 
two years. And it offered to refund a total of £102.72, plus 8% interest and pay a further £100 
in compensation.
Our investigator thought this was a fair offer as she was satisfied Lloyds had largely treated 
Mrs F as it would have any other customer in the same position. But she thought Lloyds 
compensation offer put things right for the time it may not have done. Ms B didnt agree and 
maintained that she thinks Lloyds had taken advantage of a vulnerable customers loyalty.
As Ms B didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Lloyds compensation offer is fair and Ill now explain why.
I should first state that this service isnt the regulator. So its not our role to direct Lloyds 
generally about how it conducts its business or sets its premiums. But I can look at whether 
it has treated Mrs F fairly.  
When a customer has been with the same insurer for a number of years and the policy has 
renewed year on year with little engagement on the price, we want to be sure the price 
increases have been based on the view of the risk changing. If the price increased simply 
because Mrs F werent engaging, we wouldnt think this is fair.
Lloyds has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to explain how it 
calculated the premiums it charged since 2015. Im afraid I cant share that information with 
Ms B, but Ive considered it carefully. Having done so, Im satisfied Lloyds largely charged a 
premium in line with what it would have charged other customers in a similar position  i.e. 
with similar risk profiles, with the exception of the renewals in 2016 and 2017. But Im 
satisfied that the refund Lloyds has offered is in line with the overcharge.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into account a large number of factors. At the 
renewal of each insurance policy, Lloyds carries out a new risk assessment. And its not 
unusual for a premium to increase over time. As I said above, its not down to me to tell 
Lloyds what factors it should take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go about its 
assessment. Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the 
extent of that risk. Ultimately, the annual premium Lloyds charges is essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement and isnt something with which we would usually think its fair to 
interfere with. 
I can fully appreciate why Ms B was unhappy to find a policy where the annual premium was 
significantly less than what Lloyds were charging. As I said, different insurers will view and 
price risk differently but a difference in the price offered doesnt mean Lloyds has treated 
Mrs F unfairly with how it priced her policies. As I said above, Lloyds has shown the 
premiums its charged over time is largely in line with what it would have charged other 
customers with a similar risk profile. And, where the premium was over charged, Im satisfied 
the refund is a fair reflection of what it should have charged.
I can understand Ms Bs belief that Lloyds has treated her unfairly, because the annual 
premium did largely increase year on year. But, Im satisfied Lloyds compensation offer is 
fair.
My final decision
For the reasons I set out, its my final decision that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds 
offer to refund a total of £102.72, plus 8% interest and pay a further £100 in compensation is 
fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman