The complaint
Miss M has complained about Assurant General Insurance Limited. She isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under her mobile phone insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss M made a claim under her tech insurance policy with Assurant in February 2020. But 
when it considered the circumstances surrounding the claim it turned it down. As Miss M had 
left the phone unattended in her jacket pocket at a table while she went dancing on a night 
out it didnt meet the claim. This was because she had left the phone unattended and so 
wasnt covered under her policy. As Miss M wasnt happy about this she complained to 
Assurant and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. He listened to the 
call when Miss M first told them about the loss and he didnt think that Assurant acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim. 
As Miss M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss M, who clearly has just been 
the victim of crime here, but Ill explain why.
I can understand how frustrating Miss M has found all of this. She feels that she has paid for 
an insurance policy and feels it should simply pay out now she has a claim. But insurance 
policies dont cover every eventuality and in this instance Assurant has said in its policy 
documentation it may not cover claims when you knowingly leave your device where others 
can see it but you cannot, and your device is then lost or stolen. And it goes onto say that 
Miss M should take care of her device or it may decline the claim when leaving your device 
somewhere you cant see it but others can.
Ive listened to Miss Ms call when she first reports her phone lost or stolen and she clearly 
describes leaving her phone unattended in her jacket at a table for between 20 and 30 
minutes. It is clear the jacket isnt near her when she went dancing and that the table may 
have been used by other people. Miss M certainly wasnt in close proximity to the phone and 
if she was she may well have acted as a deterrent to any potential thief. Im sure a thief 
wouldnt have seen the phone or gone through her pockets if she was in close proximity and 
she would certainly have been a deterrent.
DRN-1686198I know Miss M has suggested since that time that the phone couldve been lost at some 
other point during the night. But I think, on balance the phone was most likely taken while it 
was left in the jacket on the table and there isnt anything to suggest otherwise.
As such, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Miss M finds herself, I dont think 
Assurant has acted unreasonably in declining the claim. It isnt unreasonable for insurers not 
to want to cover these kinds of risks and most mobile phone policies wouldnt cover theft in 
these circumstances. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman