DRN-2541060
The complaint
Mr D and Miss A are complaining that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia 
(Britannia) should have given them better advice when they changed the date on which they 
made their monthly mortgage repayments.
What happened
Mr D and Miss A have had a mortgage with Britannia since 2004. Their first mortgage was 
on an interest only basis, and the initial repayment date was in the middle of the month  but 
Mr D and Miss A asked to change this to the 25th shortly after the mortgage started.
Over the years theyve changed their mortgage to borrow more or take advantage of fixed 
rates periods etc. On more than one occasion they agreed to make their regular payments 
on the 25th. That appears to coincide with the date Mr D gets paid.
At a recent mortgage review the adviser pointed out that by paying on the 1st of a month    
Mr D and Miss A could save some interest. Mr D and Miss A think they should have been 
told this all along and think Britannia should return to them any interest theyve unknowingly 
paid over the years.
Britannia says it wasnt required to advise Mr D and Miss A about the possible effect on 
interest when they asked about changing their monthly repayment date, or when altering 
their mortgage product, as payment dates are an administrative task. So it doesnt think its 
done anything wrong.
Our investigator agreed with Britannia, so didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
pointed to the fact that Mr D and Miss A had asked to change the payment date over the 
years, so this must have been what they wanted.
Mr D and Miss A dont agree  they think this service should report Britannia to the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) so that it can force businesses to point out the potential additional 
costs of changing a payment date.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it might have been quite a shock for Mr D and Miss A to discover they may 
have been charged more in interest on their mortgage simply because they changed their 
payment date. Even so, Im not going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
When a payment is made, the portion of the payment due to be deducted from the capital 
outstanding is allocated straight away. So the capital  which is what the interest is based 
upon  would be slightly less going forwards. And so the interest, which is calculated daily, 
would also be less. This isnt the same for an interest only mortgage  because no capital 
reductions are made. Mr D and Miss A had one of these mortgages for many years. 
Britannia told Mr D and Miss A their potential interest saving if they paid their mortgage on 
the 1st of a month instead of the 25th was £1.05 for the 25 days. Thats based on their current 
borrowing, which is now all on a repayment basis. As I said above, for many years either all 
or a substantial part of Mr D and Miss As borrowing was on an interest only basis, and the 
interest on this type of mortgage isnt calculated the same way  so the comparable savings 
arent the same. 
Mr D thought he and Miss A had overpaid by £1.05 a day, but I believe that to be because 
he understandably mis-read the letter from Britannia. That letter says he and Miss A have 
paid £1.05 extra in daily interest (not per day) because they paid an instalment on the 26 
July rather than the 1st. Mr D says he thinks theyve overpaid by about £5,000 over the 
years. We checked this with Britannia and explained to Mr D and Miss A that any 
overpayment would be closer to £15 a year, which would equate to about £275 if all the 
mortgages had been on a repayment basis (which they werent).
Im not persuaded Britannia did anything wrong when it amended Mr D and Miss As 
payment date as they requested. I say that because I dont know whether the member of 
staff explained the impact of payment dates on interest to Mr D and Miss A each time they 
changed their mortgage. Mr D and Miss A say not. But I do agree that the choice of payment 
date is one they made  and that theres nothing in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Mortgage Conduct of Business handbook that says Britannia should advise customers they 
can save money by paying earlier than the monthly due date. 
If I thought Britannia had done something wrong (and Im not saying it did), Id then check to 
see if this had an impact on Mr D and Miss A. They suggest that if theyd been told about 
extra interest then theyd have paid earlier each month. But I can see from Britannias 
internal records and copy letters that Mr D and Miss A asked for the date of repayment to be 
the 25th.  So I must conclude that this suited their financial situation, even if they no longer 
recall asking for the payment date to be changed. Setting a payment date that fits with pay 
dates etc can help avoid unwanted bank charges and help with budgeting, which could 
easily outweigh any potential interest savings. So its likely the date change did provide 
benefits for Mr D and Miss A. 
Taking everything into account, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman