DRN-4276982
The complaint
Mr W complains that Hastings Insurance Services incorrectly recorded the value of his 
vehicle despite him verbally confirming the amount over the phone. This resulted in his 
vehicle being underinsured 
What happened
Mr W set up a van insurance policy with Hastings over the phone on 4 April 2023, after he 
received a quote online. 
During this call Mr W told Hastings the value of his vehicle was £12999, even though the 
value of Cs vehicle was put down as £9540 online. Hastings didnt amend the valuation and 
then Mr W received his policy documents on 4 April he noted that the valuation was 
incorrect. The policy started on 11 April. 
Mr W contacted Hastings and told them the car valuation was incorrect. Hastings tried to 
explain that although the agent could have amended the value, if it was a total loss they 
would pay market value, but Mr W C decided to cancel his policy.
Hastings have apologised for their error and refunded Mr W the £20 set up fee which is 
normally non-refundable and only charged C for the days on cover from 11  15 April.
Mr W was unhappy with Hastings response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but thought that Hastings offer was 
fair.  
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Hastings have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
Hastings have confirmed that they made an error in not recording the value of the vehicle as 
£12999 as requested by Mr W. They did offer to correct this, but Mr W chose to cancel the 
policy instead and look elsewhere - which he is entitled to do. So Ive thought about what 
impact this had on Mr W.
While I appreciate this would have caused Mr W inconvenience in having to make an 
additional call to Hastings, he chose to cancel the policy rather than amend it and so I cant 
fairly say that any inconvenience in terms of looking for a new policy was Hastingss fault. So 
the only inconvenience I can see here is having to make the call on receipt of the policy to 
make the correction.  
Im satisfied that the under recording of the value of the car didnt cause any detriment to Mr 
W during the time he was on cover from 11  15 April. If an accident had occurred during 
that time, which had resulted in the car being a total loss, under the terms of the policy Mr W 
would have been entitled to the market value of his van, regardless of what value was on the 
policy application. This is because the policy terms say that in the event of a total loss, the 
market value would be paid. Market Value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your van in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the market value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your van and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
So the value given to the van on the policy document would not necessarily have had any 
bearing on the value paid in the event of a total loss. There is no guarantee that Mr W would 
have got £12999 for it even if the policy had that figure on it.   
I can see that Hastings agreed to refund the set-up fee of £20.00 and only charged Mr W for 
the period that he was on cover from 11 to 15 April  which was £3.48. 
On balance Im satisfied that Hastings have acted fairly in this case, and that the £20 refund 
of a non-refundable fee is sufficient recompense for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mw Ws complaint, and I will not therefore be 
asking Hastings Insurance Services Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman