DRN-3674079
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way HSBC Life (UK) Limited has handled his critical illness claim. 
He says it failed to properly backdate it, and charged him ongoing premiums whilst it 
processed the claim. He also says it hasnt been made clear that his sum assured could 
reduce, and he questions why his claim wasnt paid at the sum agreed from the outset.  
What happened
The policy Mr S held was a reviewable whole of life policy, and it began in March 1996 with a 
sum assured of £110,000. The policy failed periodic reviews, meaning changes were 
required to either increase the policy premiums or reduce the sum assured. In March 2006, 
the policys sum assured reduced to £91,677, and by September 2016, the sum assured 
dropped to £39,972. The policy contained critical illness benefit, alongside life cover. 
In January 2017, Mr S called HSBC to pursue a claim for critical illness benefit, under the 
policys definition of heart attack. In March 2017, HSBC paid Mr Ss claim at the policys 
current sum assured of £39,972. It also returned one monthly premium that had been 
overpaid, as HSBC had since received valid evidence to satisfy the claim.  
In April 2021, Mr S complained about the policy in terms of how it operated along with 
concerns about the time taken to pay the claim. HSBC disagreed, and said it had explained 
to Mr S at the time of the sale that he had taken out whole of life cover, and he had been 
sent continued information at the time of the policy reviews. If he had been unsure about the 
reviews, he was given a contact telephone number to speak with HSBC but he did not use it. 
It also questioned whether the complaint would fall outside of the six-year and three-year 
time limits which apply to complaints brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator did not think that HSBC had done anything wrong. Firstly, he noted that 
there was no question around the value of the claim, upon reviews Mr Ss policy had a set 
sum assured which did not decrease and the claim was paid correctly. Further, he felt the 
total amount of time that HSBC took to assess the claim was fair in the circumstances, 
noting it had needed to obtain a medical report to verify Mr Ss medical information in order 
to pay the claim. He did not think it had acted outside of the policy terms in any way.  
Mr S did not agree. He said he took the view that a contract has to be fair to both sides. And 
HSBC used its knowledge of contractual terms to exploit his position. He said he wanted the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked carefully at the comments from both parties in this complaint, I do not believe 
it should succeed. I realise that is frustrating for Mr S, but I will explain below why I have 
reached that view.  
As a preliminary point, HSBC said in its final response to Mr Ss complaint that it believed he 
may have pursued the complaint outside of specific time limits (six years from the event and 
three years from knowledge of the cause of complaint) which apply to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. However, on receipt of this complaint I asked our investigator to query 
that with HSBC and it confirmed it consented to the complaint proceeding without objection 
to the time limits. So, I havent considered that any further and I have gone on to review the 
substantive complaint.  
This complaint concerns the critical illness claim Mr S made and the value of that claim 
under his whole of life policy. Mr S hasnt complained about the sale of the policy itself  so I 
wont be looking at advice (if given) to take out the policy in 1996 here. 
What Mr S is unhappy about is that he did not understand how the reviews for the policy 
operated insofar as when he came to make a claim, his sum assured was less than the 
outset and he did not appreciate that. He otherwise feels unhappy because when he 
pursued a claim with another provider, the claim payment was backdated with interest.  
It may help Mr S if I explain that whole of life policies are designed to run for a policyholders 
entire life and pay a lump sum on the death (or in some policies such as Mr Ss, the critical 
illness). They differ from term assurance policies, where those run for a defined period  
such as for the length of a mortgage borrowing. Commonly, whole of life policies are 
reviewable during the term at defined periods - usually after the first ten years. The 
policyholder chooses a sum assured when they take out the policy and pays regular 
(usually, monthly) premiums to the policy provider, in this case HSBC. 
The premiums are invested in one or more investment funds. Deductions are then made to 
pay for the costs involved. This includes providing the life cover, critical illness cover and 
administering the policy. Any surplus money builds up in the investment pot, which may be 
utilised in later years as cover becomes more expensive. The policy may also have a 
surrender value. 
HSBC will therefore undertake reviews of the policy, as defined in the terms. For example, 
the first ten year review took place in January 2006. The purpose of the review is to test if 
the policy is able to continue providing the chosen level of life cover. It will look at factors 
such as the amount in the investment pot, current mortality rates, investment performance 
and HSBCs projections for future investment performance when deciding what the policy 
will cost for the defined period until the next policy review. 
If the policy isnt sustainable at its current premium, the business will usually offer the option 
of reducing the sum assured or increasing the premium  this is what HSBC did. And as Mr 
S did not opt to increase the monthly premiums, it reduced the sum assured to £91,677. In 
2016, the second reduction took place in the same way, to a sum assured of £39,792.
I can see from the file that Mr S did revisit his policy in both 2012 and 2016, as he wrote to 
ask HSBC for documentation at those times, and met with an adviser in 2016 where the 
policys current value was explained. I dont find that HSBC acted unfairly in operating the 
policy or by paying that sum assured to Mr S when he made his claim the following year.  
No two claim processes will be identical. In order to assess the validity of a claim, an insurer 
will need receipt of medical evidence to confirm the relevant policy definition has been met  
as critical illness events in policies such as Mr Ss are severity-based. Not all claims will 
meet the defined policy wording, and so appropriate medical evidence from treating 
professionals will need to be obtained and reviewed by an insurer. That is understandably 
stressful for policyholders alongside dealing with the impact of a particular event or diagnosis. It isnt meant as a discourtesy, but its a necessary measure to authorise claims.  
Insurers may continue to take premium payments whilst a claim is being investigated 
because not all claims will meet the requirements of a policyholders terms and conditions  
so some policies will continue after a declined claim. Ceasing payments could affect the 
cover being provided; contracts such as these can be lapsed for non-payment of premiums. 
I consider that the claim was processed within a reasonable time frame, confirmed as 34 
business days. This included HSBC having obtained a necessary hospital report to verify the 
extent of Mr Ss heart attack, in line with the severity set out in the policy wording.
I do not believe that any backdating of the claim to the date of notification (19 January 2007) 
was required. HSBC was liable to pay the claim as at the date it received satisfactory 
evidence of the critical illness policy definition being met  and it did so on 8 March 2017. At 
that time, it refunded one policy premium, because this was no longer necessary in the event 
of a valid claim. I also find this to be fair, and the correct approach.  
My final decision
Though I realise Mr S has been through a difficult time, my view is that HSBC has fairly 
processed the claim payment upon receipt of valid evidence to satisfy the relevant policy 
definition, and it did not cause unnecessary delays. Similarly, I have not seen any evidence 
that it has operated the whole of life policy unfairly, or contrary to the policy terms. 
So, I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman