DRN-2350533
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Gladstone Brooks didnt pursue his claim for mis-sold payment 
protection insurance and closed his claim.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr R signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing Gladstone Brookes to act 
on his behalf to pursue any mis-sold PPI claims he had with his lenders. Mr R said hed had 
PPI with one of his credit card providers Ill call M. Mr S said hed sent information to 
Gladstone Brookes that showed he had paid  a PPI premium and the account number that 
he had with M. But Gladstone Brookes hadnt progressed his claim before the PPI deadline 
at the end of August 2019. Mr R said the credit card had a substantial balance, and hed lost 
the opportunity to claim. He complained to Gladstone Brookes.
Gladstone Brookes said theyd specifically asked Mr R whether his account with M had 
been before or after 2009, as this affected which lender they could contact. Mr R said hed 
had the account after 2009. Gladstone Brookes submitted Mr Rs claim to this lender. But 
they said they couldnt locate an account. Mr R later found his account with M was taken 
out in 2003. Gladstone Brookes said this meant they needed to contact the other lender, and 
as it was now passed the deadline date they couldnt submit a claim for him and had closed 
his case. But they offered advice to Mr R as to how he might be able to pursue the claim 
himself. And confirmed that if he was successful they wouldnt charge their success fee.
Mr R wasnt happy with their response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Gladstone Brookes had acted on the instructions theyd been given by 
Mr R. And she didnt think theyd acted unfairly or unreasonably in closing his claim.
Mr R didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
 
I can understand Mr Rs frustration as he thought by using the services of Gladstone 
Brookes, he was using specialists for making PPI claims and he wouldnt have to pursue any 
PPI claim he might have himself. In reaching my decision I need to determine what the 
agreement was between Mr R and Gladstone Brookes. And whether Gladstone Brookes 
have acted fairly and reasonably in line with their terms and conditions.
From Gladstone Brookes records I can see Mr R completed at the beginning of August 2019  
an on line application for them to pursue PPI claims for him with his lenders. I can see Mr R 
gave details of several lenders, across a range of products, loans, mortgages and credit 
cards. In giving these details Mr R was only asked to give the name of his lender. But for M 
Gladstone Brookes asked for additional information.
It isnt unusual for banks or other lenders to take over responsibility for customer accounts 
from other financial service providers, this could be for a variety of reasons. For M account 
holders, who took responsibility was dependent on when the account was opened. Before 
2009, responsibility fell to H and after 2009 it fell to L. So, for Gladstone Brookes to know 
which lender to contact they needed to know when the account began, before or after 2009.
And in signing the LoA Mr R had said:
All details presented are correct to the best of my knowledge.
I can see from Gladstone Brookes records; Mr R said his account with M was after 2009. 
While I can understand why Mr R couldnt be certain given the passage of time. I cant hold 
Gladstone Brookes responsible for following the instruction he gave to them. And they 
submitted his claim to L, who responded to say they couldnt locate an account.
On checking the LoA, that Mr R had signed, it said:
I understand that if PPI is or may be present, they will proceed to make a formal complaint in 
relation to the mis-selling and/or Undisclosed Commission involved in the sale of my PPI
As L had told Gladstone Brookes they couldnt find an account, Gladstone Brookes couldnt 
submit a formal complaint about mis-sold PPI. But Ive looked to see whether there was 
anything Gladstone Brookes could have done after they became aware that the account was 
opened before 2009.
I can see that Gladstone Brookes sent Mr Rs details to all the lenders he gave on his 
application form before the August deadline date. And this included H but, theyd only 
looked for any PPI associated with a mortgage, credit card and loans that Mr R had taken 
out with them and hadnt looked for any accounts associated with M, as Gladstone Brookes 
hadnt submitted a complaint about M And they told Gladstone Brookes in January 2020 
that they couldnt find any PPI for Mr R.
When Gladstone Brookes were told the account with M was before 2009, it was now after 
the August deadline date, and too late for Gladstone Brookes to submit another complaint. I 
can understand Mr Rs frustration as he feels he has lost an opportunity to claim PPI. But 
Gladstone Brookes acted on the information he sent to them. 
So, Im satisfied Gladstone Brookes acted on the instruction theyd been given by Mr R, and 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in their actions with him. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman