DRN-3437650
The complaint
Mr H  complains that Manor Wealth Management Ltd gave him unsuitable advice regarding 
his personal pension.
What happened
In 2016 Mr H made some enquiries about a pension he thought he had, and the pension 
provider traced his pension and sent him some details about it. 
In 2018, he was advised by Manor Wealth to transfer the personal pension to a different 
pension provider (Royal London). Mr H says he wasnt seeking out advice but was contacted 
out of the blue by Manor Wealth. 
At the time, Mr H was 52 and divorced. He was a self-employed music teacher earning 
around £35,000 per year. The existing pension was his only retirement provision.
Manor Wealth has provided details of its records which note Mr H as having a cautious to 
moderate attitude to risk; he wanted to make contributions of around £50 per month gross, 
but had been told he couldnt do this with his existing pension plan; and he did not see that 
pension as being income because he always considered that he would be teaching (and 
therefore earning income from this) for the rest of his life.
Mr H accepted the advice and transferred £32,720.13 into a personal pension with Royal 
London in November 2018. 
Manor Wealths initial charge was 5% of the pension value (£1,633.70) with a 1% ongoing 
service charge. Royal London charged a 0.9% fee for the particular fund recommended.
Mr H says Manor Wealth contacted him again in 2020 to discuss transferring his pension 
again and this prompted him to review the sale. He was unhappy because he didnt think his 
pension growth would cover the initial advice fee, and he thought the costs of the previous 
transfer hadnt been explained properly. He complained to Manor Wealth but didnt receive a 
reply, so he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said:
she couldnt see that the benefits of Mr Hs existing pension had been explained to 
him;
the existing pension was more restrictive and Mr H wasnt able to draw down funds 
from that pension, but he wouldnt have been able to access funds for another three 
years (until he reached the age of 55) and there was no particular need to transfer at 
that point;
the adviser should have considered the possibility of Mr H moving his pension to 
different funds with the same provider, which Mr H would not have been charged for;
the new pension was more expensive and the only justification for moving was that 
the investment strategy recommended wasnt available in the existing plan, but that 
wasnt a valid reason given that a similar fund would likely have been available with 
the existing provider;
if Mr H had been advised to stay with the existing provider, potentially with a fund 
switch, or to wait and then move at age 55 into a drawdown facility, he would have 
followed that advice.
As she didnt think the advice was suitable, the investigator asked Manor Wealth to carry out 
a calculation comparing the performance of his pension with what would have happened if 
hed stayed with his existing provider and, if that showed he had suffered a loss as a result 
of transferring, to compensate him for that loss.
The investigator also asked Manor Wealth to pay Mr H £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice given to him.
Manor Wealth didnt agree with the recommendations and raised a number of objections. 
The investigator considered the various points raised and explained why they didnt lead her 
to change her view. So Manor Wealth has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
I wont set out in full all the points Manor Wealth has made, but the key points include:
Mr Hs existing pension was invested in With Profits funds. These didnt meet his 
attitude to risk, there were no fund alternatives so a switch wasnt possible, and he 
wasnt able to make further payments into the pension  something he wanted to do.
Mr H was looking for better growth, wanted to rebalance his investments, and wanted 
to have flexible access to drawdown funds.
For all these reasons, staying with the existing provider wouldnt have been suitable 
and the advice to move his pension was appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide whether the advice given to Mr H was suitable, Ive considered how Manor Wealth 
assessed his needs and whether the advice to transfer his pension was suitable on the basis 
of those needs. 
Manor Wealth has provided documents where it recorded Mr Hs circumstances, his attitude 
to risk and the suitability of the proposal. Mr H says he cant recall receiving those 
documents, but even if so, they show the basis on which Manor Wealth gave its advice.
The suitability report Manor Wealth prepared notes that what it was recommending was 
more expensive for Mr H than leaving his pension where it was. But it justifies the advice on 
the basis that the investment strategy it wanted to recommend wasnt available with Mr Hs 
existing pension. The adviser gives this as the reason why it didnt recommend that he stay 
in his current plan or simply switch funds within that plan. 
Manor Wealth also says Mr H wanted to start making regular contributions to his pension 
and he wasnt able to do that with his existing plan. I understand Mr Hs existing pension had 
been made paid up in 1995 and he wasnt able to start regular payments into that plan.
With-Profits funds are generally more restrictive in terms of how a consumer can access 
benefits  for example, Mr H wasnt able to access drawdown in that plan. However, at the 
time of the advice he was 52 years old. The earliest age he could have accessed the funds 
from his pension was at 55, which wasnt for another three years. He couldnt access his 
funds at that point in any event, so Im not sure why he needed to transfer at that point in 
time purely for that reason. Manor Wealth says the existing provider didnt offer alternatives that Mr H could have 
switched to. But it did offer a range of funds and has confirmed that Mr H could potentially 
have transferred to a different pension (referred to as a Retirement Account), which would 
have allowed him to make regular contributions and access income drawdown once he 
reached the age where he could do that. If Mr Hs fund no longer matched his attitude to risk 
or he wasnt able to contribute into it when he wanted to, Id expect the adviser to consider 
the possibility of moving to different funds at the same pension provider. The pension 
provider wouldnt generally charge for this and it would have avoided unnecessary costs. It 
doesnt appear this was considered.
Looking at Mr Hs objectives, he didnt have a particular need for this fund. It doesnt seem 
he had any particular objectives, beyond wanting to make payments into his pension and 
access some of the funds flexibly at the age of 55. Both of those objectives could potentially 
have been achieved with his existing provider, without incurring the same charges. As a 
result of moving his pension Mr H incurred a charge of 5% of the value of his pension, thus 
reducing the value of his pension.
Looking at all the circumstances, I dont consider the advice to move was suitable. And Im 
satisfied that if Mr H had been advised to stay with the existing provider, potentially with a 
fund switch, or to wait and then move at age 55 into a drawdown facility, he would have 
followed that advice. If theres a loss, he should be compensated for that.
When Mr H reviewed the advice given he was unhappy to find the growth in his new pension 
might not cover the fees hed incurred, and thought the costs hadnt been explained to him 
properly. And when he complained to Manor Wealth about this he didnt receive a reply. In 
the circumstances I agree that a payment of £300 would be fair to acknowledge the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have remained with his previous provider. However I cant 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been 
worth. Im satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account 
and given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Manor Wealth do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Manor Wealth must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Manor Wealth should add interest as set out below.
Manor Wealth should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Manor Wealth is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation.
Pay to Mr H £300 for distress caused by the loss.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Manor Wealth deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Manor Wealth should give 
Mr H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Royal 
London 
personal 
pensionStill exists 
and liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr H's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Manor Wealth should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Royal London personal pension should be deducted from the 
notional value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return 
in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Manor Wealth totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Manor Wealth will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr H's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr H would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Manor Wealth Management Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Manor Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman