DRN-3409188
The complaint
Miss M complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited didnt give her options to reduce the 
cost of her private medical insurance policy. She also complains that AXA wouldnt allow her 
to visit its offices.
What happened
Miss M has held her policy since 1986. 
In 2020, Miss M contacted AXA as she wanted to attend one of its offices to discuss her 
renewal premium. AXA said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this wouldnt be possible. 
Miss M complained about this, and AXA issued a final response on the matter on 26 March 
2020. 
In 2021, Miss M spoke to AXA about ways she could reduce her renewal premium for the 
following year. Different options were discussed with her, and Miss M made some changes 
to her cover as a result. Miss M later complained that AXA hadnt made her aware of these 
options previously. AXA issued a final response on the matter on 13 May 2021. 
Miss M brought a complaint to this service about both issues.
 
Our investigator concluded that Miss M had brought her complaint about visiting AXAs 
offices outside our time limits, and so didnt consider this aspect of the complaint.
Our investigator also thought that she could only consider Miss Ms concerns about the 
options at renewal from 2015, as any earlier renewals fell outside our time limits. After doing 
so, the investigator concluded that AXA had given Miss M sufficient information at her 
renewals to make her aware that she could make changes to her cover to reduce her 
premium. 
Miss M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules (the DISP rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook) set out the 
complaints we can consider. 
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination, or summary resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have been aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received.
In respect of Miss Ms complaint about visiting AXAs offices, AXA issued its final response 
on 26 March 2020. This gave Miss M six months in which to refer her complaint to this 
service if she remained unhappy. Miss M brought her complaint to this service in June 2021. 
As this fell outside the six-month timeframe, I agree with our investigator that this aspect of 
Miss Ms complaint falls outside our time limits. 
Our rules do allow me to waive the time limits in exceptional circumstances. However, Im 
not aware of any exceptional circumstances that prevented Miss M from contacting our 
service within the six-month timeframe. 
In respect of Miss Ms complaint about the options at renewal, I see that she contacted AXA 
about her renewal premium in 2015. Changes were made to her plan in order to reduce the 
premium. So I agree with our investigator that Miss M ought to have been aware that she 
had cause for complaint about previous renewals at that time. As Miss Ms complaint was 
brought to this service more than three years after this, I find that her concerns about 
renewals prior to 2015 fall outside our six and three year time limits. Again, Im not aware of 
any exceptional circumstances that prevented Miss M from bringing her complaint here 
within our time limits.
Ive therefore only considered the renewals that have taken place after 2015. 
I see that in 2016 and 2017, Miss Ms renewal letters set out some ways she could reduce 
her premium, and invited her to call AXA to talk through the options available. Then from 
2018 onwards, Miss Ms renewal letters explained she may be able to get the cover at a 
better price if she shopped around, but they also let her know that AXA had a range of other 
options that she may want to consider. Again, Miss M was invited to call AXA to discuss this. 
I note that in AXAs final response of 13 May 2021, AXA said it could have told Miss M about 
ways to reduce her renewal premium the previous year when shed called it to discuss 
visiting its offices. Ive therefore listened to the calls in 2020. Having done so, Miss M was 
given the option of discussing her renewal over the phone if she wished, but she didnt want 
to do so.
Im satisfied that AXA gave Miss M sufficient information at her renewals to make her aware 
that she could make changes to her cover in order to reduce her premium. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman