DRN-4317824
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the misinformation she received from Interactive Investor 
Services Limited (II). As a result, settlement of her trades was delayed, she received less 
sale proceeds than she thought she would receive and couldnt place the buy orders she 
wanted to.
What happened
Mrs M could take advantage of two trading services with II  manual trading and its 
commission free Regular Investment Service. Based on information received from II she 
carried out some trades but because of the delay in settlement, and the amount of sale 
proceeds received, this impacted on the money available and timing for her Regular 
Investment.
She contacted II on 14 December 2021 as she noticed that some of her Regular Investing 
trades hadnt gone through. II explained that not all of the funds in her account were cleared 
funds.
Mrs M wasnt happy about the information received prior to her carrying out the trades, the 
trading itself, the execution, the amount of proceeds and her inability to reinvest all of those 
proceeds via the Regular Investment Service.
Mrs M raised a complaint. In its response to Mrs M on 26 January 2022 II said the following;
It accepted that Mrs M had been given the incorrect cut off time for placing a trade in 
all funds as 11.15am. It offered its sincere apologies and upheld this element of the 
complaint. It said Mrs M should allow one hour before any funds cut off time as 
stated in the relevant Key Investor Information Document (KIID) to place a trade 
with II.
Mrs M had also been misinformed that she could trade with unsettled cash for her 
Regular Investment trades. It apologised for this and upheld this complaint point.
For online trading, the prices Mrs M would have seen prior to the trades were 
indicative prices  they werent necessarily the price Mrs Ms trades would execute 
at. As there was no error in handling Mrs Ms orders it couldnt uphold this element 
of the complaint.
To put the matter right it credited Mrs Ms account with four Trading Credits equal to 
the amount of £31.96 to cover the commission of placing the four unexecuted 
Regular Investment trades from December. It also funded Mrs Ms Trading Account 
with £50 for the time she had spent on the matter and the misinformation she had 
been given.
Remaining unhappy with the outcome to her complaint Mrs M referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint thought that it should be 
partially upheld. She said;
 She couldnt find that II was at fault about the indicative prices quoted. It is industry 
standard and it didnt contravene any regulatory requirements. It was also explained 
in IIs terms of business. The investigator wouldnt review all Mrs Ms trades  which 
she had requested  as this service would only look at complaint points where a 
customer was able to identify how they saw things went wrong.
With regard to cut-off times for trading, despite the fact that Mrs Ms account was an 
execution only account, II also offered a call and message service and the 
investigator felt that it wouldnt be fair to expect Mrs M to correct misinformation by 
reading the KIIDs. She was persuaded that Mrs M had planned her next steps 
because of the information given.
The investigator thought II was correct in upholding the complaint point about the 
misinformation Mrs M was given about being able to trade with unsettled funds for 
her Regular Investment trading.
But to put the matter right the investigator concluded that II needed to do more. It 
should back date the trades Mrs M made as if they had been received prior to the 
cut off time as Mrs M had been advised. It should also reconstruct Mrs Ms unsettled 
fund trades and be processed as she had requested. And she also thought Mrs M 
should receive an additional payment of £200 for the upset and inconvenience she 
experienced.
II didnt agree with the investigator, it said;
Customers are required to confirm they have read and understood the KIID at the 
time of placing an order. KIID information supersedes all other information. That   
Mrs Ms husband was given the incorrect cut off time information a month before the 
trades didnt take precedence over the information given in the KIID.
The same applied to the misinformation given about Regular Investment. This was a 
customer service issue as customers are provided with all the information at the 
point of initiating Regular Investment.
The investigator maintained that it wouldnt be fair to expect Mrs M to check information 
given to her. There was no reason for her to think the information given was inaccurate or 
needed to be relooked at.
As the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I was thinking of 
reaching a different conclusion than the investigator so issued a provisional decision to allow 
the parties to provide me with any comment or evidence that wanted me to consider before I 
reached my final decision. This is what I said;
In response to the investigator, Mrs M provided further information for me to consider 
which Ill address as part of this decision as necessary.
The information given about the timings of trade
On 30 November 2021 Mrs Ms husband called II to ask about the settlement of 
potential fund trades and the cut off time to place an order. He was told that fund 
trades settle in one to two working days and the cut off time to place an order was 
11.15am.
II upheld this element of Mrs Ms complaint but upon further review it told us this 
wasnt correct as it was Mrs Ms husband who was misadvised during that call and 
not Mrs M. It said Mrs M was required to gain information for herself to act upon and 
she had not asked II for this information nor read and understood the documents 
relevant to investing in a fund, or the further information available on its platform which she was required to do. As an online execution only broker all information 
needed by a customer to use its platform is available on its website.
While I accept that it wasnt Mrs M who made the call to II, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for her husband to share that information and for her to have relied 
upon it. That being said, II has already compensated Mrs M £31.96 for this error and 
the poor customer service that was provided by giving incorrect information.
A few weeks later after Mrs Ms husbands call with II, Mrs M carried out two sales 
placed on 13 December and executed on 13/14 December  the Baillie Gifford 
Managed Fund and HSBC Global Strategy Fund. These raised the balance on her 
account to £23,547.46 and she wanted the sale proceeds of those funds available for 
reinvestment via the Regular Investing service which was to take place on 
Wednesday 15 December.
The HSBC Global Strategy Fund settled on 15 December and Baillie Gifford 
Managed Fund on 17 December. The delays in settlement of the trades had an 
impact on Mrs Ms ability to reinvest the funds.
II initially acknowledged the information Mrs M was given  via her husband and 
which I have said it wasnt unreasonable for her to have relied upon  during the 
phone call about the cut off time for placing the unit trust orders was incorrect as was 
the settlement dates.
However, II also told us that Mrs M had called II in October 2021 to ask it to speed up 
settlement of a payment so as to make it available for Regular Investing. It said this 
suggests Mrs M was already aware that unsettled funds could not be used for 
Regular Investing prior to her husband being given the incorrect information. That 
being said, II has already apologised for its error and paid Mrs M £50 in 
acknowledgement of this. Im satisfied that amount is a fair reflection to compensate 
for the misinformation given.
Our investigator asked II what Mrs M would have seen on her account showing that 
funds werent settled so couldnt be used to trade. II provided a screenshot of what 
Mrs M would have seen. There is a column marked pending which I see shows 
unsettled funds. And its also provided a transaction history where Mrs M would have 
seen when the funds were due to settle.
However, while II initially accepted and acknowledged it made an error in the 
information it gave Mrs M via her husband and which I think it was right for it to do so, 
I have gone on to consider the impact of the delays in settlement.
The Monthly Regular Investing service
This is a commission free service offered by II where settled cash on a customers 
account is invested on a regular basis. Customers can set up monthly trades in 
advance for either the first or the third Wednesday of every month. When trading 
takes place, the orders are executed throughout the day at Market Best by its 
Trading Team. If a customer wishes to, they can manually place an order themselves 
outside of this service, but that trade would incur a commission charge.
Only cleared funds can be used for the Regular Investing service whereas for manual 
trading a customer can use non cleared cash  cash awaiting settlement from a sale. 
For the Regular Investing service, cleared cash is taken from the customers account 
at midnight on the trading day. Doing this prevents the customer from using that cleared cash for any manual trading during the day or duplicating trades. II is entitled 
to manage its own business and services as it chooses.
Under the Regular Investment Service section of IIs terms of service it says;
5.6 We will carry out your Regular Investment Instruction on the Purchase 
Date by carrying out a Purchase for an amount not more than the Purchase 
Consideration, provided that there are sufficient Cleared Funds in your 
Account and provided that the Purchase price (e.g. share price) of the 
Regular Investment does not exceed the amount of your Regular Investment 
Value. [my emphasis].
In Mrs Ms case she wanted to sell her investments and then to reinvest the sale 
proceeds. She says she was prevented from doing so via the Regular Investing 
service as not all of the cash from the sales was cleared cash and so wasnt 
available for reinvestment. Mrs M says that it was the misinformation given over the 
phone that caused this. Because of Mrs Ms husbands call, she was given the 
impression that the cash would be cleared by the time the Regular Investment was 
carried out on 15 December.
While I accept that Mrs Ms husband was misinformed when he spoke with II, I also 
have to acknowledge that Mrs Ms account was an execution only account which 
meant that the management of her account was solely her responsibility. And I dont 
think it unreasonable to conclude that by Mrs M being the holder of an execution only 
account to think that she should reasonably have been aware of how trading in funds 
such as the ones she held and was selling. The terms of service refer to this;
Our service is execution-only, which means we will not provide you with 
investment advice or assess suitability of any investments you make. All 
investment decisions are your own. You should not trade with us unless you 
are comfortable making your own investment decisions and you understand 
the nature of the products and services and the extent to which they expose 
you to financial risk.
I think the reference to financial risk isnt limited to the risk implicit in investing itself. 
I consider it includes all risks associated with investment and pertinent to this 
complaint, such as the practicalities of trading, being aware of cut off times for trading 
in funds etc. I also note under the Provision of Information section of the terms of 
service it says; 
7.1 Any news, prices, opinions and other information we may provide to you 
(Information) is provided solely to enable you to make your own investment 
decision and does not constitute a personal investment recommendation or 
personalised advice.
So while I have sympathy for the position Mrs M found herself in, overall and taking 
all of the above into account I dont find that II is responsible that the sale proceeds of 
the trades carried out on 13/14 December werent cleared funds for the Regular 
Investing service which took place on 15 December. 
With regard to placing manual orders IIs terms of service say;
3.6 By placing an order for the purchase of investments, you agree that you 
will have sufficient Cleared Funds in your Account on the date when you are 
required to make the payment to settle the trade. We may accept the order even if there are not sufficient Cleared Funds at the point of placing the trade. 
Cleared Funds must be available in order to effect and settle any trade.
This term makes clear that by a customer placing an order themselves  a manual 
trade  they can do so even if there are insufficient cleared funds at the time of the 
order. But the customer must have cleared funds available upon the date of 
settlement of the trade. Stock market settlement dates are usually T+2  the trade 
date plus two working days. But for other types of investments, including unit trust 
transactions which take place via the fund manager rather than the stock market, 
these settlement dates can vary but usually up to around four days which is what 
happened for Mrs Ms trades.
IIs service allowed Mrs M to place manual trades for any trades that couldnt take 
place during the December 15 Regular Investing service because of lack of cleared 
funds. So, I cant see she was prevented from carrying out those trades as a result of 
IIs actions, or inactions, as she could use the unsettled funds on her account to 
place the trades manually. She just needed to make sure those funds were cleared 
funds upon settlement date of the reinvestments.
So, its clear that Mrs M could have placed manual trades when those funds did 
become cleared funds in the following few days  on 16 and 17 December in line with 
IIs terms. And II has already credited Mrs Ms account with four Trading Credits 
equal to an amount of £31.96 to cover the commission of placing the unexecuted 
Regular Investment preferences from December.
The trades and sale proceeds
Mrs M has said shes not happy with the sales proceeds received from the funds 
compared to what she thought she would be receiving. She has said that irrespective 
of II not contravening industry standards or regulatory requirements, there is 
something innately wrong at II as she always lost out financially when selling a fund. 
Mrs M has said that if you choose to sell at a particular price, that is the price that 
should be received minus dealing costs.
However, this isnt correct, and I think Mrs M may be referring to equity/stock market 
investments which are quoted on the stock market and would offer live quotes 
throughout the day compared to the once a day valuation point for a unit trust.
As a background to trading in unit trusts, in general they are priced using forward 
pricing. This means that the customer placing an order will not know the exact price 
they will receive or pay. The only price that is known for sure is the price that was 
established at the most recent valuation point  usually the previous day. This is 
because the prices of unit trusts are generally valued at the end of market close 
globally, hence their prices will only be available sometime after the date a customer 
places a trade. And the price of the fund at the next valuation point may be higher or 
lower than the previous  and known  valuation point.
As unit trusts are collective investments, the valuation would depend upon on the net 
asset value of the underlying assets held within that unit trust. And depending on 
what those assets are, they will vary in value on a daily basis, but the value of the 
underlying assets and the fund overall will be fixed at the next valuation point of the 
fund. Fund managers dont have discretion over the valuation of a fund. Mrs M 
questions what level of discretion and influence are decided upon between II and the 
fund manager. But this isnt the case. II wont have any influence on the resulting 
price. This will be calculated by the fund manager according to regulatory standards and after taking account of the value of the underlying assets and allowable costs or 
charges etc.
For unit trusts, to be able to trade at the next valuation point the orders need to be 
placed with the fund manager by a certain time of day  usually sometime in the 
morning. Any trades prior to that cut off point will receive the price at the next 
valuation point. Any orders received after that cut off point would be rolled over and 
placed the next day. And businesses placing those trade orders  such as II  would 
usually have its own cut off point some time prior to the fund managers cut off point 
to allow it to collate the buy and sell orders received for that fund and then to place 
the actual trades with the fund manager.
II has provided us with a screenshot of what Mrs M would have seen when placing 
her trades online via a Preview Order. This shows the intended order a customer 
has placed with the current price, the settlement date, etc. I note the screen also 
says, the price quoted cannot be guaranteed until the order is confirmed. The price 
quoted for stock market investments is based on live trade prices but for funds like 
the ones Mrs M was trading in, it would show the previous days valuation price. That 
price would only become available once the fund manager has priced the fund again 
and that would be the price the customer would receive.
Mrs M has said that she didnt see the price guarantee warning when she sold her 
funds and questions whether it is a recent modification. On balance though I think it 
more likely this was showing on the Preview Order screen and even if Mrs M didnt 
notice it, I think it is something she should have been aware of as an execution only 
client.
II has given us a screenshot of what Mrs M would have seen at the point of placing 
her trades. It has told us that this information is available to customers at any time. I 
note that it says;
By continuing with your order, you confirm that you:
Have been provided with the information document and any appropriate 
supporting document;
Have had sufficient time to read and understand the documents(s)  we 
recommend you take time to do so; and
Wish to proceed with the transaction immediately.
And I see that the KIID Document and Prospectus Document are viewable and 
downloadable on the same screenshot. II has said the significance of those 
documents is a regulatory requirement and they are presented at the point of order 
for ease of reference.
II told us that the cut off times are one of the many valuable pieces of information 
contained in the documents and that Mrs M failed to read those documents, meaning 
she would have also been unaware of other key information, and is not something for 
which II should be accountable. It said  and I dont think unreasonably so  that it 
couldnt guarantee a fault free service, so Mrs M should have confirmed the 
information contained within the documents rather than relying upon the information 
her husband was given.
And even if that information wasnt available in the documents on the website, such 
information is very easily accessible from various sources and other websites including from the fund manager of the particular fund. Taking all of the above into 
account Im satisfied that it was Mrs Ms responsibility to make herself aware of the 
relevant cut off times.
With reference to Orders in IIs terms of service it corresponds with what I have said 
above about fund pricing.
It says;
3.10.5 Units in a collective investment schemes are normally traded on a 
forward price basis. This means a price calculated by reference to the 
valuation point which occurs after the unit trust managers agreement to sell 
or redeem the units in question;
This is a very common and an industry standardised method for pricing unit trusts 
and similar collective investments. And as mentioned above, settlement periods for 
different unit trusts can vary. Any difference from one valuation point to the next  
whether higher or lower  is as a result of the varying values of the underlying assets. 
So, I cant agree that II or the fund manager has done anything unusual or wrong 
when carrying out the trades. The trades proceeded as I would expect to see for 
such assets. And Mrs Ms account is an execution one. So, it is solely her 
responsibility to manage her account and understand how it works. And this would 
include the practicalities of trading in equities and funds alike.
However, I hope what I have said above about how funds trade has explained this 
difference in valuations to Mrs M. I am sorry that Mrs M didnt receive the amount she 
was expecting from the sales of the funds. But as I have explained above, the 
reduction in value of the units from one valuation point to the next is one of the risks 
and vagaries evident in trading in investments.
Mrs M has referred to II relying upon its terms of service and how it has used those. 
But II is able to rely on those terms of service and I dont find that it has been unfair 
or unreasonable in doing so. Both parties to the relationship agreed to those terms of 
service at the outset.
Overall, I provisionally dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I wont be asking II to do 
anything further. I think the amount it has so far paid to resolve the complaint is fair 
and reasonable under the individual circumstances of this complaint. I am of the 
opinion that the account was execution only and it was for Mrs M to acquaint herself 
with how that worked and in particular how fund trades are carried out. II carried out 
those trades as I would have expected it to.
II didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mrs M didnt agree with my conclusion and 
made the following points for my consideration;
The complaint was about poor advice and the reduced sale proceeds and the 
detrimental impact this had on Mrs M. It wasnt about poor investment choices and 
losses but IIs procedures and bad advice.
Mrs M had been misinformed over the phone and in writing about cut off times and 
cleared funds for Regular Investing. II should be accountable for any losses and not 
just an apology. 
For Mrs M to consult other sources of information wasnt practical.
Mrs M expected to receive accurate information and for II to now rely on its terms and conditions wasnt fair.
The amount refunded for the trades was spent anyway and the £50 for the time    
Mrs M had spent was insufficient for the misinformation and doesnt reflect the 
consequential losses. 
Accurate bespoke information should have been provided at the outset which could 
be trusted and relied upon. When Mrs M sought advice from II she was wholly 
dependent on this and had acted in good faith in making investment decisions. 
Even if the information had been given a month before the investment it should still 
stand. Mrs M couldnt keep phoning II to confirm things that had been addressed 
already.
There were financial consequences for poor service and advice relied upon. And this 
matter was also about IIs procedural issues about being able to use cleared funds 
and not something included in the KIID. And the cut off times given in the KIID were 
different from IIs cut of times and which were different for other funds. This 
information was not easily looked up and was confusing. Some KIID didnt give cut 
off times. 
Different sources can provide conflicting information so Mrs M questioned where an 
execution customer should turn to.
It may have been Mrs Ms husband who called II in October and it might have been 
to forewarn II that there were funds pending sales in anticipation for Regular 
Investing. They were advised that unsettled funds could be used in lieu of Regular 
Investing which was free and not manual investing. 
If there was uncertainty with information being given by II, it should be referred to 
someone senior. 
The consequences of poor advice needed to be considered on the basis of exposing 
Mrs M to financial risk and not being about Mrs Ms ability to manage her own 
account. Mrs M lost out because of the misinformation. 
While II would wait for cleared funds for manual trading, the same was stated for 
Regular Investing. 
The different settlement times  T + 2 or more, was misinformation that should have 
been advised. 
With reference to indicative pricing, this wasnt readily apparent on screen and the 
final amounts received were less than the initial original value.
Mrs M had been advised there were discussions between II and the fund manager 
about the final proceeds. This shouldnt happen unless the negotiations were to    
Mrs Ms benefit and she should be told and offered the choice to accept the final 
price. 
This didnt happen when Mrs M used the services of another investment platform. 
Mrs M always received less when trading with II.
Mrs M didnt recall seeing the statement the price quoted cannot be guaranteed until 
the order is confirmed and II amended its site regularly. If the fund devalued by an 
unacceptable amount, Mrs M should reserve the right to stop the sale.
The whole experience had been very stressful. II hid behind its terms and conditions 
despite the investigators findings. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I remain of the opinion that II doesnt need to do anything further. Ill explain 
why below where I have addressed the salient points of Mrs Ms complaint.  
The pricing of the investments
Mrs M has said she should be reserved the right to stop the sale if the fund had devalued by 
an unacceptable amount when compared to the price she thought she was going to get. But 
this isnt how investing in unit trusts (and similarly constructed types of collective 
investments) works. Ill explain  very broadly  how they do work. 
With reference to the pricing of unit trusts, the underlying funds are what is known as open 
ended. This means that the units of the funds themselves can be created or cancelled by 
the fund manager if necessary. The manager will collate all the buy and sell the orders for a 
given day  hence the cut off time for placing an order to trade  and if they broadly match 
there wont be any need to create or cancel units. But if say there is a high demand on that 
day, then more units will be created, and the cash received will be invested in investments 
within the fund itself. 
The unit trust fund manager has to consider the number of units that are available on a daily 
basis, and that will depend upon the amount of funds being invested or withdrawn. Because 
of that, it wouldnt be practical for a fund manager to create the buy/sell unit prices for that 
day, which would depend upon the net asset value of the underlying assets, and then refer 
back to the unit holders and potential investors, prior to the price being fixed for the day. The 
fund manager has to know, in advance  hence the cut off time  the number of units and 
the net asset value of the underlying investments in order for the prices for that day to be 
fixed. 
This is one of the disadvantages of investing into unit trusts (and similarly constructed funds) 
as the investor doesnt know for sure what price they will receive/pay as it is based on a 
forward pricing basis. It could be more or less than the previously days price. 
These differ from investment trusts  also collective investments  which are closed ended. 
Once the investment trust is created and the funds invested, the manager cannot create or 
cancel shares to meet demand. The shares are listed on the stock market and the value of 
the shares will rise and fall on the stock market like any other investment and can be traded 
in the same way. 
For unit trusts it isnt industry standard  nor would it be practical because of the way unit 
trusts are constructed  for current and potential investors to be referred back to prior to the 
prices being fixed on any given day. Those bid/offer prices are dependent upon the known 
value of the amount being invested and redemptions on that day and are based on the net 
asset value of the fund itself. II  or any other product provider  wouldnt have anything to 
do with the pricing of a fund. That would be for the fund manager to calculate and would be 
dependent upon the issues as Ive mentioned above. Id like to assure Mrs M this is industry 
standard. Because of this, I cant agree with Mrs M on this point, but I hope I have been able 
to  albeit broadly  explain why. 
I also havent been given evidence to suggest that Mrs M received reduced sale proceeds. 
Above I have explained how the pricing works and Ive seen nothing to show that Mrs M received reduced proceeds using IIs services than she would if she had used a different 
platform. 
The Regular Investment transactions 
Mrs M placed two trades on 13 and 14 December which settled by or on17 December. But I 
note that Mrs M placed 12 trades on 15 December  the date of the Regular Investment  
and which all settled on a T + 2 basis on 17 December using those unsettled funds. 
I sought additional information from II about how Mrs Ms Regular Investment was set up  
was it set up to use all settled cash or was it a monthly set amount to be invested as 
examples. II told us that Mrs M regularly updated her Regular Investment instructions on a 
monthly basis and based on how much cleared funds she had in her account in the days 
prior to the trade date. As an example, it told us that for the December 2021 trades there 
was £33.42 available, and Mrs M logged in and set the instruction to buy shares to utilise 
those funds. It told us Mrs M was very active and her activity was based on the funds 
available at the time on a monthly basis. 
So, Im satisfied that Mrs M didnt have any instruction for a fixed amount of investment or 
number of units/shares she wanted to purchase each month and which she potentially 
missed out on. It appears she was flexible in her approach and her instructions depended 
upon the amount of funds available in any given month.
II has refunded the trade commissions by way of four trading credits  £31.96  because  
Mrs M had to place manual trades using unsettled funds rather than utilise the free Regular 
Investment Service as the funds werent cleared in time from the two sales which would 
need to be the case when using that Service. If those funds had been settled on                  
15 December, the trades would have been carried out free of charge and placed via the 
Regular Investment Service. 
I asked II about the Regular Investment Service and whether Mrs M was able to manually 
carry out the same trades on 15 December using unsettled funds as those trades that would 
have taken place using the Regular Investment Service if those funds had been cleared.
II has confirmed that while Mrs M wasnt able to participate in the Regular Investment 
Service, due to her being misadvised on the clear funds aspect, she did place the 
same/similar trades  and could have deposited more to invest more on that date if she had 
wanted to  and was therefore in the same position she would have been in had the trades 
been placed via the Regular Investment Service rather than manually. It had already 
refunded the trading commissions paid on the manual trades and paid £50.00 for the stress 
and inconvenience that had been caused.  
So, because Mrs M was able to trade via the manual service  albeit with unsettled funds  
she was able to trade on the same date as she would have done if she was using the 
Regular Investment Service. And she could manually carry out the same transactions that 
she may have wanted to via the Regular Investment Service. So, I cant agree that Mrs M 
has lost out financially  she was in the position to carry out the same transactions she 
wanted to and which it looks like she did by placing the 12 trades. If she did make any 
different transactions than she originally intended to make, then that would have been      
Mrs Ms choice at the time. And Mrs M has been credited the four Trading Credits in 
recognition of the costs incurred using the manual service. Effectively she is in the same 
financial position she would otherwise have been in. 
In Mrs Ms response to my provisional decision she said that the consequences of the poor 
advice she received needs to be considered on the basis of exposing her to financial risk and her not being able to manage her own account. She had lost out because of that 
information. 
However, Ive previously commented about the incorrect trade times Mrs M had been given 
in my provisional decision. II had already accepted that it made an error with the 
misinformation that was given to Mrs M and it's already given her £50 in recognition of that 
error in any event. I dont find that an unreasonable sum to award in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint and because of what I've concluded above  that Mrs M was 
able to manually place the trades she intended to  then I cant agree that she has lost out 
financially or suffered any consequential losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about 
Interactive Investor Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman