DRN-3867813
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Ageas Insurance Limited and the length of time its taken to arrange 
repairs to her home following damage caused to her propertys flat roof after a storm. Mrs H 
also complains about the wait times she encountered when she called Ageas.
What happened
Mrs H held a home insurance policy, underwritten by Ageas. In February 2022, Mrs H 
discovered that the flat felt roof above her music room had been damaged during a storm. 
And this damage meant water was bypassing the gutter and running down and into the wall 
of her property. So, she contacted Ageas to make a claim on her policy.
Ageas accepted the claim, and they appointed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as V, to inspect 
the damage. But this hadnt been done by 30 March, and Mrs H called Ageas to chase them 
for an update. Mrs H was unhappy with the length of time she was on hold before she spoke 
to a handler, so she raised a complaint. Ageas responded to this complaint, apologising for 
the hold time Mrs H experienced explaining they were particular busy around that time due 
to the number of storms within the UK.
In April, V validated Mrs Hs claim, stating the damage had been caused due to a one-off 
event. So, Ageas appointed a third-party contractor, who Ill refer to as C, to manage the 
required repairs.
But Mrs H was unhappy with the length of time the claim remained ongoing without repairs 
being completed from this point. Mrs H was unhappy that C hadnt began repairs at the 
property or completed any temporary repairs to prevent the continued water ingress. She 
explained she was unable to move the contents of the music room, and that the damp 
caused by the water ingress had damaged her contents. In particular, Mrs H was unhappy 
with the damage caused to her piano. So, she raised a complaint.
Ageas responded to Mrs Hs complaint in September 2022 and upheld it. They accepted 
there had been avoidable delays during the claim process. So, they paid Mrs H £250 to 
recognise the upset and inconvenience this caused. They also explained they had appointed 
a loss adjustor, who Ill refer to as S, to manage the claim going forward in the hope of 
preventing further delays. 
Mrs H called Ageas a few days later to discuss this response, and the progress of her claim. 
Following this conversation, Ageas reviewed their complaint response. Ageas increased 
their compensation payment by £500, to £750 in total, to recognise the inconvenience and 
upset Mrs H had suffered, considering her vulnerabilities and personal circumstances. 
Internally, Ageas also ensured the claim remained open and authorised to continue. But Mrs 
H remained unhappy with the claims progression and so, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised that Ageas 
had already accepted there had been avoidable delays during the claim process. And that 
Mrs H had experienced long wait times when trying to speak to them. But our investigator 
thought the £750 Ageas had already paid was a fair one, that fairly compensated Mrs H for 
the upset and inconvenience she suffered. Our investigator also noted that Ageas had 
agreed to continue with the claim, despite S report that the damage was likely caused due 
to gradual wear and tear, which they werent required to do.
Mrs H didnt agree, providing several comments as to why. This included, and is not limited 
to, her belief this was the first time shed been told that S had suggested the claim shouldnt 
be accepted. And she didnt think the £750 already paid recognised the fact her property, or 
her piano, had still not been repaired by the Christmas period. As Mrs H didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise that, in response to our investigators 
initial view, Mrs H has described how the situation impacted her over the recent Christmas 
period, as well as her unhappiness that to this date, the repairs have yet to be completed.
But crucially, my decision is only able to consider the events up until Ageas issued their 
complaint response. Their final response letter to Mrs Hs complaint was issued on 16 
September 2022 but on 22 September, I can see Ageas reviewed this response and paid an 
additional compensatory amount to recognise the upset Mrs H was caused up until that 
point. As this payment was made to resolve the complaint Mrs H had raised, Im only able to 
consider the events up until this date. This is because before our service is able to consider 
a customers complaint, a business must be given the opportunity to respond to it within their 
internal complaint process within eight weeks of when the complaint was raised.
In this situation, Ive seen no evidence to show me Mrs H raised a separate complaint about 
the events that have occurred after 22 September 2022, that Ageas responded to before our 
service became involved. So, I think any events or issues that have occurred after 22 
September 2202 fall outside of our services jurisdiction. If Mrs H wants our service to 
consider complaints about issues after this date, she will need to raise these with Ageas first 
and then refer them to our service if she remains unhappy. 
And so it follows that any impact Mrs H has suffered that can be considered as part of this 
decision will be limited to the same time period, from the start of the claim to Ageas offer of 
increased payment on 22 September 2022.
In this situation, its not disputed that there have been avoidable delays caused by errors 
Ageas have made. Ageas have accepted this, and paid Mrs H £750. As the delays, and 
errors, arent in dispute, I dont intend to discuss them any further. Instead, Ive focused my 
decision on the £750 Ageas have paid to decide whether I think this total payment is a fair 
one. And I think it is.
I think the £750 fairly compensates Mrs H for the upset and inconvenience shes been 
caused by her loss of ability to utilise her music room, and the contents stored within it. I 
think it also addresses the damage to her piano, which is of sentimental value. And I think the payment is significant enough to recognise the vulnerabilities of Mrs H, the difficulty she 
faces mitigating her own losses due to her living alone, and her current health.
But I do also think it fairly takes into consideration the fact that Ageas have agreed to 
consider the costs required to repair Mrs Hs piano. And so, I think this lessens the impact of 
the damage to the piano at the time. I think it also reflects the fact that the affected room is 
part of an extension to her property and S report that confirms Mrs H property itself remains 
habitable. While I appreciate Mrs H may not be able to use the property as she wishes, I 
have to take into consideration the fact Mrs H is at no immediate risk while the repairs are 
awaited. 
I think it also fairly takes into consideration Ageas decision to dismiss S reports suggestion 
that the damage itself was likely caused due to gradual wear and tear of the felt roof. If 
Ageas had relied upon this determination, they may have decided to decline the claim in its 
entirety. But I can see that Ageas have actively dismissed this possibility to recognise their 
failures from the beginning of the claim through to 22 September 2022, as well as Mrs Hs 
own individual circumstances. And I think this shows Ageas attempting to act fairly towards 
Mrs H. 
I appreciate Mrs H has disputed the causation of the damage and feels as though the roof 
was in good condition before the damage. As Ageas arent intending to decline the claim, I 
dont think S findings in their report make a material difference and so, I dont intend to 
comment on this point any further.
Because of the above, while I do recognise the upset Mrs H has felt, and how this is likely to 
have been made worse by her ongoing health issues, I think the total payment of £750 
already made by Ageas is a fair one that falls in line with what I wouldve directed had it not 
already been made. And because of this, I dont think Ageas need to do anything more on 
this occasion.
Again, I recognise from the information I have available to me that it appears the claim 
remains ongoing and that a full repair hasnt yet been completed. I would expect Ageas to 
continue to progress the claim to ensure a repair is completed within a reasonable time 
frame. This decision focuses solely on the events up to 22 September 2022 and Mrs H 
would be able to refer a complaint to our service about any issues experienced after this 
date, should she wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman