DRN-1377858
The complaint
Mr M and Ms W complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) declined their travel insurance claim. My references to Mapfre 
include its agents.
What happened
While abroad Mr M, Ms W and their children were driving across a road causeway which is 
covered twice daily by the tide. They said they were following their sat-nav, they werent 
aware they were on a 4km causeway and there was a small sign warning of risks of flooding 
but no warning lights. About 1km along the causeway the water became deeper and they 
had to abandon the car. Their personal belongings were lost in the sea or water damaged 
and they made a claim.
Mapfre declined the claim, referring to the following policy term:
"You must take and cause to be taken all reasonable precautions to avoid injury, illness, 
disease, loss, theft or damage and take and cause to be taken all practicable steps to 
safeguard Your property from loss or damage and to recovery property lost or stolen".
Mapfre said Mr M and Ms W hadnt taken reasonable precautions to avoid the loss or 
damage to their property. It investigated the warning systems in place at the causeway and 
said the risks of crossing are well signposted on the approach and there are lighted signs 
which confirm if its safe to use the causeway. Also, the causeway is only passable at certain 
times of the day and its brief internet showed the road was well known for being dangerous 
and travellers were warned to check tide times before crossing. Mapfre said it would have 
been reasonable for Mr M and Ms W to not use the route without checking it was safe to 
cross.
Mr M and Ms W complain that: 
Mapfre took six months to tell them why it was declining the claim although it had all 
the details
the warning lights about crossing the causeway Mapfre referred to werent working at 
the time
Mapfre didnt answer their query about who it represented as the policy mentions 
several business names
Mapfre didnt answer their request to nominate solicitors to accept documents for 
legal proceedings. 
Our investigator said it was poor customer service for Mapfre to take so long to decline the 
claim, but it had fairly declined the claim. She explained that:
Mapfre was the insurer of the policy and responsible for claims
we can only consider the complaint about the regulated activity - the insurance claim. 
Mr M and Ms W would need to contact Mapfre about acceptance of service of any 
legal proceedings they took
as we don't usually look at complaints which are the subject of legal action we 
wouldn't consider the complaint further if Mr M and Ms W were taking legal action 
against Mapfre.
Mr M and Ms W didnt agree. They emphasised the warning lights for the causeway crossing 
werent working. They want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and Ms W havent said they are currently taking legal action against Mapfre about their 
claim so I dont know of any reason why I shouldnt consider the complaint. Our investigator 
correctly explained why we cant tell Mapfre to appoint solicitors to accept legal proceedings 
and that Mapfre is responsible for claims decisions. Mapfre is the correct business for my 
decision to be about.
I dont uphold this complaint. I think Mapfre fairly and reasonably said Mr M and Ms W didnt 
take reasonable precautions to avoid loss or damage to their property. Ill explain why.
Mr M and Ms W say the warning lights weren't on at the time they crossed and it was about 
3.30am, so dark or at least not full light. But Mapfres provided its research of the warning 
signs that were at the approach to the causeway. Even if the warning lights werent working 
there are other large standard street signs warning of the danger, which would be possible to 
see in the dark. The signs include a picture of a car underwater saying in English "Risk of 
Drowning", another sign in English saying "Passable only at low tide" and another sign with 
photos of a submerged car saying in English that the route was only passable for an hour 
and a half either side of low tide.
So even if Mr M and Ms W were using a sat-nav, they didnt know they were entering a long 
causeway and the warning lights werent working Im satisfied that there were lots of visible 
signs clearly warning of the risks on the route they were taking. I think its more likely than 
not that Mr M and/or Ms W saw at least one of the warning signs and would have reasonably 
understood the risk they were taking by continuing on the route without first checking that it 
was safe to do so. 
As I dont think Mr M and Ms W took reasonable precautions to prevent loss or damage to 
their property Mapfre fairly declined the claim.
Mapfre took about six months to decline the claim, which was too long. It unnecessarily 
asked Mr M and Ms W for more information when it had enough information from the claim form to decline the claim. That was poor customer service but doesnt mean Mapfre must 
pay a claim that it can fairly decline.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman