The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr and Mrs 
M say Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Halifax hasnt been able to send us the paperwork from the sale. This isnt unusual and its 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where 
there is limited information, I will make my decision based on whats more likely to have 
happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types of sale.
There is some dispute about the date the PPI was sold. Halifax say the PPI was sold in April 
1996. Its pointed to its internal records which show Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage began in 1991 
but without any PPI. Halifax says the PPI was later taken out in 1996.
Mr and Mrs M are certain they took the PPI at the same time as the mortgage in 1991. They 
have shown us a copy of a completed PPI application form from 1991 and a covering letter 
from Halifax dated 5 November 1991.
Ive thought carefully about all this. I can see Mr and M have sent us a letter from Halifax 
dated 27 September 1991. This letter confirms the completion of the mortgage. This letter 
makes no mention of PPI.
The letter dated 5 November 1991 is two months after the mortgage completed and states 
that Mr and Mrs Ms PPI application had been completed incorrectly and that Section B 
should be completed in full and any amendments need be initialled by Mr and Mrs M.
I can see that some amendments have been made to Section B of the form but none of the 
amendments have been initialled. And Mr Ms signature at the bottom seems to be dated 30 
September 1991.
DRN-1910601So I think this is a copy of the original PPI application form returned to Mr and Mrs M by 
Halifax for them to initial the amendments and return. But it doesnt look like the 
amendments were initialled.
So it seems most likely to me that the form was not returned to Hal ifax. Particularly as from 
experience Id expect to see the PPI appear on screenshots Ive seen of Halifaxs internal 
systems.
Taking all this into account I think its most likely the PPI application made by Mr and Mrs M 
in 1991 was not put into force.
Ive therefore looked at whether the policy sold in 1996 was mis-sold.
Having done so Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
By 1996 Mr and Mrs M had held the mortgage for several years without PPI so they would 
have been aware the PPI was not compulsory. Indeed even if they had returned the form 
that was sent to them in November 1991 they would already have held the mortgage since 
September 1991.
Weighing everything up I think its most likely Mr and Mrs M were aware the PPI was 
optional and they chose to take it out although after so many years I can understand if Mr 
and Mrs M cant recall this.
The policy provided cover for Mr M only. Halifax has told us that its adviser would most likely 
have recommended the PPI to Mr M. In which case it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances in I think that it was. I say this 
because:
Mr M was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example he 
didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And he wasnt in an 
unusual employment situation which might not have been covered.
Mr M has told us he would have received some sick pay from his employer if he couldnt 
work. But this particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, 
and for up to 12 months. This is likely longer than Mr M s full sick pay would last. So I still 
think Mr M wouldve found the benefit useful if he had become too unwell to work, 
particularly if he was unwell for a lengthy spell.
And if Mr M lost his job the monthly benefit would mean he could use any redundancy pay 
for other living costs.
Mr and Mrs M did have some savings but they had chosen to keep these intact rather than 
use them to reduce the mortgage. And the PPI policy would mean they didnt have to use 
their savings to pay the monthly mortgage repayment if Mr M couldnt work.
After so many years I cant know what information was given to Mr and Mrs M about the 
policy. So its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs M off taking out the cover.
In summary, I think its likely Halifax made Mr and Mrs M aware the policy was optional and 
they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the poli cy Halifax recommended was right for Mr M. And I dont think any clearer or more complete information wouldve made 
them act differently and decline it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman