DRN-1987730
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) lent 
to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss H took out a total of five loans with MoneyBoat between April and December 2015.
Loan no. Date 
borrowedDate repaid Amount No. of 
instalments
1 01.04.15 29.05.15 £750.00 3
2 29.05.15 20.08.15 £850.00 3
3 06.10.15 20.11.15 £600.00 3
4 22.11.15 18.12.15 £800.00 6
5 21.12.15 20.08.18 £850.00 6
Miss H believes that MoneyBoat was irresponsible to give her the loans. In brief, she says 
that if it had carried out adequate checks, it would have realised that she wasnt in a position 
to take the loans on.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, she thought 
that the credit check that MoneyBoat carried out when Miss H applied for loan 2 ought to 
have alerted it to the likelihood that further borrowing would be unsustainable for Miss H. So  
didnt think MoneyBoat should have made any more loans to Miss H. And she said 
MoneyBoat should pay Miss H some compensation and make some changes to her credit 
file.
MoneyBoat didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Miss H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, and for broadly similar reasons.
As I mentioned earlier, each of Miss Hs loans was repayable in instalments. So the amounts 
that Miss H needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal payday 
loan. But of course she was committing to making those repayments over a longer period.
MoneyBoat did some checks before it lent to Miss H. It asked her for details of her income, 
and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive 
seen a summary of those checks. Miss Hs credit file showed some defaults, but none of 
those had been registered within the last year. And although Miss H already had a couple of 
short-term loans outstanding with other lenders, I dont think that this, in itself, meant that it 
was unreasonable of MoneyBoat make the loan without carrying out more detailed checks at 
this stage. And I think it would have looked to MoneyBoat as if Miss H would be able to 
afford the monthly repayment instalments. So overall, based on the information that it had, I 
cant fairly say that it was unreasonable of MoneyBoat to agree to loan 1. 
But even though less than two months passed between Miss H applying for the first two 
loans, I think that enough new information had come to light by the time she applied for 
loan 2 that MoneyBoat ought to have realised from the information it had that it was highly 
probably that Miss H would be able to repay further borrowing sustainably. I acknowledge that Miss H repaid loan 1 early. But thats not necessarily a sign that a 
borrowers in a healthy financial position. Miss H applied for loan 2 on the day she repaid 
loan 1. Whats more, loan 2 was for more than loan 1. Its true that the repayments would still 
have appeared to be affordable for Miss H, based on the information MoneyBoat had about 
her regular monthly income and expenditure. But I think it should have been apparent to 
MoneyBoat from the credit check it carried out that Miss Hs financial position was 
deteriorating.
The credit report showed that during the time that loan 1 had been open, Miss H had taken 
out two other short-term loans with other lenders. Both those loans were still outstanding 
when Miss H applied for loan 2. In addition to that, the report showed a short-term loan that 
shed taken out a few months before loan 1. Shed fallen behind with repayments on that 
loan, and the lender had registered a default on Miss Hs credit file just a few weeks before 
she applied to MoneyBoat for loan 2.
So taking everything into account, even at this early stage of Miss Hs borrowing from 
MoneyBoat, I think MoneyBoat should have realised that she was having significant 
problems managing her money. And I dont think that MoneyBoat should have agreed to 
lend further to Miss H. 
I acknowledge MoneyBoats comment to the effect that its unrealistic for a lender to 
examine every line of an applicants credit report, particularly in an environment in which 
consumers often need loans urgently. But I consider it reasonable to expect a lender to 
respond appropriately to the information it gathers when assessing a customers application 
to borrow. In this case, Im satisfied that it would have been apparent from even a cursory 
look at Miss Hs credit report that a new default had been registered by the time she applied 
for loan 2. And on examining her credit file further, it would have quickly become evident that 
further borrowing was unlikely to be a sustainable for Miss H.
This means that I find that MoneyBoat shouldnt have made loans 2 to 5 to Miss H.
Putting things right
MoneyBoat shouldnt have made loans 2 to 5 inclusive to Miss H. So MoneyBoat should:
refund all interest and charges that Miss H paid on loans 2 to 5 inclusive;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*; and
remove any negative information about loans 2 to 5 from Miss Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Evergreen Finance London 
Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2020. Juliet Collins
Ombudsman