DRN-3415943
The complaint
Mr E complains about the suitability of the advice provided by D C Financial Limited (D C 
Financial) in January 2018 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr E is represented in this complaint by a law firm (the Representative).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which he provided to both the Representative and D C Financial. I dont intend 
to repeat here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Es employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr E, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr E to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Es safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 8 years and 7 months qualifying service between August 2008 and 
March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, pensionable service 
and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his 
annual scheme pension was £4,360.09. The scheme pension comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the 
term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
escalate annually by a prescribed amount. 
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60. The reduction was applied to reflect the fact that the scheme would have to 
support the income for longer than anticipated, and to protect the interests of scheme 
members generally;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS was £5,521 at 
age 65 and £4,012 at age 60;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £92,691.85. 
Mr E was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He didnt want to be transferred to the PPF. He 
contacted D C financial for advice. He initially met one of its advisers in November 2017. A 
fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire were completed which recorded the 
following information about Mr E:
He was aged 55, in good health, married and had two financially independent 
children aged 35 and 31. His wife was aged 53 and also in good health;
He was employed by Tata Steel and was paid gross annual income of about 
£36,000. He didnt have any plans to retire in the foreseeable future but instead 
envisioned continuing working for Tata Steel until age 65. There wasnt any reference 
to Mr E wanting to retire early. His desired level of retirement income wasnt 
recorded. His wife was employed on a part-time basis by a retail company.
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since                   
March 2017. The total annual contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his gross 
annual salary. This would increase in line with changes to his salary. In addition, he 
had some paid-up DC pension plans valued, in total, at about £65,000 and was in 
receipt of a DB pension of £82 per month which had started at age 50. His wife didnt 
have any private or workplace pension arrangements;
His assets comprised the marital home valued at £125,000 which was owned 
outright. Other than his home and pension arrangements, he didnt have any savings 
or investments;
He didnt have any debts or liabilities. His monthly outgoings were about £1,200 
which left surplus monthly income of around £900;
He had very limited knowledge and experience of investments. He hadnt previously 
obtained financial advice. His risk profile was determined to be Cautious to 
Moderate.In the fact find document, it was noted:
Reasons to consider a transfer:
Trust and uncertainty
Feels flexible income could be more beneficial
Death benefits more appealing
In January 2018, D C Financial issued a suitability report to Mr E in which it recommended 
that he transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP. The report 
confirmed Mr Es reasons for wanting to transfer to a PPP, as follows:
You are uncertain of the future of the scheme and you want control of your own 
pension fund.
You are concerned of the BSPS entering the Pension Protection Fund, and losing the 
flexibility of accessing your fund. Flexibility is important to you.
Concern over benefits being cut further.
To take any tax-free cash, you would have to start taking an income from the British 
Steel Pension Scheme. Penalties are imposed by the BSPS for accessing benefits 
before the normal scheme retirement age of 65.
The inflexible death benefits concern you - after the 50% spouses pension, the 
pension ceases. You feel it is important to be able to pass on any unused pension 
fund to your children and/or grandchildren.
To align with Mr Es Cautious to Moderate risk profile, D C Financial recommended that 
50% of the transfer value be invested in the PPPs providers Cautious fund and that it 
actively managed the other 50%. The costs associated with the recommendation were set 
out in the suitability report, as follows:
Initial charge
£2,317.29  initial adviser charge payable to D C Financial
Ongoing annual charges deducted from the PPP fund value 
1% ongoing adviser charge payable to D C Financial
0.25% product charge payable to the PPP provider
The underlying fund charges for the PPPs providers Cautious fund and the funds to 
be actively managed by D C Financial werent stated in the suitability report
Mr E accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed 
after the provider received the transfer value of £92,691.85.
This complaint
In 2021, the Representative, on behalf of Mr E, complained to D C Financial about the 
suitability of its pension transfer advice. D C Financial didnt uphold this complaint. It stated 
that its recommendation was suitable for the following reasons:
Mr E had lost trust in Tata Steel and was concerned about the value of his preserved benefits being reduced further or transferred to the PPF  he wanted to remove these 
risks by transferring away;
He was given sufficient time and opportunity to read through the Time to Choose 
pack provided to him by the BSPS. The information in the pack was repeated in its 
suitability report. So it was satisfied that he fully understood the options open to him 
before deciding to proceed with the pension transfer; 
The early retirement reductions applied by the BSPS concerned Mr E. He wanted the 
flexibility to choose when and how to take benefits without suffering an early 
retirement reduction;
It made Mr E made aware of the different format of death benefits provided by the 
BSPS2, PPF and PPP options. In the event of his earlier death, he didnt want his 
wife to be limited to receiving a 50% spouses pension and then the benefit ceasing 
on her death. Rather, he wanted his wife to benefit from the full remaining PPP fund 
value with the potential that this could be passed on to their children. Life cover was 
discussed but discounted because Mr E didnt want an ongoing cost;
Mr E had other pension arrangements he could rely on such as his other DC pension 
funds, a small DB pension income of £82 per month and expected State pension. In 
addition, he had recently joined the Tata Steel DC pension scheme where 16% of his 
annual salary was being invested. Therefore, at retirement, he wouldnt be solely 
reliant on his preserved benefits in the BSPS;
The recommended funds in the PPP aligned with his Cautious to Moderate risk 
profile and met his recorded objective for the value of his fund to grow faster than 
inflation; and
It was satisfied that its recommendation met Mr Es objectives regarding control, 
flexibility and maximising death benefits. It commented that the value of Mr Es PPP 
had increased by 18.36% since the transfer and that he had always expressed 
satisfaction with performance until this complaint.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that D C Financials recommendation to transfer wasnt clearly 
demonstrated to be in Mr Es best interests. He noted that the critical yield figures attached 
to the transaction strongly indicated that Mr E would be financially worse off as a result of the 
pension transfer. Ultimately, he wasnt persuaded that it was suitable for Mr E, who was an 
inexperienced investor, to relinquish guaranteed income available under the BSPS2 and 
instead take on the investment risks associated with the pension transfer to a PPP for what 
he considered to be generic objectives relating to control, flexibility and death benefits. 
To put things right, our investigator recommended that D C Financial carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr E opted for the 
BSPS2 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended 
that D C Financial pay Mr E £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation and the realisation that hes likely suffered a significant financial 
loss.
The Representative, on behalf of Mr E, responded and stated that it agreed with the uphold
outcome. It agreed that the BSPS2 should be used for comparison purposes and on thebasis that Mr E would likely take benefits at age 65. And it also requested that D C Financial 
provide it with a breakdown of the loss assessment in a simple, easily understandable 
format.
D C Financial didnt accept our investigators assessment and requested that this complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for review. In summary, it remained satisfied that its advice 
was suitable to meet Mr Es objectives. It later stated that any redress calculation should use 
the PPF as the comparator scheme and not the BSPS2, as suggested by our investigator. 
This was because, in its view, the BSPS2 didnt exist at the time of its advice and was 
merely a proposal and not guaranteed to go ahead. And so it wouldnt be an appropriate 
comparator for the purposes of assessing redress.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked the Representative to
confirm with Mr E that in the event this complaint is ultimately upheld, whether he preferred
redress to be calculated on the current methodology or the updated guidance expected to be
implemented in early 2023. The investigator told the Representative that if we didnt receive
an answer that wed assume Mr E would prefer redress on the current methodology set out
in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable
DB pension transfers. As at the date of this final decision, the Representative didnt confirm
which option Mr E preferred. In its response, D C Financial questioned why Mr E was being 
asked to choose to his preferred redress option when the merits of this complaint were still in 
dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by D C Financial and the Representative on behalf of Mr E. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
D C Financial was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its 
recommendation to Mr E. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the 
rules and consider the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in 
the FCAs Handbook.
Primarily, D C Financial was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr E. The 
suitability rules and guidance that applied when D C Financial provided its recommendation 
to Mr E were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that 
businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs 
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements 
in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Es case  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of D C Financials recommendation, its necessary for me to have 
due regard to the FCAs rules and guidance.
Mr Es situation
The situation for Mr E wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr E. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr E had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, D C Financial.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr E to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. As set out in the Time to Choose pack, there were 
differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For deferred members below the scheme 
normal retirement age, like Mr E, the PPF would provide compensation based on 90% of 
their accrued pension at the scheme normal retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in 
benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential 
for discretionary increases to the accrued pension, a higher level of spouses pension and 
the option to transfer to an alternative pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date 
when needs could be determined with greater accuracy than at 55  the PPF didnt offer 
these additional features.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr E still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Due to his age and circumstances, its my view Mr E
wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF. Given the FCAs view on 
safeguarded benefits and what was known at that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion 
that D C Financial shouldve started its advice process by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to 
be the most suitable option for Mr E and to only recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could 
clearly demonstrate it was in his best interests.
Mr Es objectives
Based on the fact find document and suitability report, Mr E had three broad objectives 
regarding his preserved benefits, summarised as follows:Control  He was concerned about the level of his benefits being reduced further or 
the BSPS falling into the PPF which would result in a 10% reduction in his benefits. 
He had lost trust in Tata Steel. As a result, he wanted control over his pension 
benefits by transferring to a PPP.
 
Flexibility  He considered the ability to take flexible income and tax-free lump sums 
from a PPP to be more beneficial than the rigid benefit structure of the alternative 
options. He was also keen to avoid being penalised for taking benefits earlier than 
age 65. He was concerned that if he didnt transfer to a PPP at that time that he 
could lose the option of flexible benefits by the time he retired.
Death benefits  He was concerned that the 50% spouses pension would cease on 
his wifes death. He was important to him that any unused benefits be passed on to 
his children.
I recognise that Mr Es safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on D C Financial to provide expert, balanced information and 
advice, taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could 
then make an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client 
seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, D C Financial was tasked 
with rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of 
the available options. 
In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to 
facilitate the transaction.
Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system 
(TVAS) rules applied at the time D C Financial advised Mr E. This required it to carry out a 
transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable to the proposed transfer. The 
critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer value, 
after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the DB pension 
scheme on the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a 
lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less 
likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the 
revalued pension payable by the DB pension scheme.
In its suitability report issued in January 2018, D C Financial quoted the following critical 
yield figures to Mr E:
Scheme At age 60 based on taking a 
full pensionAt age 65 based on taking a 
full pension
BSPS 18.74% 11.01%
BSPS2 15.68% 9.15%
PPF 14.56% 8.07%
D C Financials recommendation to Mr E was provided to him after the FCA gave 
instructions in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being 
upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. While businesses 
weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able
to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 is 3.7% based on
Mr E taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. Furthermore, the FCA's 
projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for 
the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. These facts indicate that the critical yield 
figures attached to the proposed transfer could be regarded as very high, implying significant 
investment growth was required by the PPP over the period to age 65 to match the 
relinquished benefits.
Given the critical yield figures applicable in this case and that Mr Es PPP was invested to 
align with his Cautious to Moderate risk profile, I think it was very unlikely that the PPP 
would provide benefits that matched the relinquished benefits, let alone exceed them. And it 
seems that D C Financial agrees because in its suitability report it stated, The critical yield 
required is exceptionally high and it would be very unlikely difficult that an investment could 
provide a return to match the benefits you are giving up. So, from an economic point of 
view, D C Financial agrees with me it was very likely Mr E would be financially worse off by 
transferring on a like-for-like basis when compared to the alternative BSPS and PPF options.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Es recorded 
objectives.
Control objective
Its clear that Mr Es main motivation for considering a pension transfer was due to his 
concerns about the BSPS and the risk that this might fall into the PPF. I accept that such 
concerns were common among steelworkers at the time, and that it wouldve been a major 
motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can understand why Mr E wanted to 
have control over his benefits by transferring to a PPP. 
That being said, D C Financials advice was provided in January 2018, after the Time to 
Choose pack had been issued to members. I think that the risk of the BSPS falling into the 
PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved and the 
BSPS2 was being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most situations 
that were higher than PPF benefits. But, in any event, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF 
was an outcome for Mr E to avoid at all costs. Ill explain why.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr E could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of D C Financials recommendation, the PPFs financial position 
remained robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of 
the PPF to provide benefits in the future.At the time of the advice it was recorded that Mr E didnt have any immediate plans to retire. 
Had D C Financial advised him to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then 
deemed suitable, when he actually required retirement benefits. 
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr E had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a PPP before any 
transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate concern about 
options disappearing for Mr E or that there was an urgency to transfer to a PPP at that time 
to avoid a transfer to the PPF.
If Mr E was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on D C Financial 
to provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this because the suitability 
report doesnt deal with Mr Es concerns about the PPF. So he likely thought that a transfer 
to the PPP was the best course of action.
In summary, I think that D C Financial failed to adequately allay Mr Es misapprehensions 
about the security of his preserved benefits and that he therefore made the decision to 
transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position.
Flexibility objective
The evidence confirms that Mr E didnt have any plans to retire in the foreseeable future but 
instead envisioned continuing working for Tata Steel until age 65. There wasnt any 
reference to him wanting to retire early. And his desired level of retirement income wasnt 
recorded. So it may well have been the case that the income provided by the BSS2 wouldve 
met Mr Es income need but this is unclear. 
I think its fair to say that there wasnt specific flexible or early retirement objectives attached 
to the pension transfer. Rather, it seems that Mr E simply wanted the option to take flexible 
benefits at an indeterminate point in the future should he need it. I dont think it was in his 
best interests to suffer a loss of guaranteed benefits for the sake of an option he wasnt 
certain to need.
D C Financial portrayed the PPP option in the suitability report as allowing for early 
retirement earlier than age 65 without the penalties which would be applied to the PPF or 
BSPS2 options. And in responding to this complaint it stated that Mr E was concerned about 
the early retirement reductions applied to the scheme pension in support of its 
recommendation to transfer. But, as noted above, there wasnt any evidence Mr E intended 
to retire early, so the prospect of an early retirement reduction being applied to the scheme 
pension was, in my view, irrelevant since it was unlikely to apply to his situation based on 
what was recorded about his future plans. In any event, the reality was of course that the 
PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed earlier than 65 and any resulting income 
would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to Mr E so that he 
could understand accessing any of the available options early would likely lead to reduced 
retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at age 65. So I think he 
was uninformed regarding this. I think its clear that Mr E was attracted to a flexible arrangement. But Im not convinced, 
based on the evidence provided, that it was evident at age 55 he had a genuine need to 
access his safeguarded benefits flexibly with varying levels of income and lump sums during 
retirement bearing in mind he had access to other flexible DC benefits. There simply wasnt 
any identifiable need for flexibility that outweighed the loss of guaranteed benefits at that 
time. 
But if its the case that Mr E genuinely required flexibility in retirement then its my view that 
he couldve used his other pension arrangements to achieve this. I note that he had other 
DC pension savings which, at that time, were valued at about £65,000 and, in addition, he 
was an active member of the Tata Steel DC pension scheme. Mr E and Tata Steel were, in 
total, contributing 16% of his gross annual salary of about £36,000 into his DC pension plan 
every year, which was about £5,700 in monetary terms. This would increase in line with 
increases in his salary. As noted above, Mr E envisioned continuing working for Tata Steel 
until age 65. And in the event he left that employment, I think its likely that hed find 
alternative employment and, with the legal requirements of auto-enrolment, would join a 
different DC pension scheme and pay a minimum of 8% of his earnings into it. So over the 
10-year period to age 65, its likely that Mr E would build up additional DC pension savings. 
Therefore, from age 65, any flexible needs couldve been met by his substantial other DC 
pension savings. This would then be supplemented by the guaranteed pension income 
payable by the BS2 from age 65, followed by the State pension from age 67. So, from 65 
onwards, most of Mr Es core retirement income needs couldve been met by guaranteed 
and escalating pensions which wouldve offered some inflation protection unlike the 
recommended PPP. 
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with 
providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to Mr E. But I dont 
think he needed to take on these risks at that time for the reasons explained above.
The course of action recommended by D C Financial led to Mr E concentrating most of his 
retirement benefits on a DC basis which offered no guarantees but was based entirely on 
investment performance. The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested likely wouldve 
enabled Mr E to achieve any flexible-related objectives he had but with significantly less risk. 
I havent seen evidence that D C Financial adequately considered and discounted this 
alternative course of action in meeting Mr Es flexible objective. 
The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why flexibility wouldve 
been a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr E to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at 
that time. 
In conclusion, while I understand Mr E may have liked the idea of future flexibility, I dont 
think D C Financial clearly demonstrated why it was in his best interests to relinquish his 
safeguarded benefits at that time to achieve this. I simply dont agree the perceived 
advantage of flexibility and control of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits offered by 
the BSPS2. 
Death benefits objective
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die.The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are 
taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately 
following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr E withdrew benefits, the death 
benefits available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to the simple 
fact he hadnt accessed and depleted the fund value.
But Mr E was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a 
suitable course of action at that time.
The value of Mr Es safeguarded benefits would represent a significant proportion of his 
retirement provision by the time he came to retire. And so hed likely start using this money 
to meet his income and lump sum needs as soon as he retired. Withdrawing money from the 
PPP to meet his income and lump sum needs from age 65 would likely mean that the size of 
the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than 
expected.
If it was a genuine objective for Mr E to provide a lump sum to his wife and children on his 
death, then life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while 
enabling him to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. In its suitability report, D C 
Financial stated, In discussing the death benefits, we had considered the option of 
implementing life cover to protect your family rather than relying on the death benefits from 
the pension scheme. We had agreed that you wanted to ensure that any accrued benefits 
under the pension were not lost, rather than the added cost for an additional lump sum death 
benefit under a life policy.
However, I cannot see any evidence that D C Financial quantified Mr Es death lump sum 
need, over what term, how this might change over time, how it might be met by other means 
or present personalised life cover quotes to him to enable him to make an informed decision. 
I note that Mr E had disposable income available every month after paying his bills which he 
couldve used to pay for life cover to achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover 
for a defined term is generally cheap and some cover may have been affordable for Mr E 
given he was aged 55 and recorded as being in good health. And if put in trust the policy 
proceeds would fall outside Mr Es estate for inheritance tax purposes, similar to a PPP.
But, in any case, I note that through his employment, Mr E had life cover based on a multiple 
of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £144,000 would be paid in the event 
he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable regardless of whether his 
safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. In addition, the value of his 
DC pension savings, then valued at about £65,000, would likely be paid as a lump sum to 
his nominated beneficiary(ies). So it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly 
while Mr E remained employed by Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £200,000 would be 
paid on his death. As noted above, Mr E intended to remain employed by Tata Steel, so I 
think its fair to say that there wasnt any expectation the death in service benefit would 
disappear in the foreseeable future.
This leads me to conclude that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits in a different format bearing in mind the cover already in place while 
Mr E remained employed by Tata Steel. 
Its my view that Mr E had no health issues at the time D C Financial advised him which 
might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own 
retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his wife and children. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in Mr E transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a 
lump sum death benefit. 
Conclusion
Mr E was recorded as never having previously obtained financial advice and had very little 
understanding or knowledge of investing. That seems accurate based on the evidence. His 
attitude to risk was on the cautious side of medium, so I think its reasonable to conclude that 
the guarantees attached to his safeguarded benefits wouldve been valuable for him.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP 
served any actual need, or that Mr E gained any clearly defined advantage compared to the 
alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. And so Im not persuaded that a pension 
transfer was clearly in his best interests. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint.
If properly informed, would Mr E have transferred anyway?
In potential mitigation of D C Financials advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr E, if 
placed in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of 
his safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr E, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on D C Financial, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. Given Mr Es reliance on D C Financial to provide expert advice, I think its 
unlikely, on balance, he wouldve transferred against its advice had it advised him to opt for 
the BSPS2.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for D C Financial to put Mr E, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mr E been properly advised, he wouldve
opted for the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. 
As noted above, while some information on the benefits of BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, 
I think that by January 2018 the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large 
extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved and the BSPS2 was being proposed 
primarily because it could provide benefits in most situations that were higher than PPF 
benefits.
I acknowledge D C Financials comment that the BSPS2 didnt exist at the time of its advice 
in January 2018 and was merely a proposal and not guaranteed to go ahead. And so it 
doesnt think the BSPS2 would be an appropriate comparator for the purposes of assessing 
redress. I disagree. Firstly, when formulating its recommendation, D C Financial analysed 
and considered the benefits payable by the BSPS2 as one of three potential options for              
Mr E. So, on one hand, it considered the BSPS2 as a possible alternative option for Mr E at 
the time it advised him but, on the other hand, it wants this service to disregard that option 
for redress purposes. That doesnt make sense to me and is illogical.
Its my view that had he been given suitable advice, Mr E wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. And so, with the aim of placing him 
into the correct financial position, I think its fair and reasonable that the benefits offered by 
the BSPS2 should be used for comparison purposes.As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the
basis Mr E takes benefits at the BSPS2 normal retirement age of 65 to align with his 
recorded circumstances.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB pension transfer redress 
guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance  https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr E whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. He didnt 
make a choice. So, as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait 
for any new guidance. Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate 
and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr E.
D C Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension
review guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions. In 
accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance of this 
final decision.
D C Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Es contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Es SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Es PPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the PPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the PPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect D C Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, D C Financial should pay Mr E £300 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused him.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date
D C Financial receives notification of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of this final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
D C Financial to pay Mr E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. Where I uphold
a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs
that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would additionally 
require D C Financial Limited to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require            
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr E any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr E the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E. If Mr E accepts this final 
decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited. My recommendation 
wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept this final decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
D C Financial Limited must provide to the Representative a breakdown of the loss 
assessment in a simple, easily understandable format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman