DRN-4333883
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Probitas Fidelis Limited has denied the 
company access to its online platform and has therefore prevented it from obtaining its 
statements.
What happened
In 2018, D entered an agreement with Probitas Fidelis for the provision of payment services. 
But from December 2019 onwards, D hasnt been able to access the online platform on 
which it should have been able to see details of its transactions, balance and statements.
The Financial Ombudsman Service repeatedly asked Probitas Fidelis for its response to the 
complaint and for other information, but received no reply. In the circumstances, our 
investigator accepted Ds version of events. He recommended that Probitas Fidelis should 
be required to provide D with all of its statements for the period since the beginning of their 
agreement, and should pay £100 to D for the inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite further requests, weve still received no information or response from Probitas 
Fidelis. 
Under our rules (the DISP rules in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook), an 
ombudsman may in these circumstances determine the case on the basis of what 
information is available. The rules are as follows:
DISP 3.5.9RThe Ombudsman may:
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied 
and take account of the failure by a party to provide 
information requested; 
DISP 3.5.14R  If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint;
Ive therefore considered the available information about the complaint, including Ds 
submissions. Having done that, and noting that Probitas Fidelis hasnt taken the opportunity 
to respond to the complaint, Im satisfied that D hasnt been able to access its statements 
and other information because of unfair acts or omissions by Probitas Fidelis. I accept that D 
needs the information for a number of important reasons, and that the company has been 
inconvenienced by not having access to it.
I note that Probitas Fidelis is no longer authorised to provide payment services, according to 
the UK Financial Services Register.
Putting things right
For the above reasons, I agree with the investigators conclusions. Probitas Fidelis Limited 
should provide D with all its statements and should pay £100 for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Probitas Fidelis Limited to provide 
D with all its statements for the period from the beginning of their agreement in 2018 to date, 
and to pay £100 to D for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman