DRN-2318710
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as C&G at the time, mis-sold them mortgage 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) in 1996.  
What happened
Im very sorry it has taken a while to get their complaint to this stage, but one of our 
adjudicators has already provided Mrs and Mr S with a view about this complaint some time 
ago. They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mrs and Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold the complaint.
Having said that, Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mrs and Mr S and that 
they genuinely and honestly believe now that the PPI was mis-sold to them. However, Im 
sure they will also understand that this sale was some 24 years ago. There is very little 
original documentation left to refer to, but as Lloyds is a major lender, Ive evidently seen 
quite a few cases like this one and I know quite a bit about the type of paperwork that 
consumers were normally given.
Whilst I completely accept Mrs and Mr Ss main point of complaint is that they didnt even 
know about the PPI policy, Im afraid my experience is that the insurers would have sent 
them welcome letters and a policy schedule for this type of product. Theres now no dispute 
that PPI was sold, so the insurers would have no reason, in my view, not to send out these 
details. My experience is that the correspondence would have set out the policy numbers, 
the cost of the PPI and who was covered. So, for me to uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint on 
ground of it not being consented to (and added completely without their knowledge) Id need 
to think that none of these documents were ever sent. I consider that quite unlikely.
I also think that, having seen these types of Lloyds sales from the mid-1990s on many 
occasions before, Mrs and Mr S would have needed to authorise the PPI premiums to be 
drawn from their bank account. I also think that in addition to their mortgage application, 
theyd have needed to fill out a separate PPI application too, if the policy was added. I 
appreciate I cannot say for sure now that all this happened, but on the balance of 
probabilities and based on my experience, I think this is what would have taken place.
All this leads me to say its more likely that Mrs and Mr S agreed to the PPI and they would 
have known it had been set up to cover their mortgage borrowing.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mrs and Mr S because Lloyds probably 
recommended this to them as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable.
I say this because they seem to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. I can see from their jobs that they 
may well have enjoyed relatively good protection from sickness and unemployment. But Im 
afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable for them. I think the mortgage 
would have been a significant and long-term financial commitment and secured against 
their home. So the consequences of not being able to make the repayments could have 
been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was designed to pay a substantial monthly 
sum for up to 12 months if they had needed to claim. Therefore, Lloyds putting forward a 
recommendation to have PPI cover wasnt unfair, in my view.
Lloyds also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. As I 
say, we no longer have all the actual paperwork now in respect of Mrs and Mr S, but I think 
its more likely they would have known what the cover was costing and what elements of 
insurance they had agreed to. I think they probably had enough information on which to 
make an informed choice, although I accept entirely that they dont remember this now.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr S. But these events are from a long time ago and to 
uphold their complaint Id need to think it was more likely they never gave their consent or 
that there were other serious flaws in the sale. I simply dont have that evidence and I think 
its more likely they tailored the cover to suit their needs of the time and would have had a 
lot of documentation showing this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint and I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman