DRN-3951191
The complaint
Mrs K is a sole trader. She complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc applied interest to her 
overdraft over a long period of time, which accumulated a debt which it then pressured her to 
clear, without providing reasonable support.
What happened
Mrs K had an overdraft with HSBC. In 2017, HSBC identified that Mrs K was struggling to 
repay this debt, while interest and fees were continuing to accrue. HSBC gave Mrs K two 
periods of interest-free respite, but she was still unable to bring the debt down. HSBC then 
issued various warning letters and eventually called in the debt, passing the account to its 
Recovery Services division. 
In 2021, Mrs K complained to HSBC. She said that, through this period, HSBC had not 
supported her effectively. HSBC responded to say that it had done nothing wrong. It said it 
had acted fairly in pursuing the debt and had provided Mrs K with all reasonable support. 
Separately, around this time, HSBC conducted a review of its collections and recoveries 
processes. This resulted in it identifying that, in Mrs Ks case, although it had followed its 
procedures at the time, it could have delayed slightly the timing of some of its 
correspondence. HSBC paid Mrs K £75 in total as compensation for this.
Not content with HSBCs response to her complaint, Mrs K brought it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things but said that, in her view, HSBC had treated Mrs K fairly. She 
said that the bank had given periods of respite to Mrs K, notified her of what would happen, 
and was entitled to take the actions it had.
As Mrs K didnt agree with this view, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe there are two key issues:
Did HSBC act fairly in charging interest and fees on Mrs Ks overdraft? 
Did HSBC act fairly in how it sought to recover Mrs Ks overdraft, including in the 
support it provided her? 
I consider each in turn.
Charging interest and fees on the overdraft
Mrs K had her overdraft for some considerable time. I have checked the communication sent 
by HSBC to Mrs K  this includes HSBCs banking price list, which sets out the interest and 
fees applying to approved overdrafts, and the terms and conditions of Mrs Ks account, 
which sets out the circumstances in which interest and fees apply. HSBC has confirmed that 
updated versions of its terms and conditions were provided to Mrs K throughout her period of 
borrowing.
I have also checked Mrs Ks monthly statements and confirmed that the interest and fees 
being added to her borrowing were clearly recorded.
Given that HSBC explained to Mrs K what interest and fees would apply to her overdraft and 
clearly set out in her statements the amounts charged each month, I do not believe that the 
bank can reasonably be expected to have done any more to make Mrs K aware of the 
amount she was paying for her borrowing.
I also do not believe HSBC did anything wrong in charging these amounts. While I can 
appreciate that Mrs K would have liked not to have been charged, particularly if she was 
struggling to repay the debt, I do not believe HSBC acted unreasonably in conducting Mrs 
Ks account according to the terms it had agreed with Mrs K, including in the interest and 
fees it charged.
For these reasons, I do not believe HSBC treated Mrs K unfairly in the interest and fees it 
charged her on her overdraft.
Recovering the debt
I have checked the correspondence sent by HSBC to Mrs K in 2017:
In early May, HSBC recognised that Mrs K was struggling to repay the debt and gave 
her a two-month interest-free respite period. At the end of June, it repeated this with 
a further two-month interest-free period.
At the end of August, with the periods of grace expiring, HSBC explained to Mrs K 
how her debt was being treated and what action was required. Soon afterwards, it 
issued a default notice. This was followed in early September by a pre-demand letter.
At the end of September, HSBC issued Mrs K with a final demand notice, warning of 
the debt being passed to a debt collection agency. In October 2017, the debt was 
passed to HSBC Recovery Services, which ultimately agreed with Mrs K a 
substantially reduced settlement amount. This amount was paid, and the debt fully 
settled.
It appears to me that HSBC provided Mrs K with clear updates throughout this process on 
how her debt was being treated and the action required. It also provided two periods of 
interest-free respite; and, ultimately, agreed a settlement of the debt at a substantially 
reduced amount.
I am sure that this process would have been stressful for Mrs K. However, I cannot say that 
HSBC did anything wrong. HSBC followed the terms and conditions of Mrs Ks account in 
line with its standard procedures. 
I note that, subsequently, HSBC reviewed those procedures and found that it could have 
provided Mrs K slightly more time in some of its correspondence. However, in the 
circumstances of Mrs Ks borrowing, I do not believe that would have changed the outcome 
or made any significant difference to the process experienced by Mrs K. Therefore, I believe 
HSBC has fairly compensated Mrs K for this.Overall, while I acknowledge that this period in which her overdraft was called in would have 
been a very difficult time for Mrs K, I believe HSBC acted reasonably to support her, and I 
dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman