DRN-4025031
The complaint
Ms P complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading 
as NFU Mutual (NFU) provided unsuitable investment advice. She mainly feels that she 
was potentially invested at the wrong level of risk and in funds that didnt reflect her ethical 
investment preference. 
To put things right, Ms P wants NFU to:
refund the fee she paid for the advice
pay her financial compensation to cover any investment loss arising as a result of 
being wrongly invested
pay a small award to reflect her time and the inconvenience shes been caused. 
What happened
In April/May 2021, Ms P had two telephone meetings with an NFU advisor to seek advice 
about investment options. Acting on NFUs recommendation, she invested £20,000 in the 
Shrewd Savings Plan ISA in the NFU Mutual SSP ISA With Profits S4. After NFU deducted 
a £700 advice charge, this resulted in £19,300 being invested into the With Profits fund on 
20 May 2021. When Ms P later took other financial planning advice, she realised that the 
investment did not reflect her strongly held ethical investment principles. A year or so later, 
NFU transferred £20,459.02 to Ms Ps new fund manager.
NFU didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. It mainly said that, whilst the advisor recalled Ms P 
having mentioned that shed been invested in an ethical fund, there was nothing in the file 
notes or the financial report prepared by the advisor showing that Ms P had wished to 
invest only in an ethical fund.
Ms P wasnt happy with this response so she brought the complaint to us. After considering 
the complaint, our investigator didnt feel shed seen enough to show that NFU had done 
anything wrong.  
Ms P didnt agree with the investigator. In brief summary, she feels it is unfair and 
unreasonable to say that there is insufficient evidence to support her complaint when the 
onus was on the advisor, as the professional, to ensure he collected and recorded the right 
information to understand Ms Ps investment objectives and give suitable advice.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
Id like to reassure Ms P that whilst I have summarised things in my own words, Ive 
considered everything both sides have provided. We offer an informal service as a free 
alternative to the courts and this is reflected in my approach. Ive focused on what seem to 
me to be the core issues and I will deal with everything that affects the outcome.
A central part of Ms Ps complaint is that the advisors record of their discussions doesnt 
reflect what she says were her clear intentions and instructions to invest only in ethical funds 
and businesses. Ms P put things this way: Ethical investing is something which is 
extremely important to me, my only previous investment recommended by a different 
financial adviser was invested ethically, and all my current investments are ethical. It is 
something that matters to me very much and I care very deeply about the impact that my 
investments have on the world.
From what Ms P says, its clear that ethical investment was an important priority for her. I've 
taken into account that shed previously been invested ethically and its not in dispute that 
the advisor was aware of this.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Ms P and NFU and reach an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision. It is important to make clear that my findings are made on a 
balance of probabilities, in other words, what is more likely than not, based on the evidence 
that has been provided by the parties. To uphold this complaint there would have to be 
persuasive evidence that made it more likely than not that NFU had done something wrong. 
Ive thought carefully about what Ms P says about NFUs failure to document her ethical 
investment wishes and I appreciate that she feels this was a clearly communicated and 
specific investment objective. 
I dont doubt that she is certain about what shes told us. But what Ms P says isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint when there is contradictory information and 
a lack of supporting evidence that would enable me to find in her favour. The advisor was responsible for obtaining the information he required in order to be able to 
give Ms P suitable investment advice and he should have recorded the key points of their 
fact-finding discussion in the financial report he prepared in April 2021. This does not include 
any specific mention of the fact that Ms P wanted to invest exclusively in ethical funds. It 
states that the advisor will  recommend funds based on your attitude to risk and investment 
strategy. The report goes on to say:  we have agreed that a Mutually Managed' funds 
approach is the most appropriate for your objective and attitude to risk, I will only 
recommend funds that fall into this category and the recommended fund Ms P ultimately 
invested in fits well with your attitude to risk and your views about the market sector you 
wanted to invest in.
NFU told us it didnt offer an ethical fund that matched Ms Ps attitude to risk. It did however 
have an ethical fund in its portfolio and said this could potentially have been offered had this 
been Ms Ps only or overriding concern. 
The report was prepared by the advisor around the time they talked on the phone and sent 
to Ms P shortly afterwards. It ran to fourteen pages and seems to be a reasonably 
comprehensive overview of the key considerations that needed to be reflected in the advice 
provided. Ms P signed the paperwork the advisor sent her, including the financial report, on 
9 May 2021, after shed had an opportunity to read and consider what the advisor had 
recorded from their discussion and the recommendation being made. I think it's fair to say 
that if Ms P had felt at the time that investing ethically was the most important consideration 
so far as she was concerned, then its likely that she would have expected and wanted to 
see this specifically mentioned in the report. This would have provided reassurance that the 
advisor had taken note of her ethical investment requirements. The report however makes 
no mention of ethical investment being a priority for Ms P and the recommended investment 
is not described as ethical. And even though theres quite detailed information in the 
product information, theres nothing suggesting that the recommended investment was 
ethically based.  
If Ms P had felt that the advisors financial report didnt properly reflect what she had told him 
about her investment priorities and what she believed were her clearly expressed wishes 
and intentions to prioritise investing in ethical investment over all other investment goals, 
then I think its more likely that she would have commented on this at the time. Ms P has 
said she raised no concerns only because she didnt study the paperwork more closely. But 
I must consider that, in the circumstances she now describes, she might reasonably have 
wanted to know, for instance, why there was no mention of ethical investment in the report if 
this had been the main investment priority from her point of view and she thought she had 
made this very clear. There were opportunities for her to have asked questions before 
proceeding. By signing and returning the advisors paperwork, Ms P confirmed and accepted 
the contents of the report and the advice provided at the time. 
Im also mindful of the scope for misunderstanding between two people who didnt know 
each other speaking over the phone. This might be why although Ms P is sure she made her 
ethical considerations very clear, this doesnt match the advisors understanding. And that 
would help explain why their respective recollections of what was discussed are so different. 
I must be impartial and I mention these things to illustrate some of the considerations I must 
balance when making my decision. This leads me to conclude, based on all the information I've seen and been told, that I cant 
fairly uphold Ms Ps complaint that NFU provided unsuitable advice when it failed to reflect 
Ms Ps ethical investment principles in its recommendation. 
Before reaching a final decision, Ive also thought about the question of wider suitability. As 
far as I can see, Ms P was in a position to invest as she did in 2021. With more than £450 
disposable income each month, no debts, no dependants and ample funds on deposit to 
provide a financial cushion in the event of unforeseen expenses or emergency spending 
needs arising, I am satisfied that she had sufficient financial resources to be able to absorb 
loss in pursuit of the capital growth she wanted when she invested the £20,000. Her 
circumstances and financial situation were stable for the foreseeable future so I dont think 
the recommended minimum 5 years term to make this investment worthwhile was 
unsuitable. 
The financial report completed by the adviser and approved by Ms P shows that her 
objective was capital growth  she wanted the opportunity to achieve better returns than she 
could expect on her deposit based account where she kept the rest of her capital. Given this 
objective, I think that Ms P needed to invest in a risk-based investment.
The financial report refers to A Guide To Investing With NFU Mutual as the basis for 
detailed talks between the advisor and Ms P which established that her attitude to risk was 
what NFU described as Risk level Three.
This was summarised by NFU as follows:
You are prepared to put money at risk and accept that values can fall, but will try to avoid 
any investments that could lead to a large loss. You want to have the potential for growth 
significantly higher than that typically on offer with deposit accounts, but accept that high 
returns are unlikely.
You accept that other investments may provide the potential for better returns by taking a 
greater risk. You can invest for the longer term, say five years or more, and do not expect 
you will have to sell your investments earlier. You are comfortable putting around two thirds 
of your investments into shares of companies in well-established markets, and the rest in 
lower risk investments such as bonds and cash. An investor in this risk level is typically 
someone who has a good level of knowledge of the most popular types of investments.
Ms P has taken issue with this evaluation of her risk approach and said she had absolutely 
no investment experience and she placed her trust in the advisor. But she mentioned having 
had an ethical investment previously, so she had at least some limited investment 
experience. Im mindful also that an ethical investment may well have been relatively high 
risk, given the specialist, niche nature of such investments making them tend towards 
volatility. In fact, the advisor ultimately assessed her in the bottom half of NFUs scale which 
comprises six risk levels. Ms P was able to see information showing that her NFU Mutual 
SSP ISA With Profits S4 fund would be invested in a mix of UK based and global equities 
alongside fixed interest securities and properties  in other words, it included some more 
volatile products balanced by less risky investments  which would broadly fit NFUs overall 
description of Risk level Three. And looking at her investment objectives and aims set out in 
the report, I cant conclude that she was advised by NFU to invest with too much risk  
especially keeping in mind that around half her capital was kept in low risk deposit based 
savings. Overall, Ms P had an investment strategy that didnt leave her over exposed to more 
investment risk than it looks to me like Ms P would have been comfortable taking. 
Ms P seems to have wanted a managed fund. The recommended product was tax efficient 
and included an element of life cover which I think might have offered an additional useful 
benefit to Ms P, who had close family she liked to help out financially from time to time. 
I am looking at whether NFUs investment advice was suitable and I havent seen enough to 
make me think that the recommended investment was too risky for Ms P or otherwise 
unsuitable. To sum up, I consider that Ms P was in a strong enough financial situation to be 
able to invest £20,000, the fund reflected her risk approach at the time and she wanted an 
investment that would give her the chance of a better return compared to keeping the money 
in a savings account  which the recommendation offered. So I find that the advice provided 
met Ms Ps identified needs and investment objectives and it was suitable for her. This 
means Im not upholding this complaint and it follows that I cant award the redress Ms P 
would like me to.
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Ms P but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
It may be some consolation to Ms P to know that had she invested £19,300 into NFUs ASI 
Global Ethical Equity Fund on 20th May 2021 and transferred out on 4th May 2022, the 
amount transferred out would have been £19,027.45. So she wouldve lost out financially 
over the same time period. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman