DRN-2820961
The complaint
Mr P complains to IG Markets Limited about losses incurred through his spread betting and 
contracts for difference (CFD) accounts.
 
What happened
In March 2015, Mr P opened a spread betting account with IG. In July, he opened up a CFD 
account too. Mr P placed over 1,000 trades, but says he went on to lose around £11,000. As 
he was unhappy about the risks involved and the fact that IG allowed him to trade despite 
his inexperience, he made a complaint.
IG looked into his concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said theyd 
fulfilled their regulatory duties and provided warning about the risks which Mr P had 
accepted. Unhappy with this, Mr P asked for our help.
One of our investigators looked into whatd happened but she agreed with IG  while she 
recognised Mr Ps lack of experience, she noted hed accepted a warning and chose to trade 
anyway. 
Mr P didnt agree  he said, in summary, that shed failed to consider one of the rules within 
the regulations that asked IG to consider his circumstances before allowing him to trade. He 
didnt think IG had given any substantive deliberation over opening the account despite 
knowing about his lack of experience. He didnt think IG has acted in line with regulatory 
principles around their application of care, skill and diligence or when considering his best 
interests. As an agreement wasnt reached, the matter was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As IG are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the regulators handbook  
the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats relevant here. IG werent required to 
assess the suitability of Mr Ps upcoming trading given they werent going to be giving him 
any advice  his account was opened on an execution only basis so it was for him to decide 
which trades to make. However, COBS 10 required IG to assess his appropriateness to 
trade as he did. In other words, this required them to gather relevant information from Mr P 
in order to decide whether he had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand 
the risks involved. 
Looking at the answers Mr P provided, I can see that he didnt have the knowledge and 
experience to pass the appropriateness test. He was aged 35 when he opened the account, 
he said he had no trading experience, no professional experience, was employed as a 
regional manager earning somewhere between £25,000 and £74,999 and had somewhere 
between £20,000 and £49,000 in savings. When asked about his experience with asset 
classes such as shares, bonds and derivatives, he answered rarely or never indicating he 
had little to no investment experience. He also told IG he had no other experience or 
qualifications which would assist in his understanding of the services on offer. 
Mr Ps answers indicated he wasnt an appropriate candidate for this sort of trading. IG 
displayed a warning to this effect. It said: 
On the basis of the information you have provided us, we do not consider that a 
spread betting account is appropriate for you. You may still open a spread bet 
account but you should note that you may be exposing yourself to risks that fall 
outside your knowledge and experience. Our websites contain a wealth of free 
educational material, including webinars, about spread betting and we recommend 
you familiarise yourself with this material before you commence dealing with us.
I acknowledge your warning that a spread betting account may not necessarily be 
appropriate, but I wish to proceed with my application nonetheless. I confirm I 
understand the risks associated with spread betting.
Mr P ticked to confirm and proceed. 
Having given the warning, and with it being accepted, IG then had the option to either turn 
down Mr Ps application or proceed with it. They chose to proceed and allow the account to 
be opened. Mr P may now argue this wasnt the right thing to do, but the regulators rules 
permitted IG to do this  despite the fact IG didnt consider Mr P an appropriate candidate for 
trading, it doesnt follow that they did anything wrong by letting him open an account anyway. 
If a firm warns the client of their concerns but they wish to proceed, the firm is able to open 
an account  but at 10.3.3.guidance asks them to have regard for the wider circumstances, 
something which Mr P now challenges. 
Consideration for whether it was fair and reasonable for IG to let Mr P trade involved a 
balance between the rules and guidance. IG had to treat Mr P fairly and act in his best 
interests, but Mr P now says risking so much money on spread betting wasnt in his interest. 
Despite this, we must recognise that the rules allow businesses to open these sorts of 
accounts despite failure of appropriateness tests providing warnings are given. The 
guidance and the rules cant be incompatible  spread betting or CFD trading cant be so 
contrary to a customers interests that they could never open an account if they failed an 
appropriateness test, or thats what the regulator would have said in the rules. So all the 
circumstances must be considered and a balanced view taken.
Arguably IG could have done more to consider Mr Ps particular application before opening 
his account. Yet we must also recognise they warned him they didnt think the account was 
appropriate for him. He chose to ignore those warnings and proceed anyway. He chose to 
trade and indeed did so for some time. None of these were things IG advised him to do. He 
also told them he was employed, had an income and had some savings  so I dont think 
other concerns about Mr P ought to have been triggered. 
Looking at Mr Ps trading history, in the first month he had his account he placed 28 trades  
some winning, some losing. The next month, he placed 46 trades and made a profit over 
£1,000. Followed by another month with 92 trades but over £3,000 in losses. So I think by 
this point theres no question Mr P understood the risks he was exposing himself to and the 
way the product worked. So by the summer of 2015, Mr P had experienced losing money 
and winning money. Mr P then opened his CFD account and I think it was then fair for IG to 
not have given him the same warning, given the experience hed gained  and Im 
persuaded that even if they had, Mr P would have accepted it as he did before. 
I sympathise with Mr Ps situation as it does appear that he lost money throughout his 
trading years. But I dont agree this means they did anything wrong. Importantly, we must 
recognise IG warned Mr P that they didnt think the account was appropriate for him, but he chose to accept the warning and proceed regardless. So despite Mr Ps inexperience and 
the financial situation he tells us of now, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for the 
risks he accepted at the time and the decisions he made to trade to now be transferred to IG 
by way of them compensating him for his losses.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman