DRN-1933008
 
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs A complain that Nationwide Building Society misled them into thinking theyd 
be able to borrow more than they could as the adviser didnt correctly record that they owned 
a buy-to-let property that was already mortgaged with Nationwide.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs A were relocating just over hundred miles away. They obtained a decision in 
principle in branch on 24 October 2019 and were told theyd be able to borrow up to 
£350,000 which was a 92% loan to value (LTV).
On 24 January 2020  the day the decision in principle was expiring  they had an offer 
accepted on a property, so they arranged another branch appointment.
At this appointment  on 27 January 2020  the adviser keyed the application correctly, 
taking account of the second property, which reduced the maximum loan to £285,000. Thats 
because Nationwide caps the LTV at 85% when theres a second property mortgaged with it.
That wasnt enough to buy the property they wanted so Mr K and Mrs A sourced a mortgage 
elsewhere so their purchase could go through.
Nationwide apologised for the initial misinformation and credited £100 to Mr K and Mrs As 
account as compensation.
Our investigator thought Nationwides offer was fair. Mr K and Mrs A didnt agree and so its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr K and Mrs A wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments 
to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do
happen. In this case Mr K and Mrs A were told they could borrow more than they were able 
to. This is a mistaken statement of facts; otherwise known as a misrepresentation. When 
were looking at complaints of this type, we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the
consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been given. We
dont put them in the position they would be in if it had been correct.
Mr K and Mrs A could never have been in the position where Nationwide was willing to lend 
them the higher amount. The mistake was corrected within days of them having an offer 
accepted on the property they wanted to buy. That means Mr K and Mrs A have already had 
the appropriate remedy in that they knew the true position before they were legally tied to 
buying the property. Despite this Mr K and Mrs A chose to go ahead.
Mr K and Mrs A have said the compensation doesnt take into consideration the costs they 
incurred in searching for a property. Whilst I understand Mr K and Mrs As point thats not a 
cost wed award here as its clear from their submissions that they always intended to make 
the move, so would always have incurred those costs irrespective of the mis-information 
from Nationwide. Its most likely that if Nationwide had given them the correct information in 
October 2019 then Mr K and Mrs A would have done exactly what they did in January 2020 
and simply sought another lender that would lend them enough.
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards
arent punitive. We dont make awards to ensure a business realises it made a mistake. 
Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. Nationwide has paid £100 
and having looked at all the evidence  and keeping in mind the level of award we normally 
make  I consider that to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense that I consider Nationwide 
Building Society made a fair payment of compensation in its response to Mr K and Mrs As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman