DRN-4351379
The complaint
Mrs K complains that due to delays in Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds)
handling of a claim she made for escape of water damage, her contents items have been
caused secondary damage.
What happened
Mrs K returned home in December 2022 to discover an escape of water from a burst pipe in
her loft had caused extensive damage. She made a claim to Lloyds, her building insurer.
Lloyds said that Mrs K only had buildings cover, so any contents damaged by the escape of
water wouldnt be covered. Lloyds also needed additional information from Mrs K about her
occupancy of the property before the claim could be accepted.
Ultimately the claim was accepted in February 2023 and strip out works could then proceed,
and from my understanding, repairs are still ongoing. However, Mrs K complains that
because of Lloyds handling of her claim, her contents have been caused secondary
damage, so she wants Lloyds to cover the cost of these.
Across the claim and complaints Mrs K raised, Lloyds paid £225 compensation for their
handling of the claim including delays.
As Mrs K remained unhappy, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt uphold it. He said there was
no evidence to support Lloyds was responsible for the reported secondary damage to
Mrs Ks contents, so he didnt recommend they do anything further.
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
Having looked into what Mrs K has complained about, to both Lloyds and this 
service, I think there has been some confusion by our investigator. I say this because 
its clear from all the information provided, including Mrs Ks communication with 
Lloyds, that she is complaining her contents have been secondary damaged by 
mould. Whereas in communication with our investigator at one point, Mrs K 
mentioned moths and its this, rather than mould damage, which the investigator 
solely focussed on.
If it was this, then I agree with the outcome the investigator reached that there isnt 
any evidence to support moth damage as a result of Lloyds actions. However, Ive 
considered the alleged secondary mould damage. And Im minded to conclude, on 
balance, that Lloyds is responsible for this and needs to do more here to put things 
right. Ill explain why.
Mrs K doesnt have contents cover under her insurance policy with Lloyds. From all 
the information that has been provided, it appears Mrs K used to have this cover, but 
she removed it in 2020 and hasnt had that cover since. So, Mrs K cant claim under 
her insurance policy for damage caused solely by the escape of water to her 
contents items.
However, Mrs K is complaining that Lloyds actions have resulted in secondary 
damage by mould to her contents, and they now need replacement solely due to this, 
rather than the escape of water.
The claim was reported in December 2022 and Lloyds arranged for a claims handler 
to be appointed. Following early discussion with Mrs K, communication broke down 
and Mrs K asked for a different claim handler to be appointed, but none were 
available at that time. During this period, Lloyds also required further information from 
Mrs K surrounding her occupancy of the property. Ultimately Lloyds obtained all the 
information they required in February 2023, which meant the claim could then 
proceed.
Lloyds is entitled to ask reasonable questions in order to validate a claim. And I think 
it did so here by asking questions about occupancy of the property. There were some 
points where questions could have been asked sooner, and delays occurred, and 
Lloyds has recognised this, by paying a total of £225 compensation across the claim 
and complaints.
However, during this time of claim validation, the property had drying equipment 
installed, but couldnt effectively dry until strip out works were completed. And this 
didnt happen until the end of March 2023. And Lloyds contractor had already 
highlighted how damp the property was during their inspection in December 2022 
before things went on hold, and that stripping out needed to be completed to allow 
the property to dry:I would recommend all downstairs rooms inclusive of the stairwell are 
stripped back to brick and the ceilings dropped as they are holding moisture 
which is visible.
And after the occupancy question had been resolved and the claim was agreed in
February 2023, there were concerns raised by Lloyds agent that the property wasnt 
drying  but stripping out wasnt then completed until late March 2023.
This meant that from December 2022 to March 2023, the property remained cold and 
very wet. Whilst there was drying equipment in the property from early on in the 
claim, this wasnt effective due to the strip out not being carried out and the wet 
carpets remaining in situ. This resulted in Mrs Ks contents items which remained in 
the property being subjected to cold and damp conditions for several months over the 
winter period.
Mrs K was made aware that the contents damaged by the leak wouldnt be covered 
from the outset (although she didnt agree), and she moved the undamaged items 
away from the damaged rooms. However, from the information provided, Lloyds 
identified that the contents would likely be damaged by mould if they remained in the 
property, and this was noted from the outset in the drying company report carried out 
on 28 December 2022:
PH has put contents in the conservatory area for the most part however 
these are going to start to mould due to the elevated relative humidity 
readings
But I cant see that Mrs K was ever told about the risk to her contents after this was 
identified in December 2022. And this is reflected in Lloyds complaint investigation 
where they asked those involved in the claim - but they didnt advise of any 
discussions or advice given:
Action was taken by the customer to move some assumed unaffected 
contents into the conservatory but they have now succumbed to the moisture 
present and some mould. The kitchen is full of mould now and already water 
damaged but some contents were present and affected also. Carpets would 
have been damaged by the leak so I dont feel the delay affected these 
further.
The customer wouldnt have had any idea how long we would take to agree 
the claim but in hindsight could have removed some carpet herself to remove 
moisture  if we had recommended this then maybe some further contents 
could have been saved.
Therefore, Mrs Ks contents remained in the cold and damp conditions to when the 
stripping out was started in mid-March 2023, and were subject to mould growth and 
damage as a result. Given Lloyds were experts in claims, compared to Mrs K, it 
would have been reasonable for Lloyds to provide guidance to Mrs K about what she 
needed to do to mitigate any further damage.And given the condition of the property, Mrs K would have had limited knowledge of 
what was happening inside her property, either that it wasnt drying and remained 
very wet, or that damage was being caused by mould whilst Lloyds investigations 
were ongoing. And whilst Lloyds is entitled to ask reasonable questions about the 
occupancy of the property, as they already recognise, Mrs K would have had no idea 
how long this would take.
The notes also reflect that Mrs K had raised her own concerns about potential for 
damage to be caused to her contents whilst they remained in her damp property. But 
no advice appears to have been given by Lloyds after that point.
So, whilst Mrs K took action to mitigate damage to her undamaged contents 
immediately following the escape of water, and flagged her concerns with Lloyds 
later into the claim, I cant see that she was made aware that damage was actually 
being caused whilst they remained in a cold and damp property for several months, 
or that she needed to do anything to avoid this.
The notes indicate Lloyds recognised what had happened when they visited in 
February 2023:
(Drying Company) air movers were on to try and prevent further damage but 
mould is evident all in the kitchen, on contents, in cupboards and surfaces.
The carpets are still in situ and the plaster and ceilings/walls still showing wet 
due to the vinyl paint trapping moisture and sold (sic) brick wall in the middle 
of the house visible where plaster has fallen off is sodden.
Contents from the bedroom and kitchen have been emptied apart from larger 
goods inc fridge freezer, cupboard, dresser then sofas, curtains misc contents 
placed in the lounge and conservatory.
Lloyds already noted Mrs K was overwhelmed and distressed with what had 
happened and was struggling with the claim. And as experts in insurance claims, I 
think Lloyds should have done more in relation to providing guidance to Mrs K about 
what was happening with her undamaged contents, and what she needed to do to 
mitigate any damage. But they didnt, and due to this they were caused secondary 
damage by mould.
So, I think Lloyds failing to do this has resulted in secondary damage being caused to
previously undamaged contents items, so Im minded to conclude that Lloyds needs 
to deal with these items.
However, its unknown at this stage what items are damaged solely by them 
remaining in the property, rather than by the escape of water itself. Therefore, I cant 
direct Lloyds what items they need to specifically consider or settle at this stage. 
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Ill be directing Lloyds to consider Mrs Ks contents items, which were solely 
damaged as a result of remaining in her property after the escape of water.If my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, then both Mrs K 
and Lloyds then will need to discuss the damaged items, and Mrs K will likely need to 
provide information to Lloyds to be able to consider this further. Lloyds will then need 
to make an offer to Mrs K for those damaged items. If Mrs K remains unhappy with 
the settlement that Lloyds ultimately then offers, shell need to raise this with Lloyds 
as a new complaint, before referring back to this service if she remains unhappy - in 
accordance with our usual rules and timescales.
Its clear that having your home extensively damaged will be distressing in itself, and 
also discovering you dont have contents cover will significantly add to this. However, 
I think Mrs K has been caused additional distress by her undamaged contents being 
caused secondary mould damage, as a result of Lloyds handling of the claim. With 
this in mind, in addition to the £225 compensation already paid, Im also minded to 
direct Lloyds to pay Mrs K a further £250 compensation.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Lloyds to consider Mrs Ks contents 
items that suffered secondary damage as a result of remaining in the damp property, and to 
pay Mrs K a further £250 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds responded to say they agreed with the provisional decision.
Mrs K also said she agreed with the provisional decision. She attempted to send some 
additional videos of her property during the claim but was unable to do so. She asked if I had 
seen the images and videos she sent previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions I reached.
To reassure Mrs K, I have seen the images and videos she sent in previously of her property 
after the loss occurred, and they were taken into account when reaching my provisional 
decision.
As neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart from my provisional 
findings, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for
the same reasons.
As I outlined in my provisional decision, its unknown at this stage what items are damaged 
solely by them remaining in the property, rather than by the escape of water itself. Therefore, 
I cant direct Lloyds what items they need to specifically consider or settle at this stage.
If Mrs K accepts my final decision, both Mrs K and Lloyds will need to discuss the damaged 
items, and Mrs K will likely need to provide information to Lloyds to be able to consider this 
further. Lloyds will then need to make an offer to Mrs K for those damaged items. 
If Mrs K remains unhappy with the settlement that Lloyds ultimately then offers, shell need 
to raise this with Lloyds as a new complaint, before referring back to this service if she 
remains unhappy - in accordance with our usual rules and timescales.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to:
Consider Mrs Ks contents items that suffered secondary damage as a result of 
remaining in the damp property
Pay Mrs K a further £250 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman