DRN-2262819
The complaint
Miss H said she was given misleading information by Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited trading as Hastings. She is also unhappy about the service Hastings have provided 
throughout her claim.
What happened
Miss H had a car accident in October 2019. She claimed on her insurance through Hastings.  
Miss Hs car was deemed a total loss, so she received a settlement. Miss H received an 
email telling her the third-party insurer was disputing liability. Miss H then got a letter from 
the third-party insurer telling her the claim was being taken to court. She contacted Hastings 
as this made her very anxious. She then received conflicting information about the case 
going to court. She complained about the incorrect information and initially received £75 
compensation. Miss H complained further and received an additional £35 compensation. 
Miss H was unhappy with the lack of recognition towards the complaints, so she requested a 
full copy of the complaints procedure, and copies of all correspondence on file for the claim. 
Miss H also requested a timeline of events showing how the claim had been handled, 
including correspondence to and from the third-party insurer. Miss H received some 
information, but not the information in relation to the third-party. Miss H said she doesnt feel 
Hastings have been supporting her. 
Our investigator said that unfortunately, claim delays are often unavoidable. So she didnt 
think Hastings were responsible for the time the claim was taking. On the court proceedings, 
our investigator said that there had been incorrect information given to Miss H and some 
compensation for this has been paid. Regarding a statement from Miss Hs partner that has 
only just been requested, our investigator said Hastings hadnt done anything wrong. 
Regarding Miss Hs request for third party data, our investigator said she couldnt reasonably 
ask Hastings to provide this. Although she did feel that Hastings shouldve told Miss H this, 
rather than making her feel ignored. Regarding Miss Hs complaints, our investigator couldnt 
see any evidence that Miss H registered a complaint in December 2019. She was satisfied 
that Hastings dealt with the complaint in line with the regulations when it had been logged.
When assessing compensation, our investigator said that although a total of £110 had 
already been paid in compensation, she felt it didnt fully reflect the trouble and upset 
caused. So she suggested the total compensation should be increased to £200.
Hastings didnt agree. They said theyd told Miss H early on that their next contact would be 
when liability had been determined. They said they knew Miss H wanted updates, which they 
said they would provide. But they said they couldnt always give an update when theres 
standstill from the third party. Hastings said that from the start theyve told Miss H theyre 
representing her under her insurance and that she should forward any court correspondence 
to them. They said this removes any work for Miss H and stops any potential upset as Miss 
H would know that Hastings are accountable for the court process. In terms of chasing 
information relating to the third party, Hastings said theyd replied to her request for 
information. They said theyd told her that they cant send third party data. They felt that 
£110 compensation was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at the impact the incorrect information had on Miss H, as this is key to 
deciding fair compensation. 
Hastings have already paid Miss H £110 compensation. They said this covered the poor 
service she got when they:
- didnt respond as quickly as they shouldve to requests for updates in December 
2019 
- didnt respond as quickly as they shouldve in March 2020 after the initial closure of 
her complaint
- gave Miss H incorrect information about the court case in January 2020.
Miss H has complained about Hastings lack of communication. She feels she should have 
been updated more. She feels that Hastings didnt acknowledge her complaints in full and 
closed her complaint case before theyd fully responded. Ive reviewed the full complaints file 
and all the information both Miss H and Hastings have provided. Ive seen no evidence that 
Hastings didnt respond in a timely manner to all of Miss Hs complaints. I know Miss H says 
she first complained in December by e-mail, but Ive seen no evidence of that complaint. 
Hastings have said they will review the complaint if Miss H can provide that e-mail. So I cant 
say that Hastings didnt respond to her complaints. Therefore, I dont think Hastings needs to 
do more than they already have in respect of this aspect of the complaint. In terms of the 
updates Miss H has received from Hastings, they explained that theyd update Miss H when 
the liability had been determined. Ive seen no evidence that they didnt provide reasonable 
updates over the course of the claim. So I dont think Hastings did anything wrong with their 
updates.
Our investigator felt that £110 wasnt enough for the trouble and upset Miss H had been 
through. She said she felt that Hastings shouldve told Miss H that they couldnt give her 
third party data, rather than making her feel ignored. But Hastings have confirmed that they 
did tell Miss H that they couldnt give her this data. Ive seen the e-mail chain dated 1 July 
2020 covering this topic. I can see that Hastings did explain to Miss H that they wouldnt be 
able to give her this data. Hastings didnt ignore her request. However, I agree with our 
investigator that £110 wasnt enough for the trouble and upset Miss H had been through. It 
wouldve been very distressing thinking that shed have to face court proceedings 
unexpectedly. And not getting rapid reassurance from Hastings about this wouldve made 
matters worse.
Hastings accepted their service couldve been better, and that theyd given Miss H 
incorrect/misleading information. Hastings first offered £75 compensation, and then a further 
£35 when Miss H added to her complaint. Having considered both the issues Miss H raised 
and Hastings responses to those complaints, I dont think £110 is a fair amount to reflect the 
trouble and upset caused to Miss H. I will ask Hastings to pay Miss H £90 in additional 
compensation, taking the total compensation for trouble and upset to £200.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold the complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited trading as Hastings to pay Miss H an 
additional £90 for the trouble and upset theyve caused her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman