DRN-3967016
The complaint
Mrs C complains Tesco Personal Finance plc trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) unfairly 
marked adverse entries on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs C says she was experiencing a short-term financial issue in July 2021, following her 
husbands tax code alteration when he changed jobs. 
Mrs C has two credit card accounts with Tesco card 1 and card 2.
Mrs C says she arranged with Tesco Bank to allow her to delay her monthly payments for 
both credit card accounts. Mrs C says she checked her Tesco app and it informed how much 
she needed to pay into her credit card accounts, which she did. Mrs C says she then learnt 
her credit file had an adverse marker against her name and queried this with Tesco.
Mrs C says Tesco admitted its app was showing incorrect information and offered her £100 
to compensate her for that and the misinformation she had received in a phone call with 
them, but it  hasnt agreed to remove the adverse credit markers. 
Mrs C says the credit file markers prevented her being able to secure her mortgage on better 
interest terms and wants Tesco to remove them. 
Tesco says Mrs C was already in arrears when she telephoned them in early August 2021, 
as she had missed July 2021s payments on both her credit card accounts. Tesco accepts 
its app was having issues, however this only affected customers who were already in arrears 
 so it wasnt the reason why Mrs C missed her payments to them. Tesco also says while a 
member of staff had misled Mrs C about what would be reported on her credit file, it had 
agreed to pay her £100 by way of apology for that.  
Tesco says Mrs C was told on more than one occasion and in writing, what she needed to 
pay to her credit card accounts, so Mrs C should have been aware of what was required of 
her. Tesco says Mrs C not only paid insufficient funds into her credit card accounts in line 
with the arrangements put in place, albeit by fairly modest amounts, she had also made the 
payments late.
Tesco have pointed out it has a responsibility to inform the relevant credit agencies of its 
customers account activity and has done nothing wrong. 
Mrs C wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but initially only looked at Mrs Cs 
complaint regarding card 1. After discussions with both Mrs C and Tesco it was agreed a 
second view was to be issued so that both cards (card1 and 2) could be included in the 
same complaint. 
The investigator partially upheld Mrs Cs complaint on card 1 after a second view was issued 
but didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint on card 2. 
The investigator felt while Tesco acted fairly when it registered a late payment marker on her 
credit file for credit card 1, it could have done more by contacting Mrs C when she made a 
shortfall of a few pounds in late September 2021. Additionally, Tesco could have mentioned 
Mrs C was able to put a notice of correction on her credit file to explain her position. The 
investigator says Mrs C wasnt provided with the full information she needed and asked 
Tesco to increase its compensation offer from £100 to £250.
With regards to card 2 the investigator didnt uphold the complaint and felt Tesco had done 
nothing wrong and had tried to support Mrs C. The investigator also felt, having listened to 
the call recordings, Tesco had correctly advised Mrs C of the payments needed on card 2 
and had issued the correct notices concerning that. The investigator also pointed out Mrs Cs 
statements would have confirmed the correct amounts to be paid. 
The investigator went on to make the point that Tesco had an obligation to correctly record 
fair and accurate information to the credit reference agencies and didnt feel Tesco could be 
held responsible for why Mrs C couldnt obtain improved mortgage interest terms. 
Neither Tesco nor Mrs C agreed with the investigators view, so the matter was passed to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come a different outcome overall to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
The first thing to say here is while two views were issued by the investigator, to simplify 
matters and as agreed with both Tesco and Mrs C, I will deal with both credit card 
complaints in this one decision.
I can see that in mid to late 2021 Mrs C was experiencing some financial issues, in part as a 
result of her husbands tax code changes, and that must have been a frustrating and 
upsetting time for her.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Tesco acted fairly when it marked a missed 
payment marker on Mrs Cs credit file relating to credit card accounts 1&2. For ease of 
reference, at the time of the complaint to this service, credit card 1 had a credit limit of 
£6,050 and credit card 2 had a limit of £3,025.
This service has been provided with comprehensive information and telephone call 
recordings from both parties and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on 
each and every piece of information received. Thats not to say I havent considered 
everything or listened to all the call recordings - I have but its just that I dont need to 
comment on each individual piece of information here, in order to reach a decision on whats 
fair and reasonable.
Mrs C says she wasnt made aware of the impact on her credit file, simply because of small 
underpayments to her credit card accounts and had been misled by Tesco when she spoke 
to them in August 2021. Mrs C says she relied on her Tesco credit card app to check what 
payments were due and it had given her incorrect information, which Tesco accepted. Mrs C 
says as a result Tesco should now remove any adverse credit markers as these have 
impacted her ability to obtain a more preferable fixed interest rate on her mortgage. While I understand the points Mrs C makes, Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I say 
this as having listened to several phone calls and importantly here those made in in early 
and late August 2021, I am satisfied it was made clear by Tesco to Mrs C what payments 
were due and when and what the consequences of missing those payments would be. Here, 
after Mrs C had missed the payment on her credit card accounts for July 2021, she 
telephoned Tesco on 3 August 2021. During that call it was agreed Mrs C would pay 
£153.36  on card 1 and £70.37 on card two no later than 25 August 2021, and this was 
followed up with two letters confirming these arrangements and the consequences of these 
being missed. 
From the credit card statements provided I can see Mrs C paid £154.25 on card 1 and £71 
on card 2 both on the 26 August 2021. Its fair to say these payments were later than 
agreed, albeit during the telephone conversation there was a mixed message given by the 
member of Tescos staff as to how the arrears would be treated on her credit card. Tesco 
accepted that, but what is important is in any event Mrs C was already in arrears on both 
credit cards accounts before she called them in early August 2021 and Tesco at this stage 
didnt mark her credit file with any missed payments.  
What happened next is Mrs C called Tesco again on 31 August to discuss extending the 
temporary arrangement and during that call it was agreed that Mrs C needed to make a 
payment of £168.25 on card 1 and £83.95 on card 2 by 25 September 2021 to avoid her 
credit file reflecting missed /late payments. Again, I can see letters were sent out the same 
day to Mrs C confirming those arrangements. I can see from the credit card statements 
provided that Mrs C paid £160 on card 1 and £73 on card 2 both on 27 September 2021. 
Mrs C says she relied upon her app which showed a different amount to be paid, and 
although I havent seen evidence of this, its difficult to understand  why Mrs C would simply 
rely on that information rather than the agreement she had come to with Tesco in late 
August 2021, or the follow up letters she was sent and the monthly statements that were 
available in the app. While Mrs C says she doesnt recall receiving these letters, from what I 
have seen these were both addressed correctly and so I cant hold Tesco responsible if 
these werent seen or received by Mrs C. 
Tesco have confirmed the app payment information was incorrect but have also made the 
point this only applied to customers that were already in arrears. That said, whats important 
here is Mrs C was made fully aware and had agreed to what payments needed to be paid 
and when, to avoid her credit file being impacted in both a telephone call and in writing  but 
she didnt stick to that arrangement. Not only were the payments short of what was agreed, 
they were late. I cant support the investigators view that Tesco were obliged to have then 
contacted Mrs C when the payment arrangements she had agreed to werent sufficient or 
paid on time  after all having made the arrangement it was Mrs Cs responsibility to ensure 
she kept to that arrangement, especially as she was made aware of the consequences if she 
didnt.  
While the investigator felt Tesco should have informed Mrs C that she could lodge a notice 
of correction to her credit file, I cant say that is something we can insist Tesco must do as 
part of its process or procedures, but that option remains available to Mrs C if she wishes. 
So, with that in mind I cant say it would be fair of me to ask Tesco to increase the 
compensation it has already offered Mrs C of £100. 
While I can see this has been upsetting for Mrs C, I cant say with any certainty that one 
missed payment on her credit file would be the sole reason why she couldnt obtain better 
interest terms or re-mortgage, as several considerations are taken into account by lenders in 
these circumstances. In any event I cant say Tesco have made any mistakes when 
registering the missed payment markers in September 2021, for the reasons I have already given and it has a responsibility to accurately record its customers account conduct to the 
relevant credit reference agencies. 
While Mrs C will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I dont propose Tesco take 
any further action here and its up to Mrs C to accept the original offer of £100 made by 
Tesco for any confusion it may have caused, which I am satisfied is fair here. 
Both Mrs C and Tesco responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs C and Tesco until 27 February 2023 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Tesco had nothing further to add but Mrs C raised a couple of points which I will go 
on to cover here. 
Mrs C says the payments were late due to having an agreement in place with Tesco that if 
she paid into her credit card accounts by the end of the month, it wouldnt affect her credit 
file. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision I have listened to the phone calls Mrs C refers to 
and in these calls at the beginning and end of August 2021, Tesco on both occasions made 
clear these payments needed to be paid by the 25 August 2021 and 25 September 2021 
respectively, not at the end of the month as Mrs C says. 
Additionally, and importantly here Mrs Cs credit file was only marked for the late payments 
in September 2021 and as I highlighted in my provisional decision, not only were the 
payments late, these were not for the amounts agreed or as detailed in the follow up letter 
sent to Mrs C at the time. 
Its also worth mentioning Mrs C had missed payments in July 2021 and so it wouldnt have 
been unreasonable for Tesco to have registered a late/missed payment at that time or for 
the late payments in August 2021, as described earlier. So, with that in mind I cant say 
Tesco acted unfairly when it registered the late payment markers when it did. 
As far as Mrs Cs point regarding her mortgage, Im not disputing the fact she may be on a 
high interest rate variable mortgage, more that I cant be certain the late marker would be the 
sole reason for this. In any event, for the reasons I have already explained Im satisfied 
Tesco were entitled to register these late payment markers in September 2021. 
With that in mind I see no reason to change or add to my original provisional decision and so 
my final decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final l decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman