DRN-2392224
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (trading as Eagle Star) provided him with 
unsuitable advice regarding the transfer of pension savings from an occupational pension 
scheme.
What happened
The pension plan that Mr Q opened in relation to this complaint was with Eagle Star. That 
company is now the responsibility of Zurich, so it is that company that is dealing with this 
complaint. For ease, throughout this decision, I will generally refer to Zurich as the 
responsible business although I obviously accept Mr Qs dealings were with Eagle Star.
Mr Q held pension savings with an occupational pension scheme relating to a previous 
period of employment. His (now ex) wife was employed by Eagle Star. Mr Q says that his 
wife was approached by a colleague at Eagle Star, that I will call Mr S, who she then 
introduced to her husband. Mr Q says that Mr S provided him with advice that recommended 
he should transfer his deferred occupational pension scheme savings into a personal 
pension plan with Zurich. Mr Qs pension savings were transferred to Zurich in early 1988.
Zurich has provided the documentation it holds from the time. That shows that it was Mr Qs 
wife who was recorded as the introducer for the pension plan. And as a result of her waiving 
the commission she was due Zurich says the pension benefits due to Mr Q at retirement 
were increased. It says that it had no advisers working at that time  Mr S did work for the 
company but in a different role  and so it couldnt have provided any advice to Mr Q. It 
didnt therefore agree with his complaint.
Mr Qs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He noted the significant 
time that had passed since the pension plan was started, and the difficulties that created 
with the lack of information that had been retained. But he hadnt seen anything to persuade 
him that Zurich had provided Mr Q with advice about the transfer. Whilst he didnt doubt 
Mr Qs recollections that Mr S had visited him at home, he wasnt able to conclude that the 
discussions that took place amounted to advice. So he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr Q didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr Q and by Zurich. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to 
help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I must note that the events being complained about took place more than 
30 years ago. Whilst I have no doubts that Mr Q has given us his complete and honest 
recollections of what happened I must be mindful that over such a long period of time even 
the most careful of memories can, and do, fade. And given the time that has passed it isnt 
entirely surprising that Zurich might not have as much documentation as it might like about 
what happened  I dont draw any adverse conclusions from any information being missing.
I accept what Zurich  has told us about not having any advisors employed by the firm until 
after Mr Qs transfer had taken place. And Zurich has also said that Mr S appears on a 
number of its other records from around that time where the policy isnt attributed to an 
independent financial advisor. I understand Mr Ss role with Zurich was as a liaison point 
with external advisors so that might not be entirely unsurprising.
Zurichs records from the time show that Mr Qs wife received a commission payment in 
relation to the transfer of his pension savings  although ultimately that took the form of an 
enhancement to Mr Qs retirement benefits. But those records also show Mr S as the 
servicer of the pension plan. I dont know whether that record relates to the situation Ive 
described above, or is in relation to Mr Qs recollection of Mr S visiting him at home to advise 
him on the transfer. And I think it is possible that both might be true.
I think, given his role, Mr S would have been relatively well informed about how pension 
transfers might work  certainly he is likely to have been in a better position to give some 
assistance to Mr Q than his wife who as I understand things, performed an administrative 
role for the company. So I think it entirely plausible that he might have been asked by Mr Qs 
wife, or even volunteered his services, to assist with the transfer arrangements.
But in saying that, I am left some way short of being able to conclude that Mr Q was given a 
formal recommendation on the suitability of the transfer by Mr S acting on behalf of Zurich. 
That is problematic on a number of fronts. As I said earlier, Zurich didnt employ any 
advisors until after the transfer had been completed. And I would expect any formal advice of 
this nature to be documented with analysis of the pros and cons set out for a consumer to 
consider. It also seems reasonable that if Mr S was providing advice to Mr Q he might 
expect to be remunerated for his work  but in fact the only person due any remuneration 
here was actually Mr Qs wife.
I appreciate that my decision will be very disappointing for Mr Q. But, taking everything into 
account, I havent seen enough to allow me to conclude that Zurich, or Mr S on behalf of 
Zurich, provided advice, or a recommendation, to Mr Q on the suitability of the transfer of his 
pension savings from the occupational scheme to a personal pension with the firm. It follows 
that I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman