DRN-3722894
The complaint
Mr W complains that the block Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) put on his account for 
gambling transactions was removed allowing him to gamble. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known by both parties. In summary Mr 
W held a current account with Barclays and used it to gamble on various gambling sites. 
Mr W arranged for a block to be placed on his account to stop him being able to gamble 
online. Mr W says when he contacted Barclays via the online chat feature and asked for the 
restriction to be removed Barclays removed it immediately. There was no 72-hour cooling 
off period as had been advertised by the bank. 
Mr W complained to Barclays. He was unhappy that the gambling restriction was removed 
immediately allowing him to gamble. And so Mr W lost approximately £1,500.  Mr W says he 
felt misled by the bank and the matter left him depressed. 
Barclays accepted there were some flaws in the process and provided feedback internally to 
see if those could be reviewed. It declined to refund the payments and said it wasnt able to 
refuse a customer access to their funds if requested. It also explained that if the request to 
remove the block was made on the app or online banking then it would take up to 72 hours 
for it to be removed. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the response from Barclays and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she thought Barclays acted in 
accordance with its gambling block policy and the compensation offered was reasonable. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators outcome. He said Barclays continued to allow him 
to enable gambling on his account despite being aware of the issues Mr W had. So the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can empathise with Mr Ws position, and its clear from the information 
provided by Mr W that the situation has been upsetting and frustrating for him. 
Its important to recognise the type of gambling block provided by Barclays, and other 
financial institutions, are voluntary in nature, meaning that its up to the account holder to 
implement the gambling block, and also that the account holder retains the option to remove 
the gambling block should they want to do so. 
Mr Ws complaint is not straightforward to decide, and I have to balance a number of 
competing obligations. Barclays is expected to process payments that Mr W authorises it to 
make. But I also had to take account of the wider issues such as the banks regard for the 
interests of its customers and the need to treat them fairly. And there are situations where 
we believe banks, taking into account the relevant rules, codes, and best practice standards, 
shouldnt have taken their customers authorisation instruction at face value  or should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. 
The gambling block appeared to have worked for a time. But was subsequently removed by 
Mr W. Gambling blocks vary from bank to bank, and I havent seen anything which 
suggested Barclays told Mr W it would take any additional steps if he did try to remove the 
block. I dont think, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, that it was inappropriate 
for the bank to allow the gambling block to be removed. 
While these voluntary gambling blocks do provide a degree of support for account holders 
who have a gambling addiction they dont provide any guarantee that the account holder 
wont disable the block in order to continue making transfers to gambling companies.
Barclays explained if you turn the gambling block feature off via the chat function then the 
72-hour period can be bypassed and the feature activated immediately. But if you use the 
mobile app or online banking then it takes up to 72 hours to activate. I dont think this is 
clearly explained to consumers but in the circumstances the reason for the omission is 
reasonable. 
I think its fair to say Barclays took reasonable steps to assist Mr W in accordance with its 
policies. And even if the bank had taken additional steps to prevent some of the payments, 
his compulsion to do so may have meant he would still have found ways to gamble and 
suffered the same losses. So I cant fairly instruct Barclays to refund the payments Mr W had 
made. 
Mr W has commented that gambling blocks like the one he relied on should be quick and 
easy to apply, but some friction and time delays should be in place in order to have them 
removed. Barclays have applied this to its mobile banking and online banking. Recovering 
gambling addicts have repeatedly explained that the desire to place a bet will dissipate over 
time. If they can be prevented in the moment from acting on their impulse it can make a 
fundamental difference. So I agree with Mr W when he says Barclays needs to reconsider 
this aspect of how its block works or in order for it to work effectively. And Im pleased to see 
Barclays have taken that on board and provided feedback internally to see if it can be 
reviewed. 
I do empathise with Mr W personally and I hope he is doing better now. Mr W has, by his 
own testimony, had an extremely challenging time. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed 
with the outcome Ive reached. But based on everything Ive seen I think Barclays have done 
enough to rectify the issue. And I cant say Barclays acted unreasonably since Mr W 
requested the block be removed and Barclays cant reasonably refuse to carry out his 
instructions.  
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 Kiran Clair
Ombudsman