DRN-3489416
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Santander UK Plc has unfairly declined her request to port 
(transfer) her existing mortgage onto another property. To settle the complaint Mrs H would 
like Santander to allow her to port her interest rate product onto a new mortgage and refund 
the early repayment charge (ERC) she had to pay.
What happened
Mrs H had a mortgage with Santander originally taken out in 2008. It was on a part-
repayment, part-interest-only basis, with the majority of the mortgage (£180,000) on interest-
only, with only about £22,000 on capital repayment. 
Since inception, there had been several product switches, the last being in October 2018 
when the mortgage was transferred onto a five-year fixed rate product which was due to 
expire on 2 January 2022. If the mortgage was repaid before that date, an ERC applied. The 
mortgage could, however, be transferred to another property. The product switch offer says 
that this would be subject to lending criteria and an affordability assessment.
From February 2015 onwards the account was in arrears from time to time, with arrears 
being cleared and then accruing again. The last period of arrears began in March 2020, and 
the account remained in arrears until November 2020.
In 2020 Mrs H wanted to move house and transfer part of the mortgage onto another 
property. There is some contradiction in what Mrs H has told us about her reasons for this. 
On the complaint form, Mrs H says that she was forced to sell the property to repay a charge 
in favour of her ex-husband secured on the property following their divorce, which granted 
him a percentage share of the equity in the property. But Mrs H has also told us that the 
purpose of the sale was to release equity to pay off unsecured debts of about £11,000. Out 
of the net proceeds of sale of about £310,000 (after deducting costs of sale and the payment 
to Mrs Hs ex-husband) Mrs H wanted to use £250,000 as the deposit for her new property. 
She found a property to buy, costing £425,000.
Mrs H approached a mortgage broker to arrange the new mortgage for her. A decision in 
principle (DIP) was issued for a mortgage of £175,000, subject to lending criteria. Santander 
says that this was premature, because its intermediary website contained a questionnaire 
that should have been completed by the broker. If the broker had done this, Santander says 
that a DIP would not have been issued because Mrs H would not have met the criteria to 
port her mortgage. That is because one of the questions was whether or not any of the 
borrowers were unemployed. Mrs H was at the time in receipt of Universal Credit.
Nevertheless, the broker submitted an application under Santanders Loyal Mover scheme 
for a mortgage of £175,000 on an interest-only basis over a term of eight years  so an 
extension on the existing term of an additional five years, ending when Mrs H would be 
70 years old. The existing five-year fixed rate product was due to end on 2 January 2022. 
Repayments of interest on £175,000 on the existing product would be approximately £275 
per month.
However, the application contained incorrect information. It stated that Mrs H had been 
retired since December 2015 and that she was in receipt of indefinite benefits. Mrs H was 
not, in fact, retired, but was unemployed due to ill health and in receipt of Universal Credit. 
Santander has explained that its policy is that it will not accept Universal Credit as a source 
of income, because it is not an indefinite benefit and so cant be used to assess long-term 
affordability.
The application said that Mrs H wanted to keep the mortgage as interest-only for 
affordability, and that she had a repayment vehicle for the mortgage. Here I note that 
although there had originally been an endowment policy as the repayment vehicle for the 
interest-only part of mortgage, the policy had been transferred to her former husband several 
years earlier. The application form said that the repayment vehicle would be a sale of the 
property, following which Mrs H would purchase a 2-bedroomed property.
After considering the application under its Loyal Mover Scheme, Santander declined to offer 
Mrs H a mortgage, even after an appeal, when the application was reconsidered by senior 
underwriters. Santander said this was because of the source of income, and that the 
mortgage had been in arrears in the twelve months prior to the application.
Mrs H sold her existing property in March 2021, incurring an ERC.
Mrs H complained, but Santander didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H brought her complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator considered it. She thought the 
complaint should be upheld. The investigator noted that, because Mrs H was changing the 
mortgage term, Santander was allowed to carry out an affordability assessment.
The investigator found that Santander had only declined the application because Mrs Hs 
income didnt meet its lending criteria, and because her mortgage had been in arrears. But 
the investigator thought the arrears were because of a delay in the payment of Universal 
Credit, rather than Mrs H actively missing payments. The investigator also found that Mrs H 
had had to stop working a fair few years ago and had been in receipt of Universal Credit 
ever since.
The investigator didnt think Santander was wrong to decline the mortgage on the basis of 
the application submitted to it by Mrs Hs broker  with an extended term  and that it was 
reasonable for an affordability assessment to have been carried out due to the change in the 
mortgage that was requested. 
But after the application was declined, the investigator thought Santander should have 
contacted Mrs H and advised her about other options, such as porting on a like for like 
basis, over the same remaining term. The investigator said that if Santander had given 
Mrs H advice about this, there would have been no need to conduct an affordability 
assessment under mortgage regulations as it would have been in Mrs Hs best interests for 
Santander to agree to porting the mortgage on a like for like basis.
The investigator thought Santander should refund the ERC Mrs H had paid on redemption of 
her mortgage, together with interest at 8%. She also thought Santander should pay the 
difference in Mrs Hs mortgage and the rent she was now having to pay, and refund her 
storage costs whilst living in rented accommodation. She also asked Santander to pay 
compensation of £500.
Santander didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Santanders made some further points, the main ones which I 
summarise below.Even with a Loyal Mover Same or Less application, assessing affordability is still a 
requirement. 
Past payment history can be considered if the income doesnt meet affordability, but in 
this case there had been arrears within the previous 12 months, adverse credit data and 
a significant reduction in income since the original mortgage in 2007.
It was only when Santander received evidence of income that it first knew Mrs H was in 
receipt of Universal Credit.
Mrs H had her own independent mortgage broker, and so Santander wasnt under any 
obligation to contact Mrs H direct to offer her mortgage advice. Although Mrs H had 
written to Santander in January 2021, at this point she was still being advised by her 
broker. Without a formal application being in place between Mrs H and a Santander 
mortgage adviser, it wasnt possible for Santander to provide any level of advice. 
Providing mortgage advice is a regulated activity, and Mrs H already had her own 
adviser doing this for her.
Santander noted that in her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mrs H was 
claiming that she had been forced to sell the property by her former husband, whereas 
the application as submitted was for a voluntary sale to release equity for the repayment 
of unsecured debt. Santander noted that the terms of the ex-husbands charge on the 
property meant that he could have forced a sale at any time after 2012, yet, knowing this, 
Mrs H entered into an execution-only product switch in 2018 for a fixed rate with an ERC 
 and had since 2012 entered into other fixed-rate products with ERCs.
Provisional decision of 28 April 2022
I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following conclusions.
The crux of this complaint is whether Santander was right to carry out an affordability 
assessment for this mortgage application, or whether, in all the circumstances, it 
should have allowed Mrs H to port her mortgage on a like-for-like basis.
Santanders lending policy is a matter for its own commercial judgement, and I dont 
have the power to substitute my own lending decision for that of the bank. However, 
Id expect the bank to consider requests and applications on their own individual 
merits and to take account of individual circumstances  and to consider making 
exceptions where appropriate, in line with the banks regulatory obligations.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash 
in 2008. This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about 
requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and 
encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to 
their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old 
rules but not under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The 
rules are contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a 
borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional 
borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage 
that is material to affordabilityThere are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out 
an affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is 
applying to vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential 
repairs to the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; 
and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage 
takes place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the 
lender decides to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a 
reason to decline an application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the 
customers best interests. But the lender can take the assessment into account as 
part of its consideration of best interests.
This means there are two routes that an application for an existing borrower can go 
down. If theres no change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to 
affordability, theres no obligation to carry out an affordability assessment at all. And 
if there is a change to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, a 
lender could still decide to allow an application without an affordability assessment if 
doing so would otherwise be in the borrowers best interests.
So first of all Ive thought about whether there was a change to the terms of the 
mortgage contract material to affordability.
Santander has pointed to the increased loan to value  but thats not material to 
affordability, and isnt a change to the terms of the mortgage contract. But it is 
relevant to the wider question of whether the porting application is in Mrs Hs best 
interests, and also relevant to whether  notwithstanding the MMR provisions  its 
reasonable to expect Santander to accept the higher risk that comes with a higher 
LTV. Ill say more about this below.
However, a term extension could be a change to the terms of the mortgage contract 
material to affordability  if the term would be extended into, or further into, Mrs Hs 
retirement.
The fixed rate was due to end on 22 January 2022,when the mortgage would have 
reverted to Standard Variable Rate and the mortgage term was due to end in June 
2023. At that point, Mrs H would be aged 64, below her State Pension Age (66). She 
wanted to extend the term to the age of 70. 
State pension age is not the same as retirement age  theres no obligation to retire 
on becoming eligible for a state pension, or at any other time. Rather, retirement age 
depends on the individual circumstances. Mrs H told us that she intended to carry on 
working until the age of 70, and wouldnt retire until the end of the term. So on the 
face of things, the term extension would not go into her retirement.
However, at the time of her application, Mrs H was not in fact working. She was on 
Universal Credit, and she tells us that she was experiencing long term ill health, and 
had been assessed for the particular form of Universal Credit awarded to people with limited capacity for work. It appears she hasnt worked for some time and based on 
everything Ive seen I think its unlikely that shell return to the workplace.
Mrs H might not consider herself to be retired, and she hasnt yet reached state 
pension age. But she would reach state pension age during the proposed term 
extension. Its also unlikely she will return to work, so I think its reasonable to 
conclude that she is  or will be before the end of the proposed term extension  
retired, even if she wouldnt describe herself that way. And in those circumstances I 
dont think Santander can use the first route in the regulations to consider this 
application.
That means that Santander needed to carry out an affordability assessment  unless 
it was satisfied that the application was otherwise in Mrs Hs best interests. In this 
case, Santander didnt think the new mortgage was in Mrs Hs best interests. The 
bank was concerned about the long-term affordability of the mortgage, given that 
Mrs Hs only source of income was one that didnt meet Santanders lending criteria. 
Santander took into account that Mrs Hs entitlement to benefits would be affected by 
her retention of any of the proceeds of sale in excess of the limit allowed by the 
Department of Work & Pensions (DWP), leaving her in a potentially vulnerable 
position. Santander also considered that available equity to enable Mrs H to be re-
housed if she sold the property at the end of the mortgage term would be eroded if 
she went back onto Universal Credit by the requirement to repay any support for 
mortgage interest benefit (SMI) shed received back to the DWP, which would have a 
charge on the property. I also think it was reasonable for Santander to be concerned 
about the long term position this would leave Mrs H in. If she relied on SMI to repay 
her mortgage, and then had to sell the property to repay the interest-only borrowing 
and also repay the SMI loan, that would reduce her equity and her ability to buy 
somewhere else to live.
So in all the circumstances, Im satisfied Santanders concerns  on the basis of what 
it had been told by the broker  about whether this transaction was in Mrs Hs best 
interests were reasonable and that carrying out an affordability assessment was an 
appropriate thing to do in this case. 
As this was an interest-only mortgage, Santander is also required to consider Mrs Hs 
strategy for repaying the capital at the end of the term or extended term. But the 
MMR rules also apply here  as with affordability, Santander could set aside the 
need for this assessment if the application would otherwise be in her best interests. 
I will mention at this point that Mrs H has now said that, notwithstanding what her 
broker told Santander on the application form, she had no intention of selling the 
property on expiry of the term so she could buy a smaller property. Instead her 
intention was that shed apply for a term extension, or otherwise re-mortgage. Mrs H 
said that, she intended to carry on working until she was 70 (even though, as I 
noted above, by 2020 Mrs H had not, in fact, been in employment for several years, 
since at least 2014). Mrs H has also told us that her ultimate repayment vehicle for 
the mortgage was to be an inheritance. 
None of this information was provided to Santander at the time of the application, but 
I think that even if Santander had been told this, it wouldnt have changed the 
outcome. Thats because Mrs H wasnt working, and so she couldnt carry on 
working until she was 70. In addition, inheritance as a repayment strategy is 
speculative and isnt something Santander would take into consideration.As I say, it could set aside the outcome of a formal assessment of repayment 
strategy if doing so would be in Mrs Hs best interests. But I dont think it would have 
been reasonable, or in Mrs Hs best interests, for it not to think about this at all. It 
wouldnt be in her best interests to grant her a new mortgage that she wouldnt be 
able to repay. And even though this was her current situation too, her application was 
for a longer term and a higher LTV and she would therefore be older, and with less 
equity (particularly if reliant on SMI) than under her current mortgage. So in that 
respect this was not a like for like application and there was a real risk that Mrs H 
would be worse off than with her current mortgage  still with no clear means of 
repaying the capital, but older and with less equity to fall back on. Its reasonable to 
conclude it wouldnt have been in her best interests to put her in that position.
Overall, I dont think Santander acted unreasonably in its consideration of the 
application that had been submitted to it. But I also think it would have been fair for 
Santander to consider alternatives available to Mrs H in the particular circumstances 
of this case. 
Thats because, even if Santander had been asked to consider a like-for-like 
application, with a port of £175,000 and no term extension, the same considerations 
would have applied  in particular whether it would have been in Mrs Hs best 
interests to set aside the repayment strategy requirements. And even without the 
term extension, the LTV would still increase, and it would have been reasonable for 
Santander to conclude that this still wouldnt have been in Mrs Hs best interests. 
These are my reasons for saying this.
First, Mrs H would have lost her entitlement to Universal Credit if shed retained more 
than £16,000 out of the proceeds of sale. On my calculations, Mrs H would have had 
about £45,000, after paying off her debts, so enough for about two years of modest 
expenditure. 
The fixed rate was due to end on 22 January 2022, when the mortgage would have 
reverted to Standard Variable Rate and the mortgage term was due to end in June 
2023. At that point, Mrs H would be aged 64, below State Pension Age (66). There 
was no repayment vehicle other than sale of the property.  (Again I note Mrs H has 
since told us she intended to use a potential inheritance as the repayment vehicle 
which she might, or might not, have received by that date, but its not something 
Santander would accept as a viable repayment strategy  and since its so uncertain, 
not in her best interests to rely on it). Given the increase in the LTV, there would be 
less equity available for Mrs H to re-house herself if shed sold the property when the 
term came to an end. 
There was also no guarantee Santander would allow a term extension in June 2023 
and, given the overall circumstances, I think its unlikely this would have been 
agreed. So Ive looked at what other options would be available. 
A common repayment strategy for buyers aged over 55 who want to stay in their 
homes is to take out an equity release mortgage. However, I think that if thered been 
a like-for-like port of £175,000, because of her age, in June 2023 Mrs H might have 
found it difficult to secure an equity release mortgage for that amount where the LTV 
was over 40%. Generally, the younger the borrower is, the less money an equity 
release lender is prepared to lend, due to the roll-up of interest over a longer period 
of time and the impact of this on the available equity in the property. So Im not sure 
equity release would have been a viable repayment strategy.I also note that a number of lenders offer later life or retirement interest only (RIO) 
mortgages for borrowers who are retired and in receipt of a guaranteed pension. But 
by June 2023 Mrs H would still not have reached State Pension Age, and there is 
nothing in the mortgage application to suggest she has any other type of pension 
provision that would be giving her a guaranteed income in June 2023. 
Consequently, I think that even if Santander had looked at a like-for-like port, given 
that the mortgage would have had to be repaid by June 2023  and repaid from a 
position of a higher loan to value and less equity, and quite possibly with Mrs H 
having reduced or exhausted the surplus funds retained from the sale in the 
meantime. For that reason even a like for like port would still leave her in a worse 
position at the end of the term than her current mortgage. And so Im satisfied its 
likely the bank would have decided it wasnt in Mrs Hs best interests. I dont think 
this would have been unreasonable, taking into account all the circumstances.
Therefore, after giving careful consideration to everything the parties have said, Im 
not persuaded that Santander has done anything wrong. This means that I dont 
intend to uphold the complaint. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Santander had nothing further to add. Mrs H has made some detailed comments. Much of 
what shes said is about her personal circumstances, so I wont repeat the details here. Of 
relevance to the complaint, Mrs H says:
the mortgage was taken out on 30 May 2008, not 2007;
the amount on capital repayment was £21,999;
she has always made payment of the mortgage a priority;
the court papers she received in May 2018 saying the house had to be put on the 
market in order to pay her former husband his equity share came completely out of 
the blue;
Santander seems to be suggesting she was doing something wrong in switching onto 
new deals throughout the mortgage term but she did this at Santanders suggestion;
the arrears in the 12 months prior to the application were due to delays by the DWP;
its incorrect that Santander didnt know she was receiving benefits;
at the beginning of 2015 Santander was well aware that she was on benefits that 
were covering the mortgage, and was also told this in 2020.
the broker was engaged on 23 December 2020 after shed received the DIP;
she was guided by the broker in completing the application form;
she doesnt understand where the information about her being retired has come 
from, as she was working until the end of March 2018 and only received benefits 
from May 2018;
when put on the spot, anxiety led her to say she would extend the mortgage rather 
than sell at the end of the term;
her state pension age is 67, not 66.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again from the start, including the further points Mrs H has made. 
Having done so, I am not persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision.In response to the points made by Mrs H I will reply as follows.
I dont know why Mrs H didnt receive the final response letter dated 4 February 2021. It was 
correctly addressed to her at the address Santander held on file. I am not persuaded 
Santander neglected to post this. In any event, the non-receipt of the final response did not 
prevent Mrs H from bringing her complaint to our service, which she did on 10 February 
2021.
Mrs H is correct  the mortgage was taken out in May 2008 and the capital repayment 
amount was originally £21,999. However, nothing turns on this, and I apologise for this error. 
By the time of the application in December 2021, the capital repayment part was just under 
£10,000.
Mrs H has clarified that she had been working since 2014 but the nature of her occupation 
meant that there were periods when she would have no income. Mrs H has confirmed that 
she last worked in March 2018 and since then has been on Universal Credit.
I note Mrs H received the DIP on 17 December 2020 and I accept her point that she didnt 
engage the broker until a few days later. The DIP states clearly that it is subject to validation 
of Mrs Hs income (amongst other things) which needs to meet Santanders lending criteria. 
Universal Credit is not an acceptable source of income to meet this criteria.
Mrs H says her State Pension Age is 67. I have to disagree. Having input her date of birth 
into the Government website https://www.gov.uk/state-pension-age/y/age this gives a State 
Pension Age of 66. If she was still on Universal Credit, Mrs Hs entitlement to it would cease 
at the date she reached State Pension Age. 
I completely understand that in May 2018 it came as a shock for Mrs H to be ordered by the 
court to sell the property. However, despite knowing she would need to sell the property 
within the foreseeable future, in October 2018 Mrs H committed to a new product which had 
an ERC which ran until 2 January 2022. Neither Santander nor I would criticise Mrs H for 
making sure her monthly repayments were as low as possible. However, particularly with 
this last fixed-rate product, Mrs H knew, or ought to have known, that an ERC was likely to 
be payable, given that a sale of the property in the short term was inevitable.
The information about Mrs H being retired since 2015 was provided by her broker to 
Santander, who stated on the application form that Mrs H had been retired since 
1 December 2015 and was in receipt of Indefinite state benefits (DWP/HMRC).  The 
application form also states, in relation to lending into retirement, that Mrs Hs income will not 
change, and so affordability into retirement will not be affected. 
However, Mrs H wasnt in fact retired, and (as I stated above) her entitlement to Universal 
Credit would end in 2025. The application from the broker was to extend the term to eight 
years, so ending in 2029, when Mrs H would be 70 years old. 
Its concerning that the broker gave Santander information about Mrs Hs employment status 
and income source that was false, as this could have had serious implications for Mrs H  it 
was open to Santander to register a fraud marker against her in this situation. Its difficult to 
know why the broker provided incorrect information, because once Santander looked in 
detail at the application, it immediately became apparent that what it had been told wasnt 
true. This is something Mrs H might want to discuss with her broker.
Ive noted what Mrs H has said about her future career plans and that she hopes to return to 
work at some point in the future. Although Mrs H says she plans on continuing to work, she is not, as I understand it, currently in employment, and hasnt been since 2018. Given this, in 
2020/2021 Santander was entitled to look at her situation as it actually was, and not what 
Mrs H hoped it would be in the future.
But as there was an application to extend the mortgage term to 2029, Santander was, I find, 
justified in assessing affordability of the mortgage. The fact remains that Mrs Hs source of 
income was outside Santanders lending criteria, and so Santander wasnt able to take the 
application any further.
In the circumstances, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in declining the application 
to port with a term extension.
Ive also revisited my findings on whether Santander should have considered a like-for-like 
port of the mortgage, in the best interests of Mrs H. Having done so, Im satisfied Santander, 
had it considered such an application, would have been entitled to decline a like-for-like port. 
My reasons for saying so are the same as in my provisional decision  and which are set out 
above, so I wont repeat them again here. 
But in summary, there was no repayment vehicle other than a sale of the property in January 
2023 when the mortgage term was due to end. A potential inheritance is not an acceptable 
repayment strategy, and selling the property in 2023 would have left Mrs H in a worse 
position due to the increased LTV and the amount that would need to be repaid to 
Santander. 
I dont doubt Mrs H made payment of her mortgage a priority, and I have taken careful note 
of everything shes said. I know Mrs H has been through difficult times that have taken their 
toll on her mental and physical health. However, I have to base my decision on the evidence, 
and not be swayed by emotion.  Mrs H had approximately £310,000 equity available after 
selling her property. Looking on property portals, there are at todays date fourteen 
three-bedroomed properties within a five-mile radius of Mrs Hs former home that are 
£300,000 or under. So I think that in January 2021 Mrs H wouldnt necessarily have needed 
a mortgage in order to purchase another property, albeit a more modest one than shed 
been hoping to buy, but one that would still accommodate her family.
I know Mrs H will be disappointed at my findings, but in all the circumstances, Im unable to 
find Santander has done anything wrong. This means that Im not persuaded Santander 
should be required to reimburse the ERC or pay any other compensation to Mrs H.
In closing, I think Mrs H might find it helpful to speak to an independent financial adviser to 
discuss her options, particularly as she received a substantial sum from the proceeds of 
sale. A broker will be able to search the market for a lender who might be prepared to offer 
Mrs H a mortgage where she is able to put down a large deposit. I sincerely hope Mrs H is 
able to find an alternative lender and that she is able to secure her future in a new property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman