DRN-2352807
The complaint
Miss W complains about the lack of provision of a replacement car by Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. Miss W is 
represented in this matter by her father, Mr W, a named driver on her policy. He thinks that 
further compensation is warranted for the trouble and upset this caused. 
What happened
Miss W was involved in an accident with another driver which wasnt her fault. Advantage 
referred her to a claims management company so that she could be provided with a 
replacement car and avoid paying her policy excess. But there was a delay of six days in a 
car being provided. And this caused Miss W a loss of earnings and stress and upset. 
Advantage offered her £100 compensation for its poor communication. But Miss W didnt 
think this was sufficient.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Advantage 
wasnt responsible for the replacement car provision as this was arranged by a separate 
business. He noted that Miss W had recovered her lost earnings from the other insurer. 
But he thought Advantage hadnt sufficiently managed Miss Ws expectations. He thought it 
should have given Miss W better information about hire arrangements for drivers who were 
under 21. He thought this would have reduced delays and avoided calls. He thought 
Advantage should pay Miss W £100 further compensation for this. 
Advantage replied that it couldnt have predicted that there would be any issues in Miss W 
getting a car. It thought any failings about this were due to the other business.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Ws and Mr Ws frustration with how long it took for a hire car to be 
provided. It took several phone calls and emails, they were misinformed, and they were 
passed between three different businesses to try and resolve the problem. As our 
investigator has already explained, I can only look at the actions of Advantage in their 
complaint as the other companies are separate businesses. 
Advantage said Miss W wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under her policys terms and 
conditions. This was because her car was deemed to be a total loss and a courtesy car was 
only available if repairs were made. I can see that Miss W paid for additional products with 
her policy. This included:
 Substitute vehicle  a hire car for up to 28 days if your vehicle is damaged beyond repair in 
an accident thats your fault or stolen and not recovered
So, as the accident wasnt Miss Ws fault, this extra cover wouldnt apply. And so I think that 
Miss W wasnt entitled to a hire car under her policy. 
Miss W decided to pursue her claim against the other driver outside her policy through a 
claims management company. And I think that in this case Advantage isnt responsible for its 
actions. But Advantage did agree that it had communicated poorly with Miss W and it paid 
her £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused.  
Advantage told Miss W in its response to her complaint that the delay was caused by a 
contractual agreement between Advantage and the hire company that it would provide a 
cover note for drivers under 21. But Advantage later told us that this wasnt correct. It said 
the hire company wouldnt provide a car for a driver under 21, but it would outsource it to 
another company. It said that no cover note was needed or provided, and this shouldnt have 
caused any delay. 
So I think Advantage clearly gave Miss W wrong information in its response to her complaint. 
I think there must be other instances where Advantage refers customers under 21 to the hire 
company. And so I think it was for Advantage to understand the processes and potential 
delays and so reasonably manage Miss Ws expectations when it referred her to the other 
company. 
The result was that Mr W had to contact Advantage by phone and email several times to 
pursue the hire car provision when this could have been avoided. And Advantage wasnt 
able to correctly inform him of the process that would be followed for Miss W to be provided 
with a car. So Miss W then had the trouble and upset of making a complaint. And 
Advantages response to this included incorrect information.
Advantage paid Miss W £100 compensation when she complained about its communication 
about the hire car. But I think this doesnt fully reflect the impact this had on Miss W. She 
was caused avoidable frustration, stress and anxiety for six days. And she was 
unnecessarily passed between the various companies when this could have been avoided if 
shed been better informed by Advantage.
 Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Miss W £100 further 
compensation (£200 in total). I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in 
similar circumstances. So I think Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay Miss W 
£200 in total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman