DRN-3573298
The complaint
Mr S, a sole trader, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) placed his business account 
under review and blocked it. Mr S says this caused him to default on payments to other 
companies, and his business to fold. 
What happened
HSBC applied a block on Mr S account in January 2020 after initiating a Safeguard review. 
Shortly after, HSBCs Safeguard department sent a letter to Mr S asking him to confirm his 
trading address. 
HSBC say it didnt get any response. Mr S says he did try and contact HSBC in April 2020 
but couldnt get through on the phone. In July 2020, HSBCs Safeguard team wrote to Mr S 
again asking for him to contact it as it required details about the business.
In early August 2020, Mr S complained to HSBC about the Direct Debits on the account not 
being permitted since the account was under review and blocked. In response, HSBC said 
Direct Debits are not permitted when an account is inhibited. HSBC say it still had not 
received the form it sent to Mr S in January 2020 relating to its Safeguard review.
A little while later, Mr S sent HSBC the form.   
In late September 2020, HSBC sent a letter to Mr S saying the Safeguard review was now 
complete. Mr S complained again to HSBC about the affect the failed Direct Debits had had 
on him, the account being in overdraft, and one of the companys it had defaulted with 
refusing to carry out business with him. Mr S says this prevented him from carrying out his 
business online - causing the business to fold. 
A few days later, Mr S applied for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with HSBC  a measure 
implemented by the Government to support business during the pandemic. 
In November 2020, HSBC carried out a dormancy review on Mr S account. But this was 
lifted a few days later. Around this time, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. To put 
things right, Mr S says HSBC should pay over £800,000 with 8% interest for lost revenue 
and for rent paid on his business offices.  
In December 2020, HSBC sent another Safeguard review letter to Mr S asking for him to 
make contact. Less than a week later, HSBC wrote to Mr S explaining it was closing his 
account with immediate effect  and in separate correspondence it said the BBL was 
declined. 
In January 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr S saying it needed to get in touch about its Safeguard 
review. HSBC also sent letters to Mr S about having to pay the remaining overdraft and what 
it could do if he was facing financial difficulty. 
HSBC sent further correspondence in late January 2021 asking Mr S to contact it in relation 
to the Safeguard review. The Safeguard team got in touch again with Mr S in February 2021, 
saying it would close the account if it didnt hear from S. 
Mr S' account was closed by HSBC in May 2021. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr S complaint. In summary, they found: 
- As a regulated financial firm, HSBC has legal obligations it must follow. This means it 
may need to carry out reviews of its customers accounts 
- Mr S didnt reply to HSBCs request for information when the account was placed 
under review and blocked. Theres nothing to show Mr S replied, nor does he dispute 
to receiving the letter
- Mr S says he was unable to contact HSBC over the phone. But that was in 
August 2020, several months after the block had been applied, when he sent a 
handwritten letter to HSBC
- There are other methods of communication to the phone, so Mr S could have 
attempted to contract HSBC in other ways. So HSBCs application of the block 
between January 2020 and September 2020 wasnt unfair. HSBC required 
information to satisfy its obligations, and this wasnt provided by Mr S
- HSBC decided to close Mr S account with immediate effect after the BBL was 
declined. Given the terms of the account, and HSBCs reasons, it acted fairly and 
didnt do anything wrong when deciding to close the account in the way it did
- HSBC hasnt explained why its Safeguard team later sent letters to Mr S about 
getting in touch about an account review given it had already said it was closing the 
account. This would have been confusing for Mr S. So HSBC should pay Mr S £150 
for any trouble and upset this caused
HSBC accepted what our Investigator said. Mr S remains unhappy. Some of the key points 
he makes in response are: 
- He did try and contact HSBC around April 2020 to fill out the paperwork, but it was 
ignored due to staff shortages caused by the lockdown. HSBC hasnt given all the 
relevant information to this service
- Mr S doesnt have any other paperwork to show he sent the information HSBCs 
Safeguard review team requested
- There were exceptional and sensitive reasons, which Mr S has shared with this 
service, to explain why he had not responded to HSBCs review for the first few 
months. This reason prevented him from responding
Our Investigator said, after consideration, these points did not change their view on Mr S 
complaint. As Mr S remains unhappy, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to part uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts
Given the obligations HSBC must meet, Im satisfied it did nothing wrong when deciding to 
review  and then block Mr S account whilst carrying this out.  
What I must now ask myself is whether HSBCs review and block were delayed due to any 
error or fault on its part. Mr S has more recently told us why he wasnt able to get in touch 
with HSBC any sooner than he did. Im satisfied, Mr S was likely prevented in the way he 
says  hes given some information to evidence this. Having said that, Mr S information 
doesnt show how long he was prevented nor any specific dates. But, Ill accept, at face 
value, the reason given would have substantially impaired his ability to get in touch sooner. 
But this doesnt mean HSBC has caused avoidable delay. HSBC required this information in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations. So Mr S inability to provide it sooner is 
unfortunate, but it doesnt mean HSBC did anything wrong by asking for it and blocking the 
account until it was satisfied the review was complete. 
This brings me onto the Direct Debits not being made and the impact Mr S says this has 
had. Having given this careful thought, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably 
when stopping any payments in this way. It needed information to meet its legal and 
regulatory obligations, and until it had done this it decided to stop any account activity. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which HSBC and Mr S had to comply with, say it 
could close the account by giving at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances it 
can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by HSBC, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way it has done following its decision to decline the BBL. As I said above, 
HSBC had written to Mr S to explain its actions. I am aware of no obligation why either 
HSBC or I should disclose the reasons for this. 
Mr S says this matter has caused him financial loss. But having looked at whats happened 
in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might tell HSBC to compensate him for 
any financial loss given I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it 
blocked and later closed Mr S account. This includes its decision not to pay any standing 
Direct Debit payments. 
I do however think HSBC created confusion through likely errors on its part which would 
have caused Mr S some trouble and upset. I say that because, firstly it told Mr S there was 
dormancy review on his account shortly after the review was completed. Secondly, HSBC 
told Mr S it was closing his account immediately following the declination of the BBL, only for 
its Safeguard team to say it had started another review. This is grossly inconsistent. HSBC 
says its Safeguard team operates independently  but that doesnt mean it shouldnt be 
aware the account is being closed. Ultimately, HSBC is a single entity and thats how Mr S 
would have perceived it with regard to this matter. 
This would have likely caused Mr S some trouble and upset. Because of that HSBC should 
pay him £150 compensation. My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I now direct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr S £150 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman