DRN-3927368
The complaint
Mr W complains that West Bay Insurance Plc have delayed in undertaking the repairs to his 
motorhome after an accident. He also complains that the repairs would have been done 
quicker if they had been done at a different garage that he had chosen. 
What happened
Mr W held a motorhome insurance policy with West Bay. 
In August he had an accident while travelling in Scotland. Mr W says a local garage in 
Scotland quoted him £2500 for the repairs, but West Bay wanted to use their approved 
repairer, and so they recovered the motorhome to a garage near Mr Ws home instead. 
Once the motorhome was at the garage it took until the end of November for the repairs to 
be started and they still havent been completed, so Mr W has been without use of his 
motorhome since then. 
 
Mr W complained to West Bay about the delay and they issued a response on 28 November 
2022 apologising for the delay, which was due to a capacity issue at the garage. They gave 
Mr W £75 for the delays and poor communication. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this and so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint and he thought that West Bay should 
pay an additional £100 for the inconvenience caused by the delay. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether the offer of compensation made by West Bay is reasonable in 
terms of the delay, and whether they acted reasonably in using their approved repairer if it 
could have been done quicker elsewhere.   
Having considered all the evidence, I am upholding this complaint, and I will explain why. 
I can see from the claim notes that following the accident, Mr Ws motorhome was recovered 
to a facility in Scotland, and West Bay then arranged for it to be moved to the approved 
repairer near Mr Ws home. Due to delays getting it moved, the vehicle wasnt with the 
approved repairer until 23 August 2022, and Mr W complained about this. 
However, the claim wasnt validated until 2 September due to a query about Mr Ws declared 
occupation, and so I dont think the delay in moving the vehicle affected the overall delay as 
nothing could have been done until the claim was validated. 
There then seems to be some delay in getting the engineers report authorised, and an issue 
was identified with the clutch which needed to be resolved before the bodywork could be 
repaired. This was because if the clutch wasnt repairable, the vehicle may have been 
deemed a total loss so they needed to ensure the mechanical repairs were possible first.
The clutch wasnt obtained and fitted until 25 November, which Im satisfied was a 
considerable delay, and I cant see that the communication to Mr W was as good as it could 
have been. 
Once the clutch was fitted, the approved repairer was then able to proceed with the 
bodywork repairs, but a further issue with another part has occurred since. 
Although I understand that there was difficulty in obtaining parts, and in having the capacity 
to undertake the repairs, I do think that the service provided fell below the level that Mr W 
was entitled to expect, and I agree with the investigator that the level of compensation 
offered didnt reflect the inconvenience caused. I agree with the investigator that £175 is a 
more accurate reflection of the delay caused between 2 September and 28 November, and 
of West Bays failure to communicate with Mr W about this. 
I understand that further issues have occurred since 28 November, but unfortunately Im not 
able to consider the impact of any delays or issues after that date, and Mr W would need to 
raise a new complaint with West Bay about that.   
I can see that Mr W felt the repairs would have been completed quicker at the garage in 
Scotland. However, the main delay was caused by obtaining and fitting a mechanical part  - 
the clutch  rather than the bodywork, and I havent seen any evidence that the repairer in 
Scotland would have been able to obtain and fit that part any quicker, so I cant agree with 
Mr W about this issue. 
Putting things right
I think that to put things right, West Bay should pay Mr W a further £100, bringing his 
compensation to £175.  
 
My final decision
My decision is that Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about West Bay Insurance Plc and  
directing them to put things right as above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman