DRN-2137513
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans 
(Satsuma), didnt treat her fairly. Mrs C said Satsuma had not acted within the regulators 
guidelines. It should have sent her letters updating her of her account arrears and it passed 
on sensitive information to a third party. Mrs C is also unhappy about the customer service 
she received and says she was misinformed when she contacted the business. Mrs C is 
dissatisfied with the offer Satsuma has made.
What happened
Mrs C complained to Satsuma. She had previously taken two short-term loans with 
Satsuma, one of which was still outstanding as Mrs C had struggled with the repayments 
because her circumstances had changed.
In response to her complaint, Satsuma agreed to write off the interest amounting to £129.26 
on her outstanding loan. It also explained the outstanding loan had been passed to a debt 
collection agency but was passed back to Satsuma and it advised that in order for it to give 
appropriate support to its customers, some sensitive information has to be noted. 
It also agreed that it hadnt sent Mrs C the regulatory letters it was required to do in order to 
keep Mrs C updated about her account. It upheld that element of her complaint. 
It was unable to identify any poor customer service but recognised that Mrs C would not 
have raised it as an issue unless she was concerned. So, it apologised for any distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs C. It offered a £30.00 reduction of the balance of her account.
As well as writing off the interest it also said it would write of the remaining outstanding 
capital due of £254.89 so that Mrs Cs balance was reduced to zero. It also offered to 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file about the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought that Satsuma had recognised the 
errors that had occurred and had both apologised and offered compensation in the form of 
writing off the outstanding balance. They thought Satsuma had acted fairly and wouldnt ask 
it to do anything more. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment Mrs C said her mental health had been severely 
affected by the actions of Satsuma and that the resolution offered wasnt enough. She had 
been caused a lot of stress and anxiety for the delays caused by Satsuma not providing this 
service with information promptly and wanted to be compensated further because of this. 
Mrs C wanted the complaint to be looked at again by an ombudsman, so it has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has said she is not satisfied with the offer made by Satsuma and wants further 
compensation because of the stress and anxiety she has been caused. So, Ive reviewed 
what Satsuma has already offered and whether I think that is fair under the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Satsuma has recognised that it did not send the regulatory letters it was required to do to 
keep Mrs C updated with the arrears on her account. Because of this it upheld this part of  
Mrs Cs complaint. 
It explained the necessity of passing on some sensitive customer information in order to 
manage a customers account appropriately and I dont think this is unreasonable.
Satsuma also apologised for any poor customer service Mrs C may have received for which 
it offered a reduction in her outstanding balance of £30 for any distress and inconvenience it 
had caused. I think this offer is fair.
On top of this Satsuma has offered to write off both the interest and the outstanding capital 
on Mrs Cs loan. It has also offered to remove any negative information about the lending 
from her credit file.
I am sorry to hear that Mrs C has suffered with anxiety and her mental health has been 
affected. But in any relationship between a consumer and a financial business errors and 
dissatisfaction can and do arise. And when that happens, we would expect the business to 
treat the consumer fairly to resolve the complaint.
And while I appreciate responses from Satsuma were sometimes delayed, it has complied 
with all of our requests for information. And from that information we have everything 
necessary in order to assess Mrs Cs complaint. 
After reviewing the errors that occurred on Mrs Cs account and Satsumas recognition of 
those errors, I think Satsuma has done enough and its offer to Mrs C is fair. It has 
apologised where it has identified failings and has also reduced the balance on Mrs Cs 
account to zero. She owes nothing more to Satsuma. And Ive also borne in mind that Mrs C 
has had use of the money she borrowed and will not have to repay it. Mrs Cs credit file 
wont show any negative information about the outstanding loan. So, I hope for Mrs C that 
she can now draw a line under her relationship with Satsuma. 
I think what Satsuma has offered as compensation and the apologies made is fair and I 
wont be asking it to do anything more. The offer made by Satsuma is still open to Mrs C and 
she needs to decide if she wants to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Satsumas offer of redress is fair. I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman