DRN-2348680
The complaint
Mr S complained about the interest charged on his credit card with Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax. He said that over the years, hed paid more in interest than the balance of 
the account.
Mr S wants Halifax to:
- repay him all the interest charged since 2009;
- write off the outstanding balance; and 
- close the account.
What happened
Mr S had a Halifax credit card. In 2009 he was notified of an increase in the interest rate. Mr 
S didnt want the higher rate, so he closed the account in February 2010. There was an 
outstanding balance of around £11,000, on which interest continued to be charged. Mr S 
paid around the minimum payment each month.
In 2018, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, introduced new rules about 
persistent debt. Persistent debt is when a consumer has paid more in interest, fees and 
charges than theyve repaid towards the capital they owe, over the previous 18 months. The 
reason the FCA introduced the new rules was that it had found many consumers unwilling or 
unable to repay debt within a reasonable period of time. So it set rules to get lenders to take 
an escalating set of steps to encourage customers to repay debt more quickly, and avoid 
getting into persistent debt in the first place.
So, when the new rules came into effect, credit card lenders wrote to consumers. The letters 
said told the consumer theyd paid more in interest, charges and fees in the past 18 months 
than theyd paid off. They explained that increasing payments would reduce the cost of 
borrowing, and mean the balance would be paid off faster. Customers were encouraged to 
get in touch to talk about their financial circumstances, and whether they could increase 
payments without an adverse effect on their finances. There was a warning about being in 
debt for longer, and information on free debt counselling services.
Theres a disagreement about whether Halifax sent persistent debt letters to Mr S. Halifax 
said it did. Mr S said he was not aware of persistent debt communication and had no 
record of most of the correspondence Halifax said it had sent.
In April 2020, Mr S complained to Halifax. He said Halifax should have offered a low or zero 
rate of interest, and hadnt suggested a way of repaying the balance. He said Halifax was 
obliged to act reasonably, and he believed that continuing to charge interest on the 
outstanding balance without communicating alternatives breached this obligation. Mr S 
asked Halifax to pay back all interest it had charged in the last ten years, reduce the balance 
to zero and close the account.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that it wouldnt contact a customer unless they 
made Halifax aware that they were struggling with their finances. As Mr S hadnt contacted 
Halifax, it had continued to operate his account as normal. So it refused to refund interest. 
But Halifax applied a two month interest waiver, to allow Mr S to explore options, and it 
provided contact details for Mr S to get in touch to discuss his finances.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said it wasnt fair that the balance 
was still about the same as it had been in 2009, and hed paid more in interest than the 
£11,000 balance. He said Halifax hadnt acted fairly or reasonably. He wanted Halifax to 
repay all interest hed paid since the card had been closed, and the account balance 
reduced to zero and closed.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She spoke to Mr S and asked whether his 
financial situation had changed since he opened the account. Mr S said that was private 
information which this service didnt need to know. The investigator looked at copies of Mr 
Ss statements, showing that hed been paying the minimum payments each month for some 
time. The statements from March 2020 quoted recommended payments Mr S would need to 
make to clear his balance within 48 months.. And she accepted that Halifax had sent letters 
about only making the minimum payments, from April 2016 to October 2017, which were 
before the new FCA rules came in. And after the new rules came in, Halifax had written in 
April 2018, October 2018, April 2019, and October 2019, about Mr S having made between 
30 and 48 consecutive minimum payments.
Halifax had also offered contact details to get in touch if payments were difficult, and 
information about free debt counselling services.  The investigator said that Halifax had 
followed the FCA guidelines about persistent debt.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he wasnt aware of persistent debt communication, and there was 
little point in Halifax simply suggesting higher payments would reduce the balance more 
quickly. He said every company produces monthly statements, and for that to be part of 
Halifaxs defence was laughable. He said Halifax should have contacted him many years 
earlier to offer low interest, acceptable payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the FCA rules regarding persistent debt, and the actions and letters sent by 
Halifax. I recognise that Mr S has said he wasnt aware of persistent debt communication, 
and had no record of most of Halifaxs correspondence. But all thats required is that 
correspondence is sent, and from the banks records I accept that Halifax did send the 
required persistent debt letters to Mr S. Ive looked at what was included, and I find that 
Halifax met the requirements.
Lenders are not required, as Mr S believes, actively to contact customers to offer low 
interest and acceptable payment plans. Lenders are required to act fairly when a customer 
reports financial difficulties. But Mr S didnt report any financial difficulties to Halifax between 
2010 and his complaint in April 2020. And he didnt contact Halifaxs collections team, to 
provide evidence of financial difficulties, after the banks final response letter provided him 
with contact details. I recognise that Mr S didnt want to provide this service with his financial 
information, and of course hes entitled to keep that private. But without evidence of financial 
difficulties, and completing income and expenditure information, there was no obligation on 
Halifax to provide him with any special help.
Mr S believes that the fact that he still owes Halifax about the same as he did in 2010, 
means that Halifax should repay him all the interest and write off his debt. But there is nothing in the rules that requires this. Mr S was paying the minimum payment and didnt 
report any financial difficulties or problems making the payments. And Ive found that Halifax 
met the requirements of the persistent debt rules. So I dont require Halifax to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman