DRN-2902976
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc has told him that his title deeds comprise 
an electronic record. Mr R wants Barclays to provide him with his actual paper title deeds or 
to compensate him for these having been destroyed by the bank.
What happened
Mr R had a mortgage with Barclays, taken out in December 2016 and which was repaid in 
December 2020. Mr R was sent a letter by Barclays informing him that its charge had been 
removed at the Land Registry and advised him to contact the Land Registry for a copy of the 
Title Information Document (TID). Barclays confirmed that it only held a copy of the TID and 
no actual physical deeds.
Mr R complained to Barclays, but the bank explained that it hadnt made an error, as it had 
never held the title deeds.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr R complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
He said he was expecting to receive the title deeds when the mortgage came to an end. He 
believed Barclays destroyed his title deeds. Mr R also says that Russian or Chinese state-
sponsored agents can easily hack into UK systems and delete information. If this was to 
happen, Mr R believes thered be no proof of his ownership of the property  which would be 
prevented if he had the title deeds. Mr R says Barclays should have warned him it was 
intending to destroy his deeds, which would have given him the opportunity to ask the bank 
to send them to him.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. 
She was satisfied Barclays wasnt required to hold the title deeds and that it hadnt received 
them when Mr R re-mortgaged in 2016.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said his solicitor had told him that Barclays was 
holding the deeds on trust for him and that Barclays had no right to destroy them. Mr R said 
his main fear is that the Land Registry will be hacked, as he is aware that state-sponsored 
hackers in Russia, North Korea and China attacked the US Department of Defense and 
monitored messages for nine months before being found out.
Mr R said it is not inconceivable that UK government bodies (including the Land Registry) 
will be hacked for political or ransom reasons, with failure to pay resulting in the destruction 
of databases. Mr R therefore believed that proof of ownership of his house might be 
removed through these potential actions.
Mr R said Barclays destroyed the deeds after the mortgage was paid off. His solicitor has 
confirmed that he wouldnt have been able to sell the house without reference to Barclays as 
the buyers solicitors would have carried out a search and discovered the mortgage. There 
was therefore no risk to Barclays in sending him the deeds.
Mr R said the investigators findings were appalling and thinks that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service condones theft. He said there is no proof of ownership without him 
having to pay money to a third party (the Land Registry).
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr R feels very aggrieved at what he claims is Barclays destruction of his title 
deeds. But I think Mr R has misunderstood the position in respect of modern conveyancing 
processes.
First, I will clarify what is meant by deeds. To borrowers, this usually means all the old 
historic pre-registration deeds and documents, conveyances, deeds of transfer, searches, 
etc. showing the history of the property ownership to date.
Prior to 13 October 2003, when a mortgage was taken out over registered land the Land 
Certificate was handed over to the lender who would apply to register the mortgage against 
the title of the property. The Land Registry used to prepare a Charge Certificate and send it 
to the lender. The Charge Certificate was proof that the lender had a mortgage over the 
property and it contained all the information about anything affecting the land, such as 
restrictions, covenants, easements, etc., with a plan annexed showing the boundaries. 
Usually the mortgage deed was attached to the Charge Certificate.
To a mortgage lender, on registered land (and before the register was entirely electronic) 
deeds used to mean the Charge Certificate and the Mortgage Deed. From the early 1980s 
onwards mortgage lenders would tell solicitors not to send any of the preregistration 
documents, as they didnt need them as evidence of title to the property. All the lender 
required was the Charge Certificate and Mortgage Deed. 
But from 13 October 2003, after the implementation of the Land Registration Act 2002, the 
Land Registry switched to electronic records as proof of title, and lenders no longer required 
any paper documents for new loans. All existing certificates lost their legal status from that 
date and no further certificates were issued by the Land Registry after 13 October 2003. So 
from that date onwards, if the Land Registry received a paper document, it would be 
destroyed after the electronic record was created. 
Mr R has told us that he purchased his property in 1985 with a mortgage from Woolwich 
(which later became part of Barclays). Given this, in my experience, I think its more likely 
than not that all Woolwich would have received after the purchase completed was the 
Charge Certificate and the Mortgage Deed, as that was all that was needed. Any other 
documents would probably have been retained by the solicitors who acted for Mr R on his 
purchase, and kept in his client file. Generally, solicitors retain client files for a maximum of 
12 years, after which they are destroyed. The old documents, searches and forms have no 
intrinsic value and are not proof of title, so there is no prejudice to the property owner if these 
are destroyed, although I do appreciate Mr R may disagree.
I can see Mr Rs Woolwich mortgage came to an end in 2016, and Mr R re-mortgaged to 
Barclays. By that time, the register was electronic  and had been since 2003  so there 
were no longer any paper Charge Certificates. To be clear, there was no need or 
requirement for Barclays to hold paper documents. The solicitors who acted on the re-mortgage provided confirmation to Barclays of the TID at 
the Land Registry, and that was all the bank needed. But even if there had been an old 
paper Charge Certificate which still existed in 2016 dating from when Mr R took out the 
original Woolwich mortgage in 1985, this wasnt proof of ownership of the property because 
it had, as I explained above, lost any legal status in 2003. 
Im satisfied Barclays wasnt under any obligation to inform Mr R his Charge Certificate had 
been destroyed, because the evidence is persuasive that when Mr Rs mortgage completed 
in 2016, Barclays never held this, only confirmation of the TID, which was the only proof of 
title in existence. So there was nothing for Barclays to destroy, or to send to Mr R.
I dont doubt Mr Rs strength of feeling, I dont think Barclays is at fault. I can see how 
concerned Mr R is that foreign hackers will delete his entry at the Land Registry. Mr R might 
want to speak to his MP if he has concerns that the Land Registry computer system is 
vulnerable to foreign attack. Thats not something I can comment on, as its not covered by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for. But after taking careful note of 
everything he and Barclays have said, I dont think the bank has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman