DRN-3227422
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help when he made payments as 
the result of investment scams.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Between 2015 and 2019 Mr T made 
numerous payments to what he says were fraudulent investment / trading firms. The 
payments totalled around £12,000 and were mainly made using his Santander Visa debit 
card (although there was also a bank transfer). 
Santanders systems show that Mr T raised a chargeback claim with them in June 2016 for 
around £4,000. But due to the passage of time they no longer have any details. They said as 
nothing was credited to Mr Ts account, the claim must have been unsuccessful. 
In 2020 Mr T says as a result of publicity around fraud and scams he asked Santander to 
help him recover his money. Santander asked Mr T for some further information. Mr T says 
he collated this and handed it in at a local branch. Santander say they didnt receive any 
further information and so took no further action. 
When Mr T complained, Santander said they had no record of any branch contact with him. 
But they gave him the benefit of any doubt and paid him £100 compensation. The complaint 
was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. As he disagrees, Mr T has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr T, so Ill explain why. 
Prevention
As Mr T has pointed out, banks have longstanding obligations to be alert to fraud and scams 
and to act in their customers best interests. Ive looked at all the merchants Mr T paid  
which he says were all operating scams. Some of those merchants were regulated by the 
Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySec) at the time he made his payments. It 
would be unusual for a scam company to comply with all the requirements of regulation. And 
whilst I can accept that there may have been sharp sales and marketing practices involved 
this wouldnt necessarily meet the high bar to be considered fraudulent. Where there is no 
scam to protect against, the banks obligation to intervene isnt triggered. Santander has no 
obligation to protect Mr T against bad bargains nor to give investment advice. 
That being said, Im satisfied at least some of the merchants Mr T paid were, on balance, 
operating fraudulently. And even if that were the case for all the merchants, it wouldnt 
change my mind as to the outcome of the complaint.
One of the payments Mr T made was to a merchant Ill refer to as R. This particular 
payment was for £250 on 31 August 2015. The International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) had issued a warning about this merchant on their website in 2014. 
This warning said that R were offering services in territories where they werent regulated 
and authorised to do so. I think its reasonable to expect a large international bank like 
Santander to be aware of this and to identify the increased risk of their customers paying 
such merchants. I think Santander ought to have spoken to Mr T prior to processing that 
payment. But even if theyd done so, Im not persuaded in this case that Mr T would have 
done anything differently. Mr T continued to make payments to a variety of similar merchants 
following losing money in 2016 at which point he was well aware of the risks involved. The 
payment was also for a comparably modest amount (£250). So I dont think any intervention 
would have made a difference. 
Mr T made over 20 payments in total. Most of these were for a few hundred pounds and the 
largest single payment was for just over £3,300. Ive looked at Mr Ts bank statements and I 
dont think payments of this value would have stood out to Santander as sufficiently unusual 
or suspicious to have warranted them intervening. There is obviously a balance to be struck 
between stopping and checking payments and allowing customers free access to their 
funds. But it isnt unusual for people to occasionally instruct payments that are larger than 
their typical monthly spending. And in the circumstances of this case, I dont think Santander 
ought to have done more. 
Recovery
The only option that could be pursued in relation to the debit card payments is the 
chargeback scheme. Santander havent been able to evidence specifically what happened 
when Mr T requested a chargeback in 2016. But Mr Ts own evidence says that it wasnt 
found in his favour and he lost heart in relation to the process. There isnt sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that Santander ought to have done more in relation to the 2016 
chargeback request. 
Santander are bound by the card scheme operators rules (in this case Visa). Visa require 
that any chargeback is made within no more than 540 days from the date of each 
transaction. Mr T contacted Santander about this again on 29 April 2020. 540 days back 
from this date takes us to November 2018. The majority of Mr Ts payments took place 
before then and so I think Santanders decision to not raise a chargeback in relation to all 
those transactions was fair and reasonable. I wouldnt expect them to raise a chargeback 
where it has no realistic prospect of succeeding. 
This only leaves a total of four payments that had potentially been raised in time. One of 
these was to a merchant Ill refer to as S and the others were to another merchant L. A 
chargeback can only be made against the merchant that receives a payment. Here, L are a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. So its most likely they would have been able to 
evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is converting Mr Ts money into 
cryptocurrency and sending it to the wallet address specified. As such, any claim against L 
was destined to fail.
Any chargeback in relation to any sort of investment has very specific evidential 
requirements under the Visa scheme. So where S are concerned, Mr T would have needed 
to have provided dated evidence of a request to make a withdrawal, along with evidence of an available balance at that time. Mr T hasnt provided such evidence and it isnt something 
that could be obtained retrospectively. As such, I likewise dont think there was any prospect 
of a successful chargeback against S. 
For completeness one of Mr Ts payments to L was made via bank transfer rather than a 
debit card payment (and so the chargeback scheme wouldnt have applied). But given L 
would have processed that payment in the way Ive described above, I dont think it would 
have been recoverable by Santander. The funds would most likely already have been 
converted and sent on long before Mr T contacted Santander. 
I think the £100 compensation Santander have already paid is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Im not persuaded any of Mr Ts chargebacks would have succeeded for the 
reasons Ive explained above. So even if Santander did mislay documents he took into 
branch to support his chargebacks (as hes alleged), this wouldnt have impacted on the 
recovery of any funds and I think the compensation was fair for any distress and 
inconvenience Santander caused him. 
Summary
I accept that Mr T has been the victim of a scam in relation to some of the payments he 
made. But that alone doesnt entitle him to a refund from Santander. And as I dont think 
Santander caused or contributed to his loss, or hindered its recovery, I cant fairly tell them 
they need to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman