DRN-3796335
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his accounts and provided conflicting 
information about this to him. He also complains Lloyds didnt provide information and help 
he requested.
What happened
Mr G held several accounts with Lloyds, including a current account and a credit card 
account  along with a mortgage, investments and insurance products. In October 2020 they 
carried out a review, then wrote to him to say they would be unable to maintain a banking 
relationship with him, and his accounts would be closed in 65 days.
Mr G phoned Lloyds to discuss the letter and was told that only the banking services would 
be closed. He was told to go into branch if he wished to raise an appeal. He says he was 
told by the branch manager it would only be the banking services that were closed, rather 
than any mortgage or insurance products. He asked for an appeal to be raised, and for a 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) for the data Lloyds held on him.
After several weeks Mr G hadnt heard anything, so he visited the branch again and found 
no SAR or appeal had been logged. The branch manager called him back but didnt go 
through any data security before discussing the issue.
Lloyds later issued a letter to Mr G to let him know his credit card account would be closed. 
Wanting clarity Mr G rang Lloyds, but the information given was unclear. Mr G raised a 
complaint with Lloyds. The bank agreed they hadnt delivered the service Mr G could expect, 
in not having his appeal or DSAR raised by the branch. They confirmed an appeal had been 
raised, but it wasnt successful. But they offered him £512 compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. He said the closure of his accounts had been 
particularly inconvenient as hed lost his job around this time and had to arrange new 
accounts.
Our investigator looked into things, but thought the compensation offered was fair. They said 
Lloyds should have been clearer with Mr G about what accounts were closing, and when. 
But Mr G would always have had to move his accounts as Lloyds had a right to close the 
accounts. They couldnt see any specific financial losses to Mr G, but accepted Lloyds 
failings would have led to Mr G suffering considerable distress. They felt the compensation 
Lloyds had offered was appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr G disagreed this was sufficient compensation and sent in some further information for our 
service to consider. There were also new complaint points about data protection issues that 
were passed to Lloyds as a separate complaint. But the investigator didnt change their mind 
on what they felt was fair compensation. Because no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, this decision only covers the complaint points raised by Mr G which Lloyds 
responded to in their final response from December 2020  although I am also aware of his 
later complaint points that are subject to a separate complaint with our service. 
Firstly, its right to say that Lloyds have a right to choose who they provide accounts to. The 
terms of Mr Gs accounts  both the bank accounts and credit card accounts  outline that 
they can close them for any reason so long as 65 days written notice is given. This is in line 
with the relevant regulations on payment accounts. This is to give consumers enough time to 
arrange banking elsewhere, and Im glad Mr G was able to do so. I can also see from the 
statements Mr G was able to withdraw his money before the accounts were closed.
Lloyds dont have to provide their reasons for closing an account and havent done so here. 
But Im also satisfied that the decision to close Mr Gs accounts wasnt unreasonable, or 
irrational. I can see they did eventually consider his appeal but didnt change their minds. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied Lloyds exercised their legitimate commercial judgement in closing 
Mr Gs accounts, and I dont think they were unreasonable in doing so.
Ive no doubt it would be quite a surprise to Mr G to find out Lloyds were closing his accounts 
 and I can see it would be inconvenient to him to have to arrange new bank accounts. But 
as this inconvenience flows from the reasonable actions on Lloyds, I cant reasonably ask 
them to compensate him for this.
However, Lloyds have accepted their service fell short for Mr G. Ive considered the impact 
of these failings on him, and what an appropriate amount of compensation would be. 
Lloyds havent been able to provide the exact notice of closure for Mr Gs current accounts 
but have sent me the template. On reading this, I can see why Mr G would seek clarity as it 
talks about ending a banking relationship. I understand Lloyds intent wasnt to include 
products such as Mr Gs insurances or mortgage, but on reading it I can understand why he 
may be concerned by this. I accept this will have caused him additional and unnecessary 
worry. I note that when he did seek clarification initially the bank did give him the right 
information on what accounts were to close. But later this was inconsistent.
Lloyds have also accepted that the branch should have raised the DSAR and appeal on his 
first visit, as they said they would. I accept this will have been frustrating for Mr G. But I dont 
think had they been raised at the time the outcome of the appeal would have been any 
different. And I cant see that the delay in receiving the DSAR led to any specific losses.
Likewise, I accept Mr G would be disappointed to not go through identification when he was 
called. This would certainly cause worry about how his personal information was being 
handled. But Ive not seen anything to suggest his data was compromised to a third party.
Im satisfied that its right that Lloyds compensate Mr G for the distress and inconvenience 
they caused. Ive considered all this carefully when deciding what fair compensation would 
be, and Im minded that the offer of £512 from Lloyds is more than fair. While Mr G found his 
experience with Lloyds frustrating, the issues of incorrect information were resolved in a 
reasonable timeframe. On that basis, Im not asking Lloyds to increase the amount of 
compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank UK Plc must pay Mr G the £512 compensation 
previously offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman