DRN-3812926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited declined their legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were hoping to purchase a property from a company Ill call C. Unfortunately, 
the purchase of the property didnt go ahead because of matters Mr and Mrs T discovered. 
Mr and Mrs T say Cs officers lied to them. They wanted to recover the money they had paid 
to C and wanted RSA to cover their legal costs. When they made their claim to RSA they 
said they were seeking £9,254. This was made up what they described as a reservation 
deposit of £5,000, £3,500 to reflect legal expenses and the remainder (£754) for the 
purchase and fitting of laminate flooring.
RSA declined their claim. It said they werent covered for this kind of dispute. The 
investigator agreed.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree. They thought their dispute was over a contract for services and 
was covered under the policy.
My provisional decision
I set out my thoughts in a provisional decision. In it I said:
Both RSA and Mr and Mrs T agree that there is no cover for the claim under any section 
other than the consumer protection section. RSA thinks that Mr and Mrs T are not covered 
here. Mr and Mrs T disagree.
The consumer protection section of the policy says the insured are covered for:
The cost of you pursuing a legal action against another person or organisation as a result of 
a contract you or any of your family have made, or the cost of defending a legal action 
brought against you or any of your family over a contract any of them have made, to:
i) buy or rent consumer goods or services within territorial limits 1, or
ii) sell consumer goods within territorial limits 2.
Mr and Mrs T paid £5,000 to reserve the property. When they first made a claim, they didnt 
seek to claim under the consumer protection section. I think thats because paying a 
reservation fee for a property wouldnt naturally be described as paying for a service. After 
their claim was declined they obtained legal advice and they now say:
[C] was acting in its trade or business by agreeing to the reservation agreement. The 
reservation agreement was unconnected with the purchase of the property itself; it provided 
that myself and my wife would pay to [C] the reservation fee and this was then held by [C] as 
a stakeholder on the terms of the reservation agreement. Neither party was obliged to 
continue with the purchase of a property. Hence, in my opinion, this was a contract for a 
service by [C] as it was required to hold the reservation fee.
I have thought hard about what they have said and whilst I can see their point I dont agree 
with them. I dont think holding the reservation fee constituted a service. Mr and Mrs T 
wanted legal assistance because they wanted to recover the £5,000 they paid to C which 
wasnt returned to them once they decided not to go ahead with the purchase. I cant see 
how holding the reservation fee in these circumstances can be considered to be a service.
The reason they paid the £5,000 was to get Cs agreement not to market or sell the property 
to other potential buyers. I dont think an agreement to reserve a property for a period of time 
could fairly be characterised as a service.
Mr and Mrs T also paid £754 for the supply and fitting of the laminate flooring. I note that 
they havent provided a correctly dated invoice or receipt for their payments. But I am 
satisfied  based on their account and their bank statements - that they did indeed pay for 
laminate flooring to be supplied and fitted. I am also satisfied that when they made their 
payment they were buying both consumer goods and services from C. I appreciate the 
goods and services were bought in anticipation of buying a property from C but that doesnt 
persuade me that this means they shouldnt be covered.
As I think Mr and Mrs T had a contract to buy consumer goods and services (in relation to 
the payment for the flooring) from C I dont think their claim should have been declined at 
this stage. What should have happened is that RSA should have accepted the payment of 
£754 was for the purchase of consumer goods and services and considered it under the 
remaining policy terms. So, it should do that now. If the claim is one that RSA wouldve 
covered then I would expect it to reimburse the relevant proportion of legal fees Mr and Mrs 
T have paid in respect of the flooring aspect of their claim but not in relation to the 
reservation fee or other legal costs. RSA should also pay interest on any payments it makes 
to Mr and Mrs T of 8% per year simple from the time Mr and Mrs T paid those costs until 
they are reimbursed.
If cover is available under the policy for the flooring claim and Mr and Mrs T wish to continue 
to pursue this then RSA should address how best they can do this under the remaining 
policy terms. Ive noted that the insurance policy includes whats known as a bagatelle 
clause; that is the option for the insurer to settle a claim by way of paying the amount in 
dispute (here £754) rather than instruct lawyers. RSA may wish to consider whether to apply 
this term- but its not something I can direct it to do.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party accepted by provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs T say C instructed a third party Ill call E. E is a firm of estate agents and Mr 
and Mrs T say it was instructed by C to perform checks such as on their financial credibility, 
suitability and other matters concerning the purchase of the property by Mr and Mrs T. Mr 
and Mrs T believe that E was providing a service on behalf of C.
RSA believe that as the payments for the flooring were made to C a claim for this money can 
only form part of a claim for losses that flow from alleged misrepresentation of the sale of the 
property by C, which claim is not covered under the policy as the home address on the 
policy schedule is the insureds current address, not the property which is the subject of this 
dispute. It also refers to some things that Mr T said after coming to this service about what 
the complaint is really about. And says that as it only had proof of payment for the flooring 
recently it feels it is unfair for it to be penalised in costs or interest for this.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ts point about E. I think E was providing a service. But I think it 
was providing a service to C not to them. It was, for example, carrying out checks on their 
financial suitability in order to protect C not in order to protect them. So, the information they 
have provided me does not persuade me to change my mind.
I also appreciate RSAs points. Whilst the flooring may have been bought in connection with 
a property sale, looking at the terms of the policy it seems to me to be covered  they 
contracted to buy consumer goods and services and they have a dispute about the contract. 
RSA has the option to draft the policy to make it clear that such a purchase was excluded 
but didnt do so. RSA has referred to comments Mr T made after bringing the complaint to 
this service about what the complaint was really about. Mr T is not a legal expert and so I 
dont think it would be fair to use his analysis of his claim against him. RSA has also said as 
it has only had proof of payment recently it is unfair that it should be penalised in costs or 
interest. I think RSA failed to consider Mr and Mrs Ts claim fairly and in particular to 
separate out the individual components and analyse each separately. If RSA had done so 
then I have no doubt Mr and Mrs T would have provided the credit card statements to it just 
as they did to me when I requested them. In these circumstances it doesnt seem unfair for 
interest to be payable in the manner I directed in my provisional decision.
Overall, therefore for the reasons set out above I intend to uphold this complaint and make 
the direction I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right I think RSA should:
Consider Mr and Mrs Ts claim for flooring in accordance with the remainder of its 
policy terms. If the claim is one that RSA wouldve covered then reimburse the 
relevant proportion of legal fees Mr and Mrs T have paid in respect of the flooring 
aspect of their claim but not in relation to the reservation fee or other legal costs.
Pay interest on any payments it makes to Mr and Mrs T of 8% per year simple from 
the time Mr and Mrs T paid those costs until they are reimbursed.
If cover is available under the policy for the flooring claim and Mr and Mrs T wish to 
continue to pursue this then RSA should address how best it can do this under the 
remaining policy terms.
My final decision
I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Consider Mr and Mrs Ts claim for flooring in accordance with the remainder of its 
policy terms. If the claim is one that RSA wouldve covered then reimburse the 
relevant proportion of legal fees Mr and Mrs T have paid in respect of the flooring 
aspect of their claim but not in relation to the reservation fee or other legal costs.
Pay interest on any payments it makes to Mr and Mrs T of 8% per year simple from 
the time Mr and Mrs T paid those costs until they are reimbursed.
If cover is available under the policy for the flooring claim and Mr and Mrs T wish to 
continue to pursue this then RSA should address how best it can do this under the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman