DRN-2318962
The complaint
Miss O complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked her account and didnt tell her 
what it had done.
What happened
Miss O says she tried to use her Nationwide account on 4 February 2020, but the 
transaction was refused. She says she then tried to withdraw money on 6 February 2020 but 
was unable to do so and so contacted Nationwide. And was told a letter had been returned 
to it and that was the reason for the account block. Miss O questions why Nationwide 
couldnt have told her what had happened via a mobile banking application and says she 
doesnt normally access her secure e-mails using online banking. She says she was without 
money and forced to miss a class that costs about £130 and would like compensation for 
what took place and the stress she was caused as well as for the class cost to be refunded.
Nationwide says it received a returned letter on 4 February 2020 that had been sent to Miss 
O. It says its policy in those circumstances is to place account restrictions on an account and 
contact a customer by secure message. Nationwide says it does so to protect an account 
and customers money and acted in line with account terms and conditions.
Miss O brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide acted in line with account terms and conditions and removed the block 
within hours of Miss O contacting it. The investigator also thought Nationwide contacted Miss 
O by secure message as it said it would in the terms and conditions and that it wasnt our 
role to tell a business to change its policy on these sorts of matters.
Miss O doesnt accept that view and in summary says Nationwide could have contacted her 
by other means and says its policy is not right or fair. She says there was a lack of 
communication and had to wait a day for the account to be unblocked.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate that Miss O will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how 
strongly she feels about what took place and that she was without access to her money.
I am sure Miss O appreciate that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies 
and must have security measures in place to try and prevent such fraud. I accept that on 
occasions legitimate customers can be subject to fraud measures and I accept in those 
circumstances they are caused inconvenience.
I have looked at Miss Os account terms and conditions which I think she would have agreed 
to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that Nationwide 
may restrict account access where it has security concerns and would make contact with a 
customer by secure means. I find that is what took place here that Nationwide received back 
a letter it sent to Miss O and blocked her account. And that Nationwide then communicated 
with Miss O by the means it said it would. So, I dont think Nationwide made a mistake or 
acted unfairly by blocking the account and communicating in the way it said it would.
I appreciate Miss O questions why Nationwide couldnt tell her what was happening by a 
different method. But Im satisfied that its up to Nationwide to decide what its policy is on 
such matters when it exercises its commercial judgement and as we are not its regulator 
then it follows, I cant tell Nationwide to change those policies.
I can see from Nationwides records that the account restrictions were applied on 4 February 
2020 and Miss O tried to make a payment that day but didnt realise the blocks were in 
place. Im satisfied that the next attempted transaction took place on 6 February 2020 and 
that the restrictions were removed some hours later. So, Im satisfied Nationwide removed 
the block within a reasonable time period after Miss O made contact with it and the 
inconvenience was fairly limited in any event.
Overall, I find that Nationwide was entitled to restrict Miss Os account access in line with 
agreed terms and conditions and that it is up to it to decide how it communicates with its 
customers in those circumstances. It follows that I cant fairly recommend Nationwide pay 
compensation as Miss O would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman