DRN-3196159
The complaint
Mr S complained that Thistle Insurance Services failed to send him his renewal documents 
for his home contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S bought home contents insurance with Thistle in 2015. He said he specifically 
mentioned wanting cover for his hearing aids because hed recently lost one of them. In 
April 2021 Mr S made a claim under his insurance policy because hed lost a hearing aid. 
His claim was refused as hearing aids werent covered under his policy. Mr S complained. 
Thistle said it no longer had any record of the 2015 call when Mr S bought his insurance 
policy. But it said it had sent full documentation to Mr S when his policy had renewed each 
year, most recently in August 2020. The policy documents stated that hearing aids werent 
covered. And by accepting the renewal without making any amendments, Mr S had declared 
he was satisfied with the level of cover. It said it was Mr Ss responsibility to check the cover 
was suitable for his needs.
Mr S wasnt happy so brought his complaint to this service. He said hed lived at the same 
address since 2008 but had never received any renewal documents. Had he done so, he 
said he would have taken it up with Thistle. Mr S said hed been affected both financially and 
emotionally and thought it would be fair for Thistle to refund the payments hed made over 
the years. 
Our investigator didnt think Thistle needed to take any further action as she didnt think it 
had acted unfairly. As Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S bought his policy in 2015. Thistle said it doesnt hold call records for longer than 12 
months and so I cant listen to what Mr S said when he first bought his policy, or know how 
Thistle responded. But Mr Ss policy was renewed in August of each year. And each 
renewed policy was a separate contract in its own right. I cant say whether the original 
policy Mr S bought in 2015 covered his hearing aids. But the renewal documents sent to him 
in 2018, 2019 and 2020 clearly show that hearing aids werent covered under his policy in 
those years. The insurer might have made changes to the policy between 2015 and 2018. 
But I dont think that would have been unreasonable as each renewed policy was a new 
contract as Ive said. 
When policies are renewed in this way, insurers (or their agents) will usually send a renewal 
invite to the consumer shortly before the policy is due to expire. And Id expect the invite to 
outline the key details its relying on when offering the policy, to allow the consumer to check 
its correct. The evidence indicates that Thistle sent the appropriate documents each time 
Mr Ss policy renewed.
But Mr Ss complaint is that he didnt receive those renewal documents. And so he assumed 
his hearing aids were covered under the original policy hed bought. The renewal documents 
Ive seen were addressed to the correct postal address. As our investigator said, the letters 
didnt include the street name but Im satisfied this, in itself, wouldnt have prevented the 
letters from reaching Mr S. The propertys name and number were correct, as was the post 
code. There might have been other reasons why Mr S didnt receive those letters, but I dont 
think it would be fair to say Thistle was responsible.
Mr S was also aware his policy was still active between 2015 and 2021. He says hed 
noticed he was still paying for the insurance via direct debit. And those direct debits 
increased slightly each year. So, I think there was a certain responsibility on Mr S to check 
his policy to see if it was still suitable for his needs. Had he contacted Thistle, he could have 
asked it to re-send the policy documents by post  or possibly send them via email. As 
Thistle wasnt aware Mr S hadnt received the documentation, I dont think it would be fair to 
have expected it to do anything more.
So, in summary and in light of the above, I dont think Thistle has treated Mr S unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman