DRN-4261845
The complaint
Mrs G complains as an Administrator of the estate of Ms R about the price charged by Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva) over several years to renew Ms Rs car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs G says, after Ms R passed away, she received a letter from Aviva with a renewal quote. 
Mrs G was concerned about the price quoted and also about the price Ms R had been 
charged the previous year. So Mrs G complained that Aviva had been taking advantage of a 
long-standing customer by overcharging Ms R for her car insurance. 
Aviva responded and explained they werent able to change the premiums charged as these 
had been accepted by Ms R each year. They explained, at renewal they assess risk for the 
next 12 months using statistical claims models and applying various rating factors and 
structures. Aviva explained, they understand a customer might feel certain factors havent 
changed such as address and claims history, but other factors outside of their control, such 
as claims exposure and rising costs of repairs, will have changed. They explained these 
factors can change on a regular basis and will alter the price of insurance. Aviva explained 
the prices they charged were in line with their pricing strategy, so they didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for the estate of Ms R. He thought Aviva hadnt acted 
unfairly in relation to the pricing. Mrs G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think it will help if I firstly set out the premiums Ms R paid to Aviva and the price quoted for 
the 2023 renewal. 
Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
Premium 313.00 £371.00 £426.00 £454.00 £494.00 £532.00 £585.00
Year 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Premium £715.00 £700.00 £700.00 £662.60 £715.00 £730.00 £890.96
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
When a consumer isnt engaging on the cost of their insurance, either through vulnerability 
or something else that stops them from doing this, wed say they are inert. And when looking 
at complaints brought by inert customers  or a representative on their behalf, we expect to 
see that theyve not been treated differently as a result. Offering a new business discount is 
something which was common with insurance previously and where customers have had the 
benefit of a reduced premium when the policy is first taken out, it was fair for an insurer to 
increase the premium to recoup the discount applied. This is why it wasnt uncommon for a 
consumer to see an increase in premium in the few years following them first taking out an 
insurance policy. 
That said, I do understand why Mrs G became concerned when receiving the 2023 renewal 
quote. Its not only an increase from the previous year, but Mrs G says the 2022 price in any 
event is more than double what it shouldve been. Aviva have provided me with confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Ms Rs premiums were calculated. Im afraid I 
cant share this with Mrs G because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. 
And, Im satisfied the premiums charged have been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive 
seen no evidence that other Aviva customers in Ms Rs position will have been charged a 
lower premium at the time. 
Aviva say, due to their systems, they cant see renewals prior to 2010. Theyve provided a 
complete breakdown of all premiums charged from this point. Ive carefully reviewed all 
breakdowns which includes details of all rating factors taken into account and the individual 
price and percentage charged for each. As mentioned above, I cant share this with Mrs G 
as its business sensitive information. But, I can see in the years when the price increased 
this was down to a range of factors. This includes, but is not limited to, changes in rating 
factors relating to the area where Ms R lived, the make, model and age of her car, and the 
base rate which is impacted by claims inflation. So, I cant say Aviva have made a mistake 
when calculating a price, or that they treated Ms R unfairly. 
Aviva have explained the policy was set for manual renewal  which means it required Ms R 
to renew by either calling Aviva or accepting the quote online. Aviva say the policy wasnt 
ever set to renew automatically. Aviva have provided information which shows Ms R 
renewed online between 2013 to 2018. Ms R then called Aviva to renew in 2019 and 2020. 
And then renewed online again in 2021 and 2022. So, this shows Ms R was engaging with 
Aviva in relation to her insurance and actively choosing to accept the renewal as opposed to 
the policy renewing automatically in the event of Ms R not taking any action. 
I acknowledge Mrs G says Ms R was a long standing and loyal customer who wouldnt have 
been alert to how much more she was paying. Mrs G says Ms R wouldve likely trusted she 
was being quoted the market price and wouldve paid it each year. Mrs G says inertia 
shouldnt just apply where a policy is set up to automatically renew and should also take into 
account customers who may not shop around because they place their trust in the insurer to 
offer a competitive price. I do wish to reassure Mrs G that, when considering this complaint, I 
have considered factors beyond just the automatic renewal not being in place. I can see    
Ms R did engage with Aviva in two policy years to discuss a discount  most recently in 2020 
when Aviva agreed to apply a 10% discount. Ive seen what the price was originally and how 
the discount brought the price down. So, this further persuades me that Ms R wasnt inert in 
relation to her insurance renewals.    
I note Mrs G says insurers should inform customers they can get a cheaper policy 
elsewhere. I can see Aviva did, in their renewal quotes, remind Ms R that she could shop 
around to see if she could get a better price. As there had been at least four renewals, then 
section 6.5 of the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business 
to provide specific wording about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating  
Ms R fairly, I think theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. I wish to reassure Mrs G Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman