DRN-2412193
The complaint
Mr K complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited reduced his claim settlement 
unfairly. Mr K had claimed on his motor insurance policy.  
  
What happened
Mr K took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire in 2014. And it renewed each year, up to 
and including 2018. During the 2018/19 policy period, Mr K was unfortunate to be involved in 
what hes described as a life changing car accident.
When Mr K submitted a claim for his car, Skyfire rejected it. This was on the basis that they 
believed Mr K to have been using his car for business purposes. Mr K complained to Skyfire 
about that, and in turn brought his case to our service.
That case was concluded in Mr Ks favour. The agreement reached was that Skyfire ought to 
deal with Mr Ks claim, that it should add interest to any cash settlement paid and that it 
should pay him £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
The agreement included that Skyfire could proportionately settle the claim as per the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Both parties 
accepted that as a resolution of the matter.
However, the settlement paid was far lower than Mr K had been expecting.
And that was because Skyfire used the proportionate settlement allowed for under CIDRA. 
Skyfire considered Mr K to have misrepresented his occupation, the need for business use 
cover, and a motoring offence.
Mr K feels this is unfair and that the reduction is excessive. Particularly as he believes he 
was found to have made a mistake rather than having deliberately misrepresented any of the 
information.
An investigator here looked into Mr Ks concerns. And while they agreed he hadnt 
deliberately misrepresented those factors, they felt he ought to have taken more care when 
checking his renewal documents. And had Mr K done so, hed have realised some of the 
information required was missing or needed updating.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator, he maintains that the reduction is excessive. And he 
feels Skyfire ought to compensate him for all the difficulties he feels theyve caused him in 
their handling of his claim. Mr K has asked for an ombudsman to decide his case.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfire thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
renewed his policy in 2018, this is the policy the claim was made under. Skyfire said Mr K is 
a business owner, but that his statement of fact had him listed as employed. They also said 
he should have told them he required business use. And finally, Skyfire said Mr K shouldve 
told them about his motoring offence.
When Mr Ks policy renewed in 2018, he was provided with documents to read. These 
included a Statement of Motor Insurance, or Statement of Fact. Ive reviewed this statement 
and it says it should be read carefully and that if any information is omitted or is incorrect, 
that Skyfire should be informed immediately. It goes on to say that if information is incorrect 
it could lead to a claim not being paid.
The statement shows Mr Ks employment status as employed. Thats incorrect, because he 
is a business owner. So, Mr K ought to have checked this and informed Skyfire that it 
needed to be corrected. I appreciate it also says Mr K is a caf owner, and that doesnt really 
match up with being employed, so Skyfire might have been able to deduce for themselves 
that it wasnt quite right. But I dont think that removes Mr Ks responsibility to take 
reasonable care. And therefore, I find him to have made a misrepresentation in this respect.
The statement also shows Mr Ks class of cover as being Social Domestic and Pleasure. 
The investigator in the previous case found that it was more likely than not Mr K required 
business use for his policy. And it doesnt appear Mr K disputed that when agreement was 
reached previously.
I appreciate Mr K now says he didnt dispute it because he thought the reduction in his claim 
would be relatively small. But he said recently that he wasnt using his car for work purposes 
on that given day. This isnt just about that given day, and I think its reasonable to infer from 
that comment that Mr K sometimes used his car for business.
And Mr K mentioned in the phone call with Skyfire, when he changed his car, that hed 
sometimes use his car for work purposes. I appreciate that too mightve led Skyfire to 
believe he required additional cover, but when he said this the discussion was about the 
overnight location of his car. And when specifically asked if he required business use, he 
said no. So, I find Mr K to have made a misrepresentation in this respect too.
I would like to reassure Mr K that the above two issues were of very little consequence to the 
reduction in claim settlement. So, agreeing to the outcome of the previous case, and not 
disputing the business use point further, isnt why theres such a large shortfall.
Finally, the statement shows that Mr K had no motoring offences. That isnt correct, which
Mr K accepts, and therefore this is a misrepresentation as well. And its the reason Mr K has 
had such a large reduction in his claim settlement.Its understandable that insurers will deem people with motoring offences to be a greater 
risk, than those without them, and that theyll charge more for cover. Skyfire has shown this 
is a significant factor to them and that theyd have charged Mr K a lot more for his policy.
Where there are qualifying misrepresentations relating to the premium, CIDRA says Skyfire 
can settle a claim proportionately. This is based on the proportion of premium Mr K paid 
against what he would have been charged, but for the misrepresentations. And this is the 
case even where it results from an oversight, as Mr K has suggested it was.
I appreciate this may seem harsh, and may feel unfair, especially where someone is found 
not to have deliberately misled their insurer  but it does make clear the importance of taking 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Its also more stark in a case like this due 
to Mr Ks car being an expensive one.
Skyfire was able to demonstrate that Mr K had paid 60.77% of the premium he wouldve 
been charged, but for the misrepresentations  so that was the proportion of his claim that 
was paid. And its what CIDRA allows for. However, during our investigation it came to light 
that Skyfire hadnt considered the additional premium Mr K had paid, for his change of 
vehicle part way through the policy. As the claim occurred after the change in vehicle it was 
a requirement for that to be factored in.
Skyfire has now done this and has shown that Mr K had paid 63% of the premium he 
wouldve been charged. This means the settlement ought to be increased accordingly and 
further interest ought to be added to the portion that wasnt paid.
Mr K has said he lost out in other ways as a result of this matter. But he was paid £350 in 
relation to the distress and inconvenience caused by the initial rejection of his claim, so I 
dont think its for me to revisit that in this case. Mr K has also referred to out of pocket 
expenses such as taxi fares, medical expenses and storage costs. These dont appear to 
have been considered as part of Skyfires final response so I think any claim for those ought 
to be handled by them first.
The issue for me to decide was whether Skyfires proportionate settlement of Mr Ks claim 
was fair, and to consider any losses which resulted from it.
Ive explained why I think the proportionate settlement was fair, and while Ive noted it wasnt 
quite right, I dont feel the difference between the two will have caused Mr K any additional 
losses or distress and inconvenience  especially as he suggests the greater amount owed 
is equally unreasonable. So, I think Mr K wouldve been in largely the same position as he 
was when the lower settlement was paid. And this decision puts right the shortfall identified, 
with interest.  
Putting things right
I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to settle Mr Ks claim on a proportionate basis 
at 63%, less payments already made. Interest should be added to the amount due, at the 
rate of 8% per annum simple, from the date of loss to the date payment is made.
HM Revenue and Customs requires Skyfire to deduct tax from this interest. Skyfire must 
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I require Skyfire 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman