DRN-2652014
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains about the service it received from Lloyds Bank PLC 
following fraudulent activity on its account.
What happened
In early 2020, a number of fraudulent transactions took place on Rs account. These 
included a number of withdrawals at several different Lloyds branches. R reported the 
transactions to Lloyds and they were all then refunded. R also asked Lloyds for further 
information about how the transactions had taken place, identifying information about who 
carried out the transactions and details of Lloyds investigation into the fraud. But Lloyds 
didnt provide all the information R asked for and so R made a complaint.
Lloyds investigated the complaint and said it couldnt give R all the information it wanted. But 
it did confirm it had reported the case to Action Fraud and offered R a total of £500 
compensation for the poor service it had received. R wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, 
so referred its complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt Lloyds had acted reasonably in 
providing information about the case to the relevant authorities and that they couldnt require 
Lloyds to give R the information it had asked for. They also said they felt the compensation 
Lloyds had offered was fair. R disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has accepted that all the transactions R raised were fraudulent and has refunded 
them to Rs account. So Im satisfied R hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result of the 
fraudulent transactions.
Lloyds has also explained that at least some of the transactions were allowed to happen as 
a result of its staff not following the correct process and its accepted that this was an error 
on its part. Its also taken steps to help prevent further fraud by placing restrictions on Rs 
account, which I think is reasonable.
I understand R is concerned that some of the fraudulent transactions happened after earlier 
fraudulent transactions had been reported and after Lloyds said it had taken steps to help 
prevent further fraud. But it will never be possible to prevent all fraud taking place. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the industry regulator, so I dont have the power to ask a 
business to change its processes or procedures. And, as I said above, Lloyds has refunded 
the transactions and it did so relatively promptly.
I also understand why R has asked for more information about how the transactions took 
place, who carried them out and any investigations into the fraud. A third party was able to 
withdraw significant amounts of money from its account and it wants reassurance that this 
wont continue happening.
Lloyds said it reported the situation to Action Fraud and the police and has forwarded 
relevant evidence to them, but it cant provide any further details while the police 
investigation is ongoing. And I dont think Lloyds is being unreasonable by not wanting to put 
anything potentially useful to those looking to commit fraud into the public domain, 
regardless of how genuine and honest Rs request is. So I wont be asking Lloyds to share 
more information that it already has.
Lloyds has offered to pay R a total of £500 compensation. And from what Ive seen, I think 
this is fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience caused to R as a result of 
Lloyds poor customer service.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay R £500 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay R £500, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman