DRN-3589073
The complaint
Miss G complained that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) told her she would incur a fee if 
she withdrew funds from her Lifetime Individual Savings Account (LISA). 
What happened
Miss G opened a LISA with Skipton in 2018. This was to help Miss G save towards the 
purchase of her first home. Miss G said she deposited £4,000 each year, so that a £1,000 
government bonus would be applied to her account. 
In April 2021 Miss G had an offer of around £490,000 accepted on a property. She said she 
contacted Skipton and was told that if she withdrew the money from the account to use for 
the house purchase, she would incur a 25% penalty fee, as the property being purchased 
was above the £450,000 limit. Miss G complained to Skipton. 
Skipton responded and said it could not waive the penalty fee. It said the terms and 
conditions provided when the account was opened online made it clear that the product 
might not be suitable if the envisaged house value was more than £450,000. It said if Miss G 
wanted to appeal the withdrawal charge, once a withdrawal had been made, it could provide 
her with a statement giving details of the relevant charge, and Miss G then had four years to 
make a written request to HMRC for a refund of the charge. 
Miss G then complained to this Service. She said when she opened the account she was 
aware of the £450,000 limit. But she said house prices had increased considerably since 
then, while the terms and conditions of the account hadnt been updated in line with that 
growth. Miss G said if she withdrew the money then she would lose all of the government 
bonus and around £2,000 of her own savings. Miss G said when she contacted Skipton, she 
was sent backwards and forwards between Skipton and HMRC. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. She said the key facts document provided 
to Miss G when the LISA was opened outlined the limitations of the account, including the 
property price limit and withdrawal penalties. So she didnt think that Skipton had done 
anything wrong by enforcing the terms of the account. Our Investigator also said Skipton 
wasnt responsible for any HMRC related delays in dealing with Miss Gs queries. 
Miss G didnt agree with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
After reviewing all of the information provided, I contacted Miss G to clarify this Services 
remit in relation to her particular complaint. I am now in a position to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has said that she was aware of the terms and conditions of the account at the time 
she opened it, including that there was a purchase price upper limit and that penalties would 
apply in some circumstances. The crux of Miss Gs complaint is that the cost of buying 
property has increased so much since she opened the account that she doesnt think its fair 
to apply an upper limit of £450,000. Miss G feels strongly that this upper limit should have 
been increased in line with changes in the property market. 
I appreciate what Miss G is saying here and I understand why this must be frustrating for 
her. However, its my understanding that the upper limit of £450,000 isnt set by Skipton. 
Whilst the account is provided and administered by Skipton, particular terms are set by the 
government, and adherence to these terms is monitored by HMRC. So, from what I can see, 
Skipton does not have the power to change the terms, and it also has to comply with them.
For our part, this Services remit is limited to settling complaints between consumers and 
regulated financial businesses. Our remit does not extend to looking at whether terms 
decided by bodies other than regulated businesses are fair. So this Service simply does not 
have the power to decide on the fairness of the £450,000 limit, or suggest changes to it. 
What I can do here is look at whether Skipton has acted in line with the terms of Miss Gs 
account and whether it provided a reasonable level of service. 
The terms of the account outline the property purchase upper limit, that withdrawal penalty 
charges might apply, and that account closures or withdrawals may mean that consumers 
get back less money than they paid in. So Im satisfied Skipton was acting in line with the 
terms of the policy when it told Miss G that a 25% withdrawal penalty would apply if she 
intended to use the money in the account to purchase a property for more than £450,000. 
Miss G also complained about the service provided by Skipton and felt she was going 
around in circles between it and HMRC. I appreciate that this must have been a stressful 
time for Miss G, but I cant see that Skipton did anything other than let her know it couldnt 
waive the fee, and so she decided to contact HMRC as decisions about waiving the fee can 
only be made by them. I know that Miss G had some difficulty getting in contact with HMRC, 
and while this is unfortunate, Skipton is not responsible for this. 
Ms G is also keen to know exactly what was said between her and the Skipton advisor she 
spoke to around the time she opened the account. She said their discussion was about 
whether she could envisage purchasing a property over £450,000, which she says she 
clearly could not. Ive decided that it isnt necessary for me to listen to that call for the 
purposes of making a decision about this complaint. 
Whatever might have been said between Miss G and the advisor, Im satisfied that Miss G 
knew the limitations of the account that are the subject of this complaint - she said as much 
when she brought her complaint to this Service. So given this, and the limitations of the 
actions we can take here, listening to the call will not have any impact on the outcome. 
Skipton does not have the power to change the terms being complained about, and neither 
does this Service. 
I know my decision will disappoint Miss G and I appreciate shes found this matter stressful, 
but I could only uphold her complaint if I thought Skipton had acted unfairly or outside the 
terms of the account, and Im satisfied it hasnt. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman