DRN-3482430
The complaint
Miss A complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and their decision to 
decline the claim she made on her Home Emergency (HE) insurance policy.
What happened
On 28th October 2021, Miss A contacted RSA to make a claim on her HE insurance policy as 
her bath and bathroom sink had no hot water. So, she wanted RSA to arrange for a repair to 
be completed.
But RSA declined the claim, stating it didnt meet the criteria of an emergency as Miss A still 
had hot water running to her kitchen and shower and, as she had no boiler, she still had 
heating to her property. Miss A was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss A didnt think RSAs decision to decline her claim was fair. She didnt think she should 
be penalised for the way in which her apartment received hot water, without the need for a 
boiler. She explained she was left unable to wash using her bathroom basin or bath and so, 
she thought RSA should repair the issue under the terms of the policy. Miss A was also 
unhappy with the service RSA provided, including the length of time the first call took before 
it was disconnected and RSAs failure to call her back.
RSA responded and upheld Miss As complaint. They thought the declinature of the claim 
was fair and they maintained the situation failed to meet the criteria for an emergency for the 
reasons theyd previously explained. But they agreed with Miss A that the service they had 
provided when Miss A contacted them was unreasonable. So, they offered Miss A £75 to 
recognise any upset and inconvenience shed been caused. Miss A didnt think this offer was 
enough and wanted the compensation to be increased. RSA asked Miss A to clarify her 
reasoning behind this increase, but felt they didnt receive a satisfactory response and so, 
they made no further offer. Miss A remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought RSA had acted 
fairly when declining the claim, acting in line with the terms and conditions of Miss As policy. 
And they thought the £75 RSA offered was a fair one, to acknowledge the inconvenience 
shed been caused by the service shed received. So, they didnt think RSA needed to do 
anything more.
Miss A didnt agree. She maintained her view that the decline of her claim was unfair. So, 
she wanted the claim to be upheld and RSA to re-imburse her the £550 she spent repairing 
the issue. Our investigator responded maintaining their belief that RSA had acted fairly and 
so, didnt think RSA should refund these costs. Miss A was unhappy with this, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss A. I appreciate the 
inconvenience and worry Miss A wouldve felt when she realised she had no running hot 
water to her bath and bathroom basin. And I understand Miss A took out a HE insurance 
policy with RSA to help alleviate this worry and inconvenience in this sort of situation. So, 
when RSA declined Miss As claim, I can understand why Miss A would feel as though shed 
been unfairly treated. And, I appreciate how RSAs failures in their service wouldve made 
this worse.
But for me to say RSA should refund the costs of the repair Miss A arranged and paid for 
herself, Id need to be satisfied RSAs decision to decline the claim was unfair. And for me to 
say the £75 offer already made to Miss A for RSAs service failures should be increased; Id 
need to be satisfied the original offer failed to adequately compensate Miss A for the 
inconvenience she was caused. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case. 
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
how Ive considered Miss As complaint. Its important to explain that its not my role to re-
underwrite Miss As claim. Instead, it is my role to decide whether I think RSA acted fairly 
and reasonably when underwriting the claim themselves.
To do this, Ive thought about the terms and conditions of the HE insurance policy Miss A 
held. I can see within the policy document, it explains Home Emergency Assistance does 
not cover everything with you might regard as an emergency. I think this term makes it clear 
that the acceptance of a claim would be based on RSAs criteria for an emergency and that 
there was a chance this may differ to Miss As.
The terms and conditions then go on to explain that RSA will pay the cost of the repair, parts 
and call out charges for work undertaken which if not dealt with immediately upon discovery 
will make the home unsafe or unsecure for you, cause damage to the home or its contents, 
or result in the home losing its main source of electricity, lighting or water (hot or cold). I 
think this term makes it reasonably clear what criteria a claim would need to meet to qualify 
as an emergency.
Miss A has confirmed at the time, she had no hot water running to her bath, or her bathroom 
basin. But she confirmed she still had hot water running to her kitchen and her shower and 
that heating was still available to her property. RSA have said because of this, Miss As 
claim didnt meet the criteria of an emergency. So, Ive thought about whether I think RSA 
were fair to take this decision. And I think they were.
In Miss As situation, she still had access to hot water in a sink via her kitchen. And she had 
the ability to ensure she could clean herself, as she was able to access hot water through 
her shower. Miss A also had heating available, so her health wasnt immediately at risk. 
Because of this, I dont think I can say RSA acted unfairly when deciding Miss As claim 
failed to meet the criteria of her property having lost its main source of hot water. 
Miss A has questioned this and sought clarification on what would be considered a main 
source of water. But as Ive explained, Im not the insurer. So, Im unable to speculate on 
how many supplies of hot water Miss As property would need to suffer a fault in order to 
qualify from RSAs perspective.Thats not to say I havent thought about Miss As points regarding her inability to take a bath 
or wash her hands in hot water after using the toilet. And I dont dispute this wouldve been 
inconvenient for Miss A. I appreciate Miss A was prevented from bathing in the way she 
wished because of the loss of hot water and the frustration this wouldve caused. But 
crucially, I dont think the HE policy Miss A held was intended to cover claims for a 
customers preferred method of bathing or washing their hands. It is an emergency 
insurance product, with clear definitions set out stating what it deems to be an emergency. 
And I dont think RSA have acted unfairly when deciding Miss As claim didnt meet that 
criteria on this occasion. 
Because of this, Im unable to direct RSA to re-imburse Miss A for the costs she incurred to 
repair the issue. Nor do I think RSA need to compensate Miss A for the inconvenience she 
was caused by having no hot water to the bath or bathroom basin itself.
I recognise RSA dont dispute the fact their service fell below the level they would expect 
when Miss A called them. And theyve offered £75 to recognise the upset and inconvenience 
this aspect of the complaint caused Miss A. So, Ive thought about whether I think this offer 
is a fair one. And I think it is.
I think the £75 takes into consideration the length of Miss As initial call, which RSA accept 
took longer than it needed to. And I think it compensates Miss A for the upset she was 
caused when the call was disconnected and had to chase RSA for a call back. But I think it 
also takes into consideration the fact that within around 27 hours of Miss A making the claim, 
RSA had made her aware it would be declined. And that theyd already accepted their 
service failures at this point and put their offer of compensation to Miss A. So, based on the 
evidence available to me, I think this offer is a fair one and in line with what I wouldve 
directed, had it not already been made. Because of this, I dont think RSA need to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss A was hoping for. And I appreciate it wont address 
Miss As concerns about the suitability of the policy for her property, due to the way in which 
the water is supplied. But this complaint isnt about the suitability of a policy, only that RSA 
applied the terms of the policy Miss A holds in a fair and reasonable way. And I think they 
have on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman