DRN-3783267
The complaint
Mrs R complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it advanced her loans. Had it carried out proper checks it 
wouldve discovered Mrs R couldnt afford them. 
What happened
Mrs R took six loans between February 2018 and November 2019. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 07/02/2018 17/05/2018 20 £15.00
2 £200.00 17/05/2018 03/09/2018 20 £15.00
3 £150.00 17/05/2018 13/09/2018 33 £7.50
4 £500.00 03/09/2018 12/04/2019 33 £25.00
5 £500.00 12/04/2019 12/11/2019 33 £25.00
6 £1,000.00 12/11/2019 30/06/2020 34 £50.00
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2 and 3 were running at the 
same time Mrs Rs weekly commitment was £22.50. 
Morses considered Mrs Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. Mrs Rs representatives didnt 
agree and referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought a reasonable decision to lend 
had been made for loans 1 - 3. But in the adjudicators view, loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have 
been granted as Mrs R was committed to using a significant portion of her income to meet 
the repayments. Finally, she thought by the time of loan 6, considering the lending 
relationship that any further loans would have been harmful for Mrs R.  
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation and Ive summarised its response 
below.
Mrs R only had six loans and it isnt unreasonable to expect the loan values to 
increase. 
No evidence has been provided to show Mrs R was using other funds to meet her 
repayments. 
While loan 4 was opened at the same time as loan 3, they only ran concurrently for 
10 days which meant there was only one week where Mrs R had to make her 
combined commitment of £32.50 
Adequate checks were completed before each loan application and Mrs R had a 
good repayment history.
Mrs R didnt tell Morses she was having financial difficulties. 
Mrs Rs representative confirmed receipt of the assessment but no further comments were 
provided.   
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this sort of lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs 
Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors include:
Mrs R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs R.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs R was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Mrs R appears to have agreed with the outcome that the adjudicator reached and Morses 
hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 1 - 3. Therefore, these loans 
are no longer in dispute, so I wont be making a finding about them. But I have kept these 
loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses decision to provide loans 4  6. 
Loans 4 and 5
The adjudicator upheld these loans, because in her view, the combined repayment due for 
loans 3 and 4 represented a significant portion of her income. Therefore, loan 4, and any 
further lending was now unstainable for Mrs R. Ive considered this and Ive outlined my 
reasons below for why these loans should be upheld. 
For loan 4 Mrs R declared she had a weekly income of around £156.50 and Morses was 
aware, at this time that Mrs Rs income was solely made up of benefits.  Mrs R had 
outgoings of around £86.75 per week. The outgoing figure included the repayment Mrs R 
was already making towards loan 3. This left around £69.75 per week to make her weekly 
repayment of £25. The loan therefore may have looked pounds and pence affordable. 
However, in saying that I dont think, given what Ive seen that Morses made a fair decision 
when it decided to lend to Mrs R. Im, therefore, upholding Mrs Rs complaint about it and 
Ive explained why below. 
Mrs R was committed to spending around 22% of her income towards meeting her 
commitment to Morses when loan 4 was granted (and with loan 3 running concurrently). In 
my view these payments in this case were too high when considering what it knew about 
Mrs Rs circumstances. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk, in my view that Mrs R wouldnt have 
been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its 
unlikely Mrs R wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for this loan and any 
future loans.  Which, in my view was shown by the fact Mrs R continued to take new loans of 
the same value or greater in a consecutive manner. 
This is especially so, when considering the statement of account, it looks like part of loan 4 
went towards repaying loan 2. Loan 4 was also the largest capital loan to date  at more 
than twice of the size of any other loan taken and it was now the second time that Mrs R had 
been approved for a loan in a consecutive manner (given loans 2 and 3 were approved on 
the same day). 
So, given the concerns about the borrowing history Mrs R provided along with what else 
Morses knew about her meant, that in my view loan 4 and 5 werent sustainable for Mrs R. 
Ive considered what Morses says about the overlap between loans 3 and 4 was only 
10 days. However, Loan 3 was closed 16 weeks sooner than Morses had expected so when 
loan 4 was approved, it ought to have considered that the loan would run to term. There was 
no indication, as far as I can see, that wouldve led Morses to believe Mrs R would settle 
loan 3 so quickly after granting loan 4. 
Theres clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses 
to lend, but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint. 
And whilst a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that something 
has gone wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  I will always look at the broader 
circumstances  as Ive done here. 
Im not suggesting that just because Mrs R had a modest income which was likely made up 
solely from benefits that funds couldnt be lent to her. But what Morses needed to do was appreciate that taking into account the commitments that she had to it and over the time 
period was in my view not sustainable.  
Ive considered what Morses says in response to the adjudicator, but I dont think these 
comments change my mind. As Ive said above, some checks were carried out which may 
have shown the loans were affordable, but Morses also had to consider whether the loan 
was sustainable and I dont think, in this case it did that.
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint about loans 4 and 5.
Loan 6
For this loan, Morses has shown that it asked Mrs R for details of her income and 
expenditure. She declared, an income of £362.94 with outgoings of £288.03 per week. This 
left Mrs R with a weekly disposable income of £74.91 per week to make her weekly 
repayments of no more than £50. 
Based solely on Mrs Rs income and expenditure information Morses couldve been 
confident she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. Although, Morses knew it was leaving around £25 per week to Mrs R to cover any 
unexpected living costs for the next 34 weeks  which is a not an insignificant period of time. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering the consecutive nature 
of the borrowing and the large capital increase.  By now, it wouldve been reasonable for 
Morses to have at the very least, started to have verified the information it was being given. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest carried out further checks in this case. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Mrs R. 
So in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mrs R, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Rs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mrs R was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs R had taken out five loans in 21 months. So Morses ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mrs R was having to borrow further to cover 
a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
From her first loan, Mrs R was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous 
loan was repaid and at times the new loans went to repay outstanding loans. For 
example, it seems that some of loan 4 went towards repaying loan 2. To me, this is a 
sign that Mrs R was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in her income rather 
than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mrs Rs weekly commitments generally 
increased. There was no time when her commitment significantly decreased. Which 
may have given Morses confidence that Mrs R was no longer reliant on these loans. 
However, the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive manner and there was 
a general pattern that her overall lending was increasing, ought to have led it to 
realise these loans werent sustainable anymore. Mrs R wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out 21 months after Mrs Rs first loan and was to be repaid over the longest 
term  34 weeks. Her final loan was also the largest capital loan to date and was five 
times the value of the first loan.  Mrs R had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Mrs R lost out when Morses provided loan 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs R borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint about loans 4 - 6.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not given Mrs R loans 4 - 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs R may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs R would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs R loans 4 - 6.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs R towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs R originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mrs R the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mrs Rs credit file 
in relation to loans 4 and 5. The overall pattern of Mrs Rs borrowing for loan 6 
means any information recorded about it is adverse, so Morses should remove the 
loan entirely from Mrs Rs credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint in part. 
 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs R as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman