DRN-3126653
The complaint
Ms C complains about Wescot Credit Services Limited trading as Wescots actions when 
trying to recover two debts from her. 
What happened
Ms C has told us she entered into a Debt Management Plan (DMP) in 2013 via an 
organisation that provides debt advice (C). Ms C says the DMP included two debts she had 
with a lender (S). In December 2018 S instructed Westcot to administer the payments Ms C 
was making towards the debts as part of her DMP. 
The DMP ended last year but Westcot contacted Ms C to say there were outstanding 
balances on both accounts it was managing. Wescot said Ms C owed £439.13 on one 
account (ref ending 5966) and £379.67 on the other (ref ending 9426). 
Ms C complained to Westcot as she thought her DMP had repaid the debts in question. 
Ms C asked Westcot to provide proof of the outstanding balances it was seeking to collect. 
Ms C also complained that Wescot hadnt been contacting her at the right address. 
Westcot didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint and said it hadnt provided the balances C was 
working from. Wescot confirmed the outstanding balances it gave were correct. Wescot also 
said Ms C hadnt updated her address with it or S so it wasnt aware shed moved home. 
Wescot went on to advise that account ending 5966 had been returned to S to administer. 
Wescot apologised for the time it had taken to respond to Ms Cs complaints and reduced 
the outstanding balance of account ending 9426 to £300. 
Ms C referred her complaint to us and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Wescot 
had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms C asked to appeal 
and said she had her mail forwarded for six months after she moved and that other 
businesses had been able to contact her. Ms C also said shed agreed to repay the full 
balance of account ending 9426 but didnt hear back from Wescot. Ms C said she still hadnt 
been given proof of the outstanding balance for account ending 5966. As Ms C asked to 
appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C has told us she entered into a DMP via C in 2013 and moved in 2014. From the point 
Ms C entered the DMP, C forwarded her payments. The payments wouldve been made 
directly to S until December 2018 when Wescot was instructed to administer both debts. 
Westcot has advised that S was unaware Ms C had moved so it was given her old address. I 
know Ms C feels Westcot couldve got her new address from C, but it had no reason to think 
shed moved. The payments had been consistently made from 2013 to S and from 
December 2018 to Westcot. Given C was acting to administer the DMP on Ms Cs behalf, I 
cant see why Wescot wouldve needed to write to her directly until payments were missed. 
Once the payments stopped, Wescot tried to contact Ms C at the address provided by S. It 
was later able to trace Ms C to her new address and get in touch with her about the 
outstanding balances. I havent found Wescot made errors with Ms Cs address. 
Ms C has explained she asked for evidence of the payments made and outstanding loan 
balances. Ill deal with each account in turn. I can see Wescot was able to provide a detailed 
statement for account ending 9426 that confirmed the outstanding balance of £379.67 it was 
seeking to collect was correct. Ms C has confirmed she is satisfied that figure is right and 
agreed to offer full repayment. 
Wescot failed to quickly respond to Ms C, but has agreed to reduce the outstanding balance 
to £300 to recognise its delays. Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve this part of Ms Cs 
complaint and reflects its delayed response. I leave it to Ms C to decide how to proceed. 
Ms C says she hasnt been sent evidence to confirm the outstanding balance of account 
ending 5966 is correct. I appreciate Ms C doesnt feel confident the outstanding balance 
figure provided is right. But Westcot could only provide the evidence given to it by S, the 
lender. I can see account statements have been provided along with a list of all payments 
made via the DMP. But I agree the level of detail doesnt match the statement information for 
account ending 9426. I can see Ms C feels Wescot has failed to demonstrate the amount it 
says is outstanding it correct, but Im satisfied its provided all the available information. 
Account ending 5966 has been returned to S, so Wescot is no longer involved with any debt 
collection in connection to it. Im satisfied that Wescot sought to obtain as much information 
as possible from the debt owner and sent it to Ms C. I havent been persuaded Wescot 
treated Ms C unfairly.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Wescot Credit Services Limited 
trading as Wescot has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman