DRN-3460587
The complaint
Mr M complains BizBritain Finance Limited mis-sold him a loan.
What happened
Mr M wanted a loan to fund his business, which is a limited company. He applied for a loan 
online through a government backed programme (which Ill call S) aimed at helping small 
businesses through start-up loans. S passed Mr Ms details to BizBritain, a delivery partner 
and credit broker. BizBritain referred the finalised application to a creditor (which Ill call B). 
B issued a loan to Mr M. It was a personal loan for business use.
A few of months later Mr M complained. He said the loan had been mis-sold to him. He also 
said, among other things, the loan had been issued to him when it should have been issued 
to his limited company and hed applied for a bounce back loan, not a start-up loan. 
BizBritain said, in summary, S was responsible for the website Mr M had applied through, it 
had facilitated his application and it didnt accept it had done anything wrong.  
Mr M asked our service for an independent review. The investigator didnt think BizBritain 
had acted unfairly. In her view Mr M had applied for a start-up loan and had been provided 
with enough information to understand what he was applying for. Mr M didnt agree so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has numerous complaint points. I have read and considered them all. I will, however, 
focus on issues which are - in my opinion - relevant to reaching a fair outcome to this 
complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
Mr M applied for the loan through S. Ive reviewed Ss website. I havent been presented with 
any evidence to suggest it has materially changed since Mr M viewed it. Under the section 
What is a Start Up Loan? it says: 
A Start Up Loan is a government-backed personal loan [my emphasis] available to 
individuals looking to start or grow a business in the UK.
When a borrower applies there is a pre-registration page which says:
A Start Up Loan is a government-backed personal loan [my emphasis] available to 
individuals looking to start or grow a business in the UK
The loan is unsecured, so there's no need to put forward any assets or guarantors to 
support an application.
Theres then a box which needs ticking before the application can progress which says:
Please tick the box to confirm you have read and understood the Start Up Loan product 
features, including that it is a personal loan [my emphasis] for business purposes.
Theres a link to frequently asked questions. One of the questions is Why is a Start Up Loan 
a personal loan and not a business loan?. The answer given is:
We believe that its important for business owners to be personally invested in the success 
of their business, which is why Start Up Loans are structured as personal loans rather than 
business loans. By making individuals accountable for their loan repayments we seek to 
empower applicants to make the right decisions for themselves and their business, like how 
much to borrow and how the money should be used to achieve business goals.
To support applicants in making these decisions, we require all individuals to submit a 
Business Plan, Cash Flow Forecast and Personal Survival Budget as part of their 
application. These documents serve two purposes. Firstly, they help us better understand an 
individuals personal and business needs to determine how we can best support them. 
Secondly, they help us make a lending decision by allowing us to assess an individuals 
ability to repay the loan and the viability of their business plans.
Mr M completed his application online so he must have ticked the box to say he understood. 
S then passed the details to BizBritain, one of its delivery partners. Ss website says:
As well as helping applicants to prepare their business plans and cash flow forecasts, our 
delivery partners assess final loan applications and provide ongoing mentoring to people 
whose loan applications are successful.
BizBritain went on to work with Mr M on his business plans, cash flow forecasts, and 
assessed the loan application. This included taking details of Mr Ms personal income and 
expenditure and completing credit checks on Mr M  which he knew about. The application 
was approved, and Mr M was sent a loan agreement. 
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement. It sets out the terms of the loan, including the 
interest rate. The customer shows as Mr M  there is no reference to his limited company. 
And there is a direct debit mandate for repayments in the name of Mr M, not his limited 
company. Mr M has suggested he didnt see and/or read the loan agreement. Ive seen an 
audit history. This shows it was sent to him on 2 September 2020 at 16:12 and signed 
electronically by him about 30 minutes later. Im satisfied Mr M viewed, or ought reasonably 
to have viewed, the loan agreement. And I note in a message to BizBritain on 8 September 
2020 Mr M said: 
My start up loan [my emphasis] is approved. I signed the documents. When and where do 
they send funds. To which account?
From this Im satisfied Mr M signed the loan agreement, and therefore agreed to be bound 
by it. 
Mr M complains the loan was mis-sold to him because it had been issued to him when it 
should have been issued to his limited company, and because hed applied for a bounce 
back loan, not a start-up loan. Given what Ive set out above, Im not persuaded the loan was 
mis-sold. I consider Mr M knew, or ought reasonably to have known, it was a personal 
start-up loan. It follows this isnt a complaint I should uphold.Im sorry to hear about the impact Mr M says this matter has had on him and I accept hell 
most likely be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this final
decision ends what our service can do for him. However, he can reject my decision and 
pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman