DRN-3401133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained that they are unhappy with the quality of a car they bought in 
July 2021 using a hire purchase agreement with Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage).
What happened
In July 2021, Mr and Mrs K acquired a BMW 116D M Sport that was just under six years old. 
The cost was just under £12,300.00, and Mr and Mrs K borrowed this amount from 
Advantage over 60 months. The monthly cost was £368.64. The mileage noted on the MOT 
certificate dated July 2021 was 67,096.
Mr and Mrs K said that the car developed faults within the first three months. They said the 
car was making a loud knocking noise and losing power. They took it back to the supplying 
dealer, and its investigation showed that the oxygen sensor, auxiliary belt and tensioner, and 
inlet manifold needed to be replaced.
Mr and Mrs K complained to Advantage in November 2021. Advantage commissioned an 
independent inspection report. Following this, Advantage said that it wouldnt uphold Mr & 
Mrs Ks complaint, because although the report confirmed there were some faults identified 
with the vehicle, they would not affect the vehicle being fit for purpose now nor at point of 
sale. The faults identified were considered to be a minor issue, and were due to general 
wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with this, and brought their complaint to this service. In 
December 2021 they also asked a separate garage for an assessment of the car, and they 
were told that the car had faults with the oxygen sensor, inlet manifold, auxiliary belt and 
crankshaft/bottom pulley. Although not a detailed report, the mechanic had noted that the 
state of the inlet manifold suggested that it had been in that state for four to five months and 
noted stored faults from the cars computer from July 2021. 
This was sent to Advantage, which referred it to the independent examiner for comment. The 
examiner said that, at the time of inspection, he could not identify any issue with the inlet 
manifold, and a breach of the manifold would normally affect the vehicles emissions. The 
vehicle passed an MOT around the date of sale, suggesting that there was no manifold 
breach at the time of the MOT. The most likely cause was general wear and tear rather than 
a manufacturing defect.
Our investigator looked into this complaint, and concluded that Mr and Mrs Ks complaint 
should be upheld. Advantage disagreed, and asked that it be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why. 
Because Advantage supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was nearly six years old. And the price was lower than that of 
a new car. So its reasonable to expect that parts of the car would have suffered a degree of 
wear and tear, and that a car of this age would likely need repair and maintenance sooner 
than a newer car. 
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
I set out above the information that Mr and Mrs K provided about the sequence of events. 
None of the faults described occurred within the first 30 days after they took delivery of the 
car, so the short term right to reject under the CRA doesnt apply here. 
Mr and Mrs K sent in all the paperwork they had on the car, including the independent report 
commissioned by Advantage, their own assessment from another garage, previous service 
records, and two MOT certificates - one from June 2021 and another from July 2021, carried 
out on the day they acquired the car. There was an invoice for repairs carried out on the day 
of the earlier MOT, addressed to what seems to be the dealership that supplied the car to Mr 
and Mrs K, showing that the auxiliary belt was replaced (amongst other things). One of the 
previous service records, from August 2020, shows an oxygen sensor fault, but there is no 
record confirming that it was replaced. 
Mr & Mrs K also arranged for the car to be repaired at the supplying dealership in February 
2022, and they sent in the invoice showing the repairs and the cost. The manifold, oxygen 
sensor and belt and tensioner were replaced, at a cost of £987.77. The faults listed on the 
invoice were clicking noise on start-up, pulley loose, engine losing power. 
Advantage sent in copies of the hire-purchase agreement and the independent report, as 
well as further commentary, by the examiner, on the information provided by Mr and Mrs K 
and on our investigators view. 
The repairs actually carried out in February 2022 accord with the those identified in the 
quote from the supplying dealership in November 2021, and in the assessment given to Mr 
and Mrs K when they took the car to a different garage in December 2021. However, the 
independent examiner did not identify a fault with the inlet manifold, and said his opinion was 
that it was not faulty, as the fault codes that were noted during the inspection were indicative 
of a restriction in gas flow that had been caused by a faulty oxygen sensor. Nonetheless, 
there clearly were faults with the car when Mr and Mrs K complained to Advantage  the 
issue I have to decide is whether the car was of satisfactory quality in July 2021 when Mr 
and Mrs K acquired it. 
I note that, in his report, the independent examiner said immediate upon start-up, I heard a 
rhythmic, metallic rattling and knocking noise emanating from the front of the engine. This 
noise changed in direct relation to the engine speed. There was a light red, rusty-coloured dust debris coating on the exposed drive belt and alternator. The examiner could not 
complete a test drive because of this. 
He went on to say This vehicle is not currently fit for purpose due to audible noise from the 
engine; further investigation under workshop control conditions will be necessary to 
ascertain the cause of this noise, but we believe this is possibly coming from one or more of 
the auxiliary drive belt components. There are also fault codes stating that the oxygen 
sensor is faulty, since this can fail suddenly and without warning, it cannot be said that it was 
present at the point of purchase, but this is a minor issue and can be easily rectified by 
replacing the sensor and would not affect the vehicles overall general condition now or at the 
point of sale.
Based on the vehicle owners statement that the symptoms only appeared recently, we can 
confirm that the noise was not present at the point of sale.
I should say here that Mr and Mrs K told us that said that they had only just realised there 
was a noise  rather than it had only recently started - because it wasnt audible inside the 
car. 
The examiner concluded Our opinion that the vehicle was road legal and fit for purpose at 
the point of sale is reaffirmed by the fact that it passed an MOT in and around the date of 
purchase; if the audible engine noise had been present at the time of the MOT, the MOT 
tester would have issued a notification of refusal to test the vehicle in fear of damaging the 
engine.
The most likely cause of the current issue is considered to be progressive, age-related, 
general wear & tear to one or more of the auxiliary drive belt components, but to confirm this, 
closer examination under workshop control conditions will be necessary, as previously 
stated, and assuming the symptoms can be attributed to general wear & tear, this would not 
affect the vehicle being considered fit for purpose.
Advantage cited the contents of the independent report and argued that while it was 
sympathetic to Mr and Mrs K, they hadnt provided any evidence confirming that the current 
faults were present at the time of purchase, and that the MOT carried out prior to the day of 
purchase confirmed the vehicle passed with no advisories. It also said that the car is a used 
six-year-old vehicle and so it would be expected that parts will need replacing and repairs 
carried out as general routine maintenance. 
Advantage also said that Mr & Mrs K had completed 4,166 miles in the vehicle since 
inception, and the vehicle could not have been driven for that distance had the noise/issue 
been present at the point of sale, and as such it stood by the independent report and did not 
accept our investigators view that issues were likely to have been present at the point of 
sale. 
Having looked at the mileage, I note the MOT certificate in July 2021 shows a mileage of 
67,096 and the independent report a mileage of 70,266, meaning the Mr and Mrs K could 
only have completed 3,170 miles rather than 4,166. 
Following our investigators view, Advantage obtained further commentary from the 
independent examiner. In summary, he said that his opinion was that the manifold was not 
faulty, as the fault codes that were noted during the inspection were indicative of a restriction 
in gas flow that had been caused by a faulty oxygen sensor. He believed that replacing the 
oxygen sensor and cleaning the DPF would have eliminated the fault with the vehicles 
induction/exhaust gas flow system. He also said that there was no basis to assume that 
oxygen sensor was faulty prior to the date of purchase, and it had not been replaced. The previous owner could have had repairs completed outside the BMW network, and not 
updated the vehicles service history.
He reiterated that, in his opinion, the issues with this vehicle only developed after the point of 
sale and could be directly attributed to age-related, general wear and tear. This was 
reaffirmed by the fact the vehicle passed an MOT the day before the date of sale; if there 
was an audible noise coming from the vehicles auxiliary belt system at that time, the MOT 
tester would have issued a notification of refusal to test the vehicle for fear of damaging the 
engine, and if the oxygen sensor was faulty at that point, this would have caused an 
increase in the vehicles emissions, and would have resulted in an MOT failure.
He went on to say The need to replace an oxygen sensor multiple times throughout a 
vehicles history would not be considered unusual as oxygen sensors can fail suddenly and 
without warning, particularly if the vehicle has been subjected to stop/start driving, and poor 
quality fuel is used. Poor quality fuels can cause carbon to build up very quickly in the 
oxygen sensor elements, and can result in the elements overheating, then failing 
prematurely.
I accept that I cant be certain the oxygen sensor wasnt replaced in August 2020, but 
equally theres no evidence to say it was. And certainly it was faulty in November 2021, only 
four months after Mr and Mrs K acquired the car. I note the examiners comments about 
oxygen sensors failing suddenly, and potential reasons for this, but there has been no 
suggestion that this car has been subjected to stop/start driving by Mr and Mrs K, or that 
they have used poor quality fuel. The mileage at the service in August 2020 was 60,598, so 
if the oxygen sensor was replaced around that time it had become faulty within a year and 
less than 10,000 miles. I understand that the failure of the oxygen sensor can lead to other 
components not working properly, especially those requiring oxygen, for instance the inlet 
manifold and ultimately these related parts will fail.
I noted above that the service history from June 2021 shows that the auxiliary belt was 
replaced. Haynes, the renowned car service manual publishers, indicate that an auxiliary 
belt should last between 50,000 and 100,000 miles. In this case, the belt required 
replacement after just over 3,000 miles. This suggests to me that there were underlying 
issues causing the failure of the belt after such a short time.
There are conflicting opinions about the inlet manifold  the independent examiner was 
firmly of the opinion that it was not faulty, whereas the dealership and the other garage 
consulted by Mr and Mrs K were of the opinion that it was. And it ultimately was replaced 
when Mr and Mrs K had the car repaired at the dealership. 
Finally, as I noted above, although the independent examiner said in his report that the most 
likely cause of the faults were general wear and tear, he also said that to confirm this, closer 
examination under workshop control conditions will be necessary, as previously stated, and 
assuming the symptoms can be attributed to general wear & tear, this would not affect the 
vehicle being considered fit for purpose. But no examination under workshop control 
conditions then took place, so Im not persuaded it can be assumed that the issues were due 
to wear and tear. 
Ive also kept in mind that, whilst the car passed an MOT test in July 2021, the purpose of an 
MOT is to test important items on the car to check that they meet the legal standards. It 
doesnt require the general mechanical condition to be checked.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence provided by all the parties, on balance Im not 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ks car was of satisfactory quality when they acquired it in July 
2021. The necessary repairs were quite substantial, and were required just a few months after acquiring the car. Although this was a used car, I think it reasonable for Mr and Mrs K 
to expect the car to be in working order for some time before undertaking significant repairs. 
So my conclusion is that Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs K were able to use the car for the first few months, but as the quote from the 
dealership and the independent report were both carried out in November 2021, and it is 
clear the car couldnt be used from then on, I think it fair that Advantage should refund the 
monthly payments made by Mr and Mrs K from November 2021 to February 2022, together 
with the cost of the repairs to the car. I also agree with our investigator that Advantage 
should pay £150 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by the faults occurring. 
Putting things right
Advantage should:
Refund the monthly payments Mr and Mrs K made under the hire purchase agreement 
from 1 November 2021 to 28 February 2022.
Refund £987.77 in relation to the repairs carried out in February 2022.
pay 8% simple interest* on all refunded amounts from the date Mr and Mrs K paid them 
to the date compensation is paid.
Pay £150 for the inconvenience Mr and Mrs K experienced due to the faults with the car.
Remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Ks credit file (if any has been 
added).
*if Advantage considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs K a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and I direct 
Advantage Finance Ltd to compensate Mr and Mrs K as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman