DRN-3793244
The complaint
Miss R complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted a loan to her. 
What happened
Miss R took one loan from Morses on 18 February 2022. She borrowed £400 to be repaid 
over 35 weeks at the rate of £20 per week. The statement of account provided by Morses 
shows that as of 25 June 2022 a balance remains due of £595.
 
Following Miss Rs complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss Rs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She thought, perhaps Morses ought to 
have done further checks before the loan was granted. But as no new or further information 
had been provided by Miss Rs representatives, she couldnt uphold this loan. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss Rs representative didnt agree and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss R could afford to pay back the amount 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss 
Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss R. These factors include:
Miss R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss R.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss R was able to repay her 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Rs complaint and having done so, Im not upholding 
the complaint and Ive explained why below. 
Before the loan was approved, Morses took details of Miss Rs income and expenditure. She 
declared a weekly income of £250 with declared weekly outgoings of £166. Leaving around 
£84 per week in which to make her repayment of £20. This loan looked affordable to Morses 
based on the information Miss R declared.  
In addition, before this loan was granted Morses also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results to the Financial Ombudsman.  
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect information Miss R 
may be able to see in her own credit report. There could be for several reasons for this, such 
as Morses only asking for certain pieces of information. But what Morses cant do is carry 
out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.  
Having looked at the credit check results, there was some adverse information which 
needed considering. Morses knew that six months before this loan was approved Miss R 
had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) recorded on her credit file for £1,128  this was 
unsatisfied at the time. 
Morses knew there were a total of 4 defaults recorded on Miss Rs credit file. The most 
recent of which had been recorded within the last year. In total the value of her defaulted 
accounts came to £2,149 and none of these defaults had yet been satisfied. 
Finally, Morses was aware of outstanding total debt of £3,413 across 10 active accounts In 
addition, the credit results explained to Morses that the likely monthly repayment due to 
other creditors was around £335. There were also some indicators that Miss R had fallen 
behind with other credit commitments within the last six months. 
Overall, I do think there was enough in the credit check results to have prompted Morses to 
have carried out further checks. I therefore think it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to 
have verified the information Miss R provided about her income and expenditure. This 
couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking 
at bank statements and/or Miss Rs full credit file.However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be 
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve 
likely discovered that Miss R couldnt afford it.
Miss Rs representative hasnt provided a copy of her credit file or her bank statements (and 
has been given time to provide them) covering the period leading up to loan being advanced. 
Without anything further, I cant be sure what Morses may have seen had it carried out better 
checks. So, I cant fairly uphold the complaint about this loan. 
An outstanding balance does remains due, and Id remind Morses of its obligation to treat 
Miss R fairly and with forbearance  if necessary when discussing repayment of the debt. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman