DRN-2348000
The complaint
Ms M has complained that S.D.Taylor (trading as Loansathome (LAH)) lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. LAH disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms Ms complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and forms 
part of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms M took two home credit loans from LAH between October and November 2019. A
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH, can be found
below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate RepaidNo of Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedHighest Combined 
Weekly Repayment
1 23/10/2019 outstanding 33 £400.00 £20.00
2 20/11/2019 outstanding 33 £200.00 £30.00
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ms complaint. He thought the repayment for both 
loans represented a substantial proportion of Ms Ms income. In those circumstances, he 
thought there was a significant risk that she wouldnt have been able to meet her existing 
commitments without having to borrow again. So, he recommended both loans be 
upheld.
It appears that Ms M agreed with our adjudicators opinion. LAH disagreed and provided 
the following points to consider:
As a proportion of Ms Ms total income, the loan payments appeared affordable.
On what basis, and using what evidence, has this service determined that just 
over 10% debt to income is not sustainably affordable for Ms M?
LAH disagree that it has placed Ms M in financial difficulty and that the loans were 
unaffordable or unsustainable at the time of lending. Unfortunately, unforeseen 
circumstances beyond the control of LAH or Ms M seem to have been the cause 
of the financial difficulties.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing could signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming unsustainable).
There could be a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LAH was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint. And having done so Im intending to 
partly uphold the complaint.
Loan 1
At the time of the loan application, Ms M told LAH she received a weekly income totalling 
£194.84, made up of three benefit payments. And it appears that her income was verified by 
an agent prior to the loan being approved. In addition to her income, Ms M also declared she 
had expenses of £113.75, which appears to be her total expenses on a weekly basis. This 
left Ms M with a weekly disposable income of around £81.09.LAH completed a credit check at the time of the loan application. LAH knew Ms M had other 
home credit loans with other lenders with repayments totalling £36.46. Ive checked the 
information about Ms Ms repayments to these other lenders and this information seems to 
be accurate.
Whilst LAH noted these repayments of £36.46 as monthly in its Decision Summary, it does 
look like it factored in the weekly repayments as part of Ms Ms overall affordability  which it 
needed to do.
The weekly repayment for this loan was £20 which were equal to just over 10% of Ms Ms 
declared monthly income. But given this was Ms Ms first loan with LAH, so it had no 
borrowing history to go by, the loan appeared affordable, and it carried out proportionate 
checks. Thinking about these factors, I dont think it was wrong for LAH to have approved 
this loan.
Loan 2
But when Ms M applied for her second loan, I think LAH had information to suggest the loan
was likely to be a detriment to her financial situation.
Ms M applied for loan 2 four weeks after taking out loan 1. It appears that LAH completed
the same checks as it did for her previous loan. Ms M declared that her income hadnt
changed, and she was still receiving £194.84 a week. LAH recorded her weekly expenses as
£138.75, which was slightly more than she had declared for her previous loan. But the
reason for the increased expenses was likely due to loan 1 still being active at the time of
her second loan application. This meant LAH recorded Ms Ms disposable income as £56.09
per week.
The weekly repayment for loan 2 was £10 but along with the repayments for Ms Ms first
loan which was still running, this meant she was paying LAH a total of £30 a week for both
loans. Which, in my view, Ms M has now reached the threshold to say that she was
committed to paying LAH a significant portion of her weekly disposable income to it.
In response to the adjudication, LAH made some comments around the percentage of
income. But to be clear, there is going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been
reasonable for a firm to lend, but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each
individual complaint  including what the lender knew and what it reasonable ought to have
known. And whilst a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that
something has gone wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  this service will always look at
the broader circumstances. So, there isnt an absolute percentage point at which
repayments are, or arent, potentially problematic.
And in this case, Im satisfied that by allowing Ms M to take out loan two it had now reached
the point where a significant portion of Ms Ms disposable income would have to go towards
repaying her loans.
In addition, LAH knew from its credit check results that Ms M had four home credit loans
outstanding with repayments totalling £37.38. I will assume that one of these loans was loan
1 with LAH. But this still means that LAH knew of three other home credit loans with other
lenders and that Ms M was committing to repaying, in total, around £67 a week towards
home credit loans. So, I think there was a significant risk the lending would prove to be
unsustainable.
Because of these factors, I dont think LAH were right to approve loan 2.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LAH has accepted the findings in the provisional decision.
Ms M has told us she disagrees with the findings about loan one. She says it shouldnt have 
been approved loan one as LAH used her child maintenance payments as a source of 
income. Ms M says she told LAH that the payments were erratic so she couldnt depend on 
it.
As I explained in my provisional decision, for loan one LAH recorded Ms Ms income as £194 
per week, and her income (including the maintenance payments) appear to have been 
verified by an agent prior to the loan being approved. Although, I dont know what evidence 
LAH saw about the maintenance payments.  
Ive not seen anything to make me think LAH knew at the time that the payment was erratic. 
So, I dont think, given what Ive seen, that it was unreasonable for LAH to include this figure 
as part of her income. And for the reasons Ive explained in the provisional decision, I dont 
think it was wrong of LAH to approve the first loan.  
So, Ive reached the same conclusions about this complaint as I did in the provisional 
decision.  Ive outlined below what LAH needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, LAH should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back, then 
it needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on loan 
2
LAH should rework the accounts for loan 2 so that Ms M only has to repay 
the principal borrowed and it should treat any repayments made by Ms M to 
LAH (and the third party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal 
balance.
If and when Ms M had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any 
overpayment should be refunded to her. To this overpayment 8% simple a year 
interest should be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date 
of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, 
LAH should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Ms M to repay the 
balance. But Id remind LAHs obligation to treat her fairly.
LAH should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file 
in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should 
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, I partly uphold Ms Ms 
complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman