DRN-3981885
The complaint
Miss S complains about mistakes Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) made in 
recording a claim shed made under her legal expenses insurance policy and the legal fees 
theyd paid. She was concerned this had led to an increase in her premiums.
Where I refer to RSA, I include their claims handlers and agents.
What happened
Miss S had legal expenses insurance (LEI) as part of her home insurance policy with RSA. 
In 2019 she made a claim for cover to pursue a claim against her employer. RSA appointed 
panel solicitors to consider the legal claim. They didnt think it had reasonable prospects of 
success and RSA declined her claim on that basis. Miss S complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. We said then RSA had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim.
In February 2022 Miss S noticed her renewal letter showed that RSA had paid the solicitor 
£1,800 in 2018. She made a data subject access request to both the solicitors and RSA 
which she hoped would explain why the charges were so high. When she didnt get the 
information she was hoping for, Miss S brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
We explained we couldnt look at her concerns about the claim shed made under the policy 
since wed already considered that issue previously. And we said we couldnt consider her 
concerns about the fees RSA had paid the solicitors. But we put the concerns Miss S had 
raised about inaccuracies in RSAs records about the legal fees theyd paid and the potential 
impact on her premiums to RSA.
Miss S told us shed noticed from her renewal documentation that RSA had recorded a claim 
for legal fees theyd paid in 2018. And the figures in renewal letters from 2020 onwards 
showed different figures for those fees - £1,500 and £1,800. Miss S felt that if the fees 
related to the work done in connection with her employment claim, the date was wrong  it 
ought to have been 2019. She was also concerned RSA had wrongly recorded that theyd 
paid fees of £6,600 in relation to four separate claims. And she thought her insurance 
premiums may have gone up as a result.
RSA responded in June 2022. They concluded Miss Ss claims record hadnt adversely 
affected her renewal premiums or her no claims discount (NCD). Miss S didnt think theyd 
addressed all her concerns, including inaccuracies in their records, so asked us to 
investigate.
Our investigator was satisfied that RSAs records only showed one legal expenses claim had 
been made and that the fees for that had been £1,800; although the renewal showed the 
claim had been made in 2018, that was a mistake - it related to the claim shed made in 
2019; and there hadnt been any impact on Miss Ss premium or NCD. Miss S remained 
unhappy and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. So, her complaint was passed 
to me to review afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Ive come to a partially different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give the parties the chance to make further comments.
Im sorry to hear about Miss Ss health issues. I can understand any concerns shes had 
about her LEI may have added to an already stressful situation. To be clear, I am only 
looking here at Miss Ss concerns that RSA inaccurately recorded a claim shed made on her 
policy which may have led to an increase in her premiums.
Im not considering Miss Ss concerns about
the previous complaint she made when RSA rejected her claim to pursue her 
employer since we looked at it previously as a separate complaint;
the fees the solicitors charged RSA for work theyd carried out in connection with the 
employment claim; or
her data subject access request.
Miss S has accepted we cant look into those issues.
The solicitors who considered Miss Ss legal claim against her employer have explained 
there was an administrative error that led to the work they carried out for RSA initially being 
attributed to the wrong claim year. They told Miss S that
RSA instructed them in September 2019;
they hadnt sent RSA a bill in 2018;
theyd originally billed RSA £1,500 in September 2019 but had made a mistake and 
reissued a bill for £1,800 in November 2019;
and theyd received only one payment which was for £1,800 in May 2020.
The solicitors explanation fits with the information Ive seen.
The solicitors sent Miss S a letter confirming theyd been instructed to deal with her 
employment case in September 2019.
RSAs renewal letters for the years 2018  2022 show Miss S had only made one 
legal claim.
Theres no mention of a claim until the 2020 renewal letter. If there had been a claim 
in 2018, Id expect it to have been mentioned in the 2019 renewal letter. I think its 
reasonable to conclude the reference in the 2020 renewal letter should have been to 
a 2019 claim and the reference to a claim in 2018 is a mistake.
Although two different figures for the legal costs appear - £1,500 and £1,800  they 
both have the same claim date and reflect the amounts the solicitors say they billed 
initially and the revised amount.
Since our investigator issued her view, Miss S has asked RSA for a further explanation. 
Shes unhappy some of the information theyve now provided is unclear. They seem to have 
looked at it as a new complaint. But theyve confirmed she made her claim on the policy in 
2019 and that they paid fees totalling £1,800.
I think RSAs records are inaccurate in showing Miss S made a claim in 2018 and that fees 
were £1,500. That seems to stem from the mistake the solicitors made initially. But Im satisfied only one claim was made, RSA only paid £1,800 and the payment was for the 2019 
claim.
I can understand Miss S found the renewal information confusing. And shes concerned RSA 
didnt clarify the position after she complained. RSA confirmed in June 2022 Miss Ss 
premiums and NCD hadnt been affected by her claims record  which she accepted  but 
the accuracy of her records wasnt answered. I think thats partly because RSA didnt fully 
understand her concerns at the time. But their most recent response didnt explain things 
clearly either.
Miss S has explained her concerns about the information RSA hold about her has caused 
her distress. I think that relates partly to other concerns she has that her data may have 
been shared with third parties, which arent part of this complaint. But her concerns about 
the accuracy of RSAs records remain. And I think its fair and reasonable RSA pay 
compensation of £200 to Miss S for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a 
result.
RSA will also need to review Miss Ss claims record and adjust it as necessary. From what 
Ive seen I think it will need to be amended so, for example, renewal information is accurate 
going forward. If RSA disagree, they should provide Miss S with a clear explanation as to 
why it is right.
My provisional decision
To put things right, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should, within 28 days of Miss S 
accepting my decision, if she chooses to,
1. either amend Miss Ss claims record to accurately show the date on which she made 
her claim and the legal fees they paid in connection with the claim; or,
2. if they consider the claims record to be accurate, provide Miss S with a clear 
explanation as to why that is the case; and 
3. pay Miss S £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
Miss S has made some comments on my provisional decision. In summary: 
she feels my summary of the claim she made on her policy in 2019 was inaccurate
she remains unhappy about RSA rejecting her claim to pursue her employer 
shes unhappy RSA hasnt acknowledged or recorded the successful part of the 
claim she made against her employer 
she feels RSA could have dealt with her concerns about inaccuracies sooner 
RSA said theyd take the actions I proposed in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Miss S remains unhappy with the outcome of her claim on her LEI policy in 
2019. As Ive explained, and Miss S has accepted, I cant look at her complaint about that. 
My summary of Miss Ss claim and the reasons RSA declined it set out in the background to 
this decision is intentionally brief for that reason. I intend no discourtesy to Miss S in not 
providing more detail.As Ive set out above, I am only looking here at Miss Ss concerns that RSA inaccurately 
recorded a claim shed made on her policy which may have led to an increase in her 
premiums. Shes now mentioned RSAs records dont show she was partially successful in 
her claim against her employer. Thats not part of this complaint so I dont make any findings 
about it here. That said, I think it would be unusual for a claims record to include detailed 
information about the issues in and outcomes relating to legal proceedings  particularly 
where, as here, the insurer had limited involvement in the legal case. 
I note Miss Ss unhappy about the time taken to address her concerns about the accuracy of 
her records. Ive taken that into account in proposing RSA pay her compensation.
Having carefully considered the parties responses to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change my mind about upholding Miss Ss complaint for the reasons I set out. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think its fair and reasonable for Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
to take the actions I set out in my provisional decision and below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to take the following actions, within 28 days of Miss S accepting my 
decision, if she chooses to:
1. either amend Miss Ss claims record to accurately show the date on which 
she made her claim and the legal fees they paid in connection with the claim; 
or,
2. if they consider the claims record to be accurate, provide Miss S with a clear 
explanation as to why that is the case; and 
3. pay Miss S £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman