DRN-2037639
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that British Gas Services Limited (BG) hasnt provided cover for the boiler in 
his rental property, and he complains about the customer service he received.
What happened
Mr A had HomeCare Two boiler and central heating cover with BG. The policy was for 
landlords and allowed BG to discuss work directly with the tenants. 
Mr As tenants told him there wasnt any hot water, so he contacted BG. The engineer found 
that the problem was caused by sludge in the system, which wasnt covered under the 
policy. BG says it provided a quote for the work which wasnt accepted.
The following week, Mr A made a further appointment with BG which it then rescheduled to a 
few days later. During that time, the boiler stopped working altogether and his tenants were 
left without heating or hot water. When BG attended the rescheduled appointment, the 
engineer found that a new boiler had been installed that day.
BG paid Mr A £50 for the inconvenience of rescheduling the appointment, but Mr A remained 
unhappy. He complained that he had lost a months rent and incurred the cost of a new 
boiler. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She saw that BG identified the problem with the 
boiler, but it wasnt covered under Mr As policy. And as Mr A didnt ask BG to do the work 
on the boiler, she didnt think it was responsible for the lost rent. Our investigator thought 
that BG wouldnt have been able to repair the boiler at the next appointment because Mr A 
hadnt agreed to the work, so she didnt think there was any significant inconvenience to Mr 
A when it rescheduled. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said BG didnt give him a repair quote and he felt it had some 
responsibility towards his tenants who were left without heating and hot water during the 
winter.
 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Mr A provided evidence of correspondence between him and his tenants, and between him 
and BG. BG provided log notes, including details of engineer visits.  There is very little 
conflicting evidence, so the course of events is quite clear.
The text messages between Mr A and his tenant suggest that Mr A wasnt at the property for 
the engineer visits. The tenant let him know when an appointment had been missed and he 
told the tenant to expect direct contact from BG. This is the benefit of the landlord policy  to 
minimise contact between landlord and BG, and the tenant can make arrangements more 
suited to them. 
The first point of dispute is whether BG left a repair quote. Mr A says it didnt and he had no 
idea that it had quoted for work until he called its contact centre a week later. BGs callout 
notes say the engineer left a quote. I dont doubt that Mr A didnt receive a quote for the 
work, but I dont think that means BG didnt leave one during the first appointment. I cant 
see any benefit in BG saying it quoted for chargeable work if it didnt. I think theres a strong 
possibility that the quote was left with the tenant and, as BG told Mr A, followed up by letter. 
Ive seen a text message from the tenant in which she tells Mr A shed received a letter 
about the follow up appointment, and this supports what BG said. But, whether or not BG left 
a quote, the work was outside Mr As policy, so I cant see any evidence of a shortfall here.
Mr A said that BG cancelled several appointments. The evidence provided by both Mr A and 
BG show that BG rescheduled one appointment. BG has apologised for the inconvenience it 
caused and paid Mr A £50. Given that it was the tenant who told Mr A that BG hadnt 
attended, I think the inconvenience to him was minimal. So Im satisfied that the 
compensation already paid is enough to address the shortfall in service.
Mr A thought BG should cover the rental income he lost due to his tenants not paying rent 
for the month they were without heating. He has since said that isnt an issue of his 
complaint. I understand his tenants were in arears anyway, and its unlikely the lack of 
heating and hot water had a direct impact on this matter. However, even if that were the only 
reason the tenants didnt pay rent for one month, I dont think anything BG did or didnt do 
contributed to that. Mr As policy didnt cover the problem with the boiler, so BG wouldve 
only been completing the work if he had asked it to. He says that he didnt. Mr A replaced 
the boiler at his own expense on the same day BG attended the rescheduled appointment. 
That appointment was just 12 days after the first appointment so, again, I think any 
inconvenience wouldve been minimal. So I see no reason for BG to make a payment to Mr 
A to cover any part of the lost rental income.
Finally, Mr A is unhappy that BG hasnt addressed the inconvenience experienced by his 
tenants. I understand that it wont have been a pleasant time for the tenants, especially as 
the heating wasnt available to them during winter. But BGs contract is with Mr A to provide 
the cover stated in his policy. It attended when asked to, identified the cause of the problem, 
which wasnt covered under the policy, and Mr A asked someone else to replace the boiler. I 
cant see where BG has any responsibility towards Mr As tenants in this scenario, so I dont 
think BG needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman