DRN-3816421
The complaint
Ms W complains that after resolving a complaint with her in January 2022, Morses Club PLC  
did not do as it said it would do in the settlement agreement  namely  remove all the loans 
it said it would remove from her credit file. 
What happened
Ms W complained to Morses about the affordability of her loans in November 2021. It 
reviewed her complaint, issued its final response letter in January 2022 in relation to that and 
upheld her complaint in part. 
Ms W had been approved for 16 loans and Morses upheld her complaint for loans 6 to 16. It 
issued a detailed FRL showing the loans that it was upholding, the loans it was not 
upholding, a calculation of the redress due and that the last loans  unpaid  were going to 
be written off. Those last loans had been transferred to a debt collection agency Ill refer to 
as LL. And Morses informed Ms W that her credit file was going to be amended to remove 
loans 6 to 16 from her credit file record. 
Ms W has said that LL were still harassing me and sending me threatening emails about 
bailiffs attending my property
The current complaint started because the loans had not been removed from her credit file. 
Ms W referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in June 2022 and at that 
time she told us the loans still showed on her record. 
On 15 August 2022, the last four loans - loans 13 to 16  were removed from Ms Ws credit 
file. She has said this long delay has caused her anxiety and has prevented her from 
obtaining other credit. 
Morses investigated it and issued an FRL for this complaint dated 6 September 2022 in 
which it admitted that it had arranged for loans 6 to 12 to be removed from her credit file but 
not loans 13 to 16. Those last Morses loans have now been removed from Ms Ws credit file.  
Morses accepted it had got it wrong and offered compensation of £100. 
Ms W was not content and referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She explained 
that it had affected her mental health. And that the LL had continued to hassle her with 
letters and demands after the original affordability complaint had been resolved. Ms W 
wanted more compensation. One of our adjudicators considered that the £100 was a 
satisfactory amount. 
And he did not have any evidence from Ms W which demonstrated to him that Morses 
mistake had caused her to be declined for other credit. So, he did not uphold Ms Ws 
complaint as he felt that the 6 September FRL was a suitable outcome for Ms W and Morses 
did not need to do more.
Ms Ws response was a succinct summary of the situation: I would like a [sic] ombudsman 
to look at my complaint please if that is possible 8 months is a long time for somebody to not 
agree to a final settlement agreement when they said it would be done in 6 weeks
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
I asked Morses for the original FRL from January 2022, further evidence such as account 
notes and/or recorded calls about the times that Ms W had contacted them about the credit 
file amendment and copy correspondence between Morses and LL. Most of this has been 
provided or explained. I have not received copy recorded calls but I have relatively detailed 
account notes covering the period January 2022 to 6 September 2022. I have no evidence 
from Ms W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W has explained the issues and what has happened. As well as Ms W explaining the 
impact she says it had on her mental health, she said this in her complaint for to us: 
I can't get any other credit or finance due to the missed payments still on my credit 
file.
But Ms W has not been able to send to us any evidence of the impact these Morses entries 
on her credit file has had on further credit applications. And so, I can attach little weight to 
that claim by her. Ms W has had time to send information to us. I cannot make a finding that 
the credit file mistake by Morses led to her not obtaining credit elsewhere. 
And I am sorry to hear of the mental health issues and I hope that this decision finds her in a 
better place. But I am not persuaded that the non-removal of loans 13 to 16 until 
August 2022 was enough to lead me to think that her mental health deteriorated to the 
extent she has described. And I explain here.  
Ms Ws credit file would still have had the Morses loans on her credit file as some of the 
loans were not part of the Morses complaint uphold  meaning loans 1 to 5. Morses has 
explained that the loans 6 to 12 were removed when it said it would do. And Ive not seen 
anything to make me think that it didnt do this in time. And Morses had explained to Ms W 
that the amendments to credit files can take up to 60 days to show. And it was likely that 
even with Morses mistake, Ms W would have had the Morses loans 1 to 5 and loans 13 to 
16 showing on her credit file for some time. After the whole thing had been corrected in 
August 2022, still the Morses loans 1 to 5 would have appeared on her file. And on balance, 
and without evidence from Ms W to show otherwise, I doubt that the additional four loans on 
her credit file would have made that much of a difference. 
In relation to the correspondence between Morses and LL, I have been sent copy emails 
from LL to Morses dated 12 March 2022 saying that it wanted a confirmation about 
loans 13 to 16 as Ms W had told LL they were the subject of a complaint and were closed. 
Morses confirmed to LL on the same day that I can confirm that the affordability complaint 
has been upheld and the below loans are due to be written off/closed and recourse. 
LL then informed Morses that those accounts would be returned to it. Recently Morses has 
explained to us that the recourse was done 12 April 2022 and so far as Morses is 
concerned it does not know why LL continued to contact Ms W in the way she has 
described. 
Ms W has said that she has made a complaint to LL, and as that would be a different and 
separate complaint with a different respondent business I can make no comment on it in this 
decision. Its not something I can address in a decision relating to a complaint about Morses. 
Ms W has asked that Morses does as follows: To remove everything off my credit file which was agreed in the final settlement and 
for some form of compensation due to the stress and anxiety this has caused me to 
continue to have
The loans 6 to 16 have now been removed from Ms Ws credit file, and I do consider it was 
wrong for Morses to fail to get the original redress offered correct from the beginning. But the 
£100 offered was a suitable sum. 
I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint, which means that the £100 offered in the original FRL to 
Ms W in September 2022 needs to be paid to her if she chooses to accept it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint, but I do endorse the offer in 
Morses Club PLC final response letter dated 6 September 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman