DRN-2853640
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the compensation National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) 
has offered to settle his complaint about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy taken out with a loan.  
What happened
Mr H took out a loan with NatWest in September 2006. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to cover the loan repayments should he be unable to work as a result of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The PPI premium was paid for by a single premium of £3,820 
and this was added to the amount he borrowed, so interest was charged on this at the loan 
rate.
In April 2007 Mr H made a claim on the policy which paid out a total of £9,694.08 towards 
the loan repayments.
In 2019 Mr H complained to NatWest that he had unfairly been charged interest on the PPI 
premium. He said it hadnt been made clear at the time of sale that the premium had been 
added to his loan with interest payable on it.
NatWest treated this as a PPI mis-sale complaint and upheld that the PPI was mis-sold. It 
worked out that the total cost for the PPI if all had run to term would have been £5,401.42. In 
2016, at the end of term of the loan a rebate of £77.21 had been applied to the loan, so the 
total cost of the PPI as part of the loan was £5,324.21. But Mr H had some financial 
difficulties after an illness and had only repaid £3,428.33 of the full PPI costs. It worked out 
the compensatory interest due on this amount was £62.91 before tax. 
However, as Mr H had made a claim which had paid out £9,694.08 this meant that the 
compensation due for the mis-sale was far less than the claim and so Mr H had had had no 
financial loss and nothing was due to be paid to him.
Mr H was unhappy as he said he should be paid the interest charged on the PPI premium as 
this had been charged unfairly. He likened it to unfair commission and profit share that the 
case of Plevin had identified as unfair and should be repaid. NatWest did not agree and so 
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said what NatWest had done in setting the claim amount against the PPI 
compensation amount was fair, and nothing was due to be paid to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest agreed to uphold Mr Hs complaint on the basis that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
and worked out the compensation that would be due for the mis-sale. 
When a business has mis-sold PPI, to puts things right, it must, as far as possible, put the 
consumer in the position they wouldve been in if they hadnt taken out the PPI. This is 
based on the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority. So the business calculates how much 
was paid in premiums and interest on those premiums for the costs of the PPI, and 
compensatory interest for any amounts out of pocket. 
In the circumstances of this case, Mr H made a claim on the policy shortly after taking it out. 
If Mr H is to be put back in the position he would have been without taking out the PPI, then 
he would never have been able to make a claim. So looking at this one way, he could be 
required to pay back the claim he was paid, just as NatWest should pay compensation, 
including the full costs of the mis-sold PPI. 
But that is not seen as fair on consumers to repay claims, so the approach taken is to set the 
amount of any claim paid against the amount of compensation due for the mis-sale. In this 
case the claim far exceeds what Mr H has paid for the PPI so nothing is due to him. 
Whatever way you work out the mis-sale compensation in this case, it does not come to 
more than the amount paid out to Mr H for the claim. The PPI premium amount added to the 
loan was £3,820 and the interest charged at the loan rate for this was £1,481.42. So if the 
loan was repaid in full, with the PPI included then Mr H would have paid £5,401.42 for the 
PPI costs, which is still far less than the claim amount paid to him.
Mr H has submitted that the interest charged on the PPI premium in his complaint should be 
treated differently and in the same way that excess commission and profit share is refunded. 
Where excess commission has been charged as part of the PPI premiums, it was 
determined in the court case of Plevin that any excess commission should be refunded if not 
disclosed at the time of the sale. Following this case, the Financial Conduct Authority 
produced rules that said any amount of commission over 50% of the PPI premium, that the 
consumer was not told about at the time of the sale was unfair and should be refunded. 
These rules and the Plevin case are specifically related to unfair commission and only apply 
when the sale of a PPI policy is not upheld as mis-sold. This court case and the rules are not 
applicable to Mr Hs case as NatWest has upheld that the PPI was mis-sold. If Mr H had not 
made a successful claim on the policy, then he would be getting the full compensation due, 
paid to him. The unfair commission rules only apply to excess commission and profit share 
and are not applicable to the interest element caused by PPI premiums.
Where the full costs information, including the amount of interest to be paid for the PPI, is 
not disclosed at the time of the sale of the PPI, this is one reason why PPI can be 
considered mis-sold. So in this complaint NatWest are upholding the complaint that the PPI 
was mis-sold and the approach to compensation is, as I have indicated above, to as far as 
possible put the consumer int the position they would have been if they had not bought the 
PPI. This means taking into account all the PPI costs, both premiums and interest, but also 
any claim that was paid out under the policy.
Therefore, I cannot see that NatWest has done anything wrong in the way it dealt with this 
mis-sale complaint and the compensation for that mis-sale. It found the PPI was mis-sold 
and worked out the appropriate compensation due in line with what we would expect. But it 
also then took into account how much was paid out in the claim to Mr H, which is fair. 
It follows that I think what NatWest has said about the compensation and there being no 
financial loss to Mr H in the particular circumstances of this complaint, is fair.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I think NatWest UK Plcs offer and what it has done with the 
compensation is fair and I am not directing any compensation is due to be paid to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman