DRN-3818690
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the service they got from Santander UK Plc when arranging 
a re-mortgage in December 2021.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M started a re-mortgage application on the 3 December 2021. The term of their 
existing interest only mortgage was entering its final years and they wanted to move onto a 
capital repayment mortgage, extend the term and get a new mortgage product as their 
existing five-year product was coming to an end. 
Mr and Mrs M stared an application for that on 3 December 2021 and in preparation for a 
discussion with a Santander adviser the following week they uploaded information relevant 
to their application. But they didnt receive a call and contacted Santander to understand 
why. Mr and Mrs M said they were told everything had been uploaded and another call was 
arranged for 14 December 2021.
Mr and Mrs M received a call on 14 December 2021, but the Santander adviser wasnt 
qualified to discuss the application and a further appointment was booked for 5 January 
2022 with a qualified adviser. This was at a time when the media was talking about 
increases in the Bank of England base rate. Mr and Mrs M also had a buy to let mortgage 
with another lender for a portfolio of five rental properties.
The application process then started on 5 January 2022 and Mr and Mrs M were advised at 
that time that mortgage statements and redemption statements for the buy to let mortgages 
were needed as the existing ones were out of date.  Mr and Mrs M understood that their buy 
to let lender could take up to 21 days to produce these although this was reduced to five 
days but at that stage they wee unhappy with the slow progress of their application.
Mr and Mrs M were concerned that interest rates were rising and asked if Santander would 
honour the rate of 1.22% five-year fixed rate that they say had been discussed in December 
2021. Santander said that couldnt be done, and that the application had to proceed on 
current interest rates. Mr and Mrs M complained and were offered £150 for the delays.
Mr and Mrs M decided that they didnt want to wait for their application to be underwritten as 
they were concerned it could take more than a month and because of that they chose to 
secure a new product for their existing mortgage with Santander. Mr and Mrs M chose a two-
year fixed rate at 1.44% on a non-advised basis and Santander issued a mortgage product 
offer for that.
Mr and Mrs M continued with the application to change the term, which Santander agreed to 
extend and to change the mortgage from interest-only to repayment. This was also agreed 
and a letter to that effect issued to Mr and Mrs M in early March 2022.. But Mr and Mrs M 
now find that they have only a two-year mortgage product when they originally wanted a five-
year product. Mr and Mrs M say that the £150 that has been offered is unacceptable and 
that theyre thousands of pounds worse off and will now need to go through the process 
again in two years time. Mr and Mrs M want Santander to admit their mistakes and 
compensate them properly.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that the 
compensation offered by Santander was reasonable and that it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Santander to change the mortgage to a five-year fixed rate as Mr and Mrs M chose to 
proceed with a two-year deal. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was entering is final years and Mr and Mrs M wanted to make 
changes to it, to extend and convert it to a capital repayment mortgage and get a fixed rate 
mortgage product. They had an existing five-year fixed rate mortgage product coming to an 
end in April 2022. The application began in December 2021 and a mortgage offer issued in 
March 2022. 
But in the meantime, Mr and Mrs M fixed their mortgage product for two years only in 
January 2022 because they were concerned about the delay in Santander dealing with the 
application and their fear of further delays by Santander exposing them to interest rate rises.. 
Santander has accepted there was a delay and a failure of its service when it arranged an 
appointment with an adviser in mid-December who wasnt qualified to handle the application 
and the application appointment had to be postponed until the beginning of January.
Santander has offered Mr and Mrs M £150 for the poor service, but Mr and Mrs M say that 
they suffered financial loss which is the fault of Santander and for which they should be 
compensated. 
My view on reading the underwriting notes is that apart from the initial delay it seems that the 
application was processed with reasonable speed and Santander seems to have considered 
the application fairly and in particular given fair consideration to what mortgage was 
affordable to Mr and Mrs M. In the end, Santander approved Mr and Mrs Ms application in 
early March.. 
The problem lies in that Mr and Mrs M, in early January 2022, chose to fix their interest rate 
going forward for a two-year term rather than wait for the applications outcome and a 
possible mortgage product with a five-year term. They did this because they couldnt yet fix 
an interest rate for five years as the term wasnt yet extended and were concerned at the 
possibility of rising interest rates and their concern at Santanders delay with the application. 
It should be said that choosing the two-year product was Mr and Mrs Ms own choice in the 
sense that it wasnt acting on the advice of Santander. I note that Mr and Mrs M refer to 
advices they receive from other parties and not from Santander on their financial affairs so 
its not a case of Mr and Mrs M getting the wrong advice from Santander. 
Mr and Mrs M wanted an extended mortgage with a five-year term on the mortgage product. 
But Mr and Mrs M couldnt get a five-year product until the term was extended. I understand 
that a rate of 1.44% was available on a five-year fix until 13 December 2021. But Mr and Mrs 
M couldnt have got that as the mortgage term didnt allow it. Thereafter a rate of 1.64% was 
available for a five-year term. I understand that Mr and Mrs M could have got that if they had 
waited but they denied themselves that opportunity because they had opted for a two-year 
fix. Mr and Mrs Ms position is that Santanders delay would have prevented them getting the 
five year fix they wanted. But thats incorrect as I understand the 1.64% interest rate would have been available to them had they applied for a five-year term when the mortgage term 
was extended. Any initial delay by Santander in fixing an appointment didnt deny them the 
opportunity to get that rate if they had waited. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Ms anxiety to get a fixed rate in anticipation of rising interest 
rates. But, for the reasons set out above I dont consider that it was the fault of Santander 
that the rate they chose was unsuitable. Santander hadnt recommended it and had they 
waited and allowed Santander to complete the application process they could have applied 
for the five-year fix that they wanted. I accept that there was a delay in Santander arranging 
an appointment with a suitable adviser, but my view is that the offer of £150 by Santander 
fairly compensates Mr and Mrs M for the distress and inconvenience caused by that. But, for 
the above reasons, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman