DRN-3151243
The complaint
Mr N complains that a vehicle he obtained through a Hire Agreement with ALD was 
mis sold to him  as it didnt come with a load liner or lockable lid . He would like 
compensation
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them 
again here instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons:-
From the documentation Ive seen including a brochure specification and 
signed customer order from ,I have no evidence to show that the vehicle Mr N 
took out an agreement for came with a load liner and lockable lid. On that 
basis I cant reasonably conclude that the vehicle was mis sold to him.
I appreciate Mr N says that without the load liner and lockable lid that he 
couldnt use the vehicle for business purposes. But I dont agree that ALD 
should have been aware of this. I think it was Mr Ns responsibility to ensure 
the vehicle suited his needs.
Mr N says that ALD didnt make him aware of his cancellation rights when he 
complained about the vehicle. I am not sure if ALD did or not but Information 
on cancellation was on the agreement Mr N signed. And details of early 
termination options were detailed on the terms and conditions. So, I think Mr 
N had that information. But I have no evidence to show he pursued either with 
ALD.
I do agree that ALD took too long to investigate Mr Ns complaint. We usually 
expect business to issue final responses within eight weeks or at least to 
advise consumers if they cant do so. It took ALD an excessive amount of time 
to deal with Mr Ns complaint and I have no evidence that during that time that 
it was in regular contact with him. I think the £150 compensation our 
investigator recommended is fair as the delay would undoubtedly have 
caused him distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint
In full and final settlement ALD Automotive Limited should pay Mr N £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience in the delay in dealing with his 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman