DRN-3391454
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) declined to provide the calculations they 
used when they provided an early settlement figure for his loan with them.
What happened
Mr B had a loan from Lloyds which was agreed and first drawn, subject to a written loan 
agreement, in January 2019. 
In July 2021, Mr B contacted Lloyds as he wanted to repay his loan early. He asked them to 
provide an early settlement figure. Lloyds sent Mr B an early settlement quote (ESQ) in 
writing on 23 July 2021. They said the amount required was valid until the settlement date of 
22 August 2021. Lloyds also said the early settlement rebate had been calculated in line with 
the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. They said the settlement date 
had been calculated in accordance with Regulation 3 of the Consumer Credit (Settlement 
Information) Regulations 1983.
Mr B repaid the bulk of the amount owed on 29 July 2021. But this meant there was a 
shortfall against the settlement figure provided by Lloyds. So, Mr Bs usual monthly loan 
repayment was collected by direct debit on 2 August 2021. 
Mr B contacted Lloyds in mid-August to complain. He didnt think the ESQ Lloyds had 
calculated was right. He wanted Lloyds to provide a mathematical equation to show how 
theyd reached the figure they had. Lloyds spoke to Mr B about his complaint and issued a 
written response. They said the interest applied when the ESQ was calculated was in line 
with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 and in accordance with Mr 
Bs Loan Agreement. Lloyds also said there was no requirement for them to divulge any 
internal calculations as this was business sensitive.
A final payment was then collected by direct debit on 1 September 2021 resulting in Mr Bs 
loan being fully repaid and closed.
Mr B wasnt happy with Lloyds response to his complaint. He didnt agree their calculations 
were commercially sensitive as there was a standard way of calculating the interest. He 
wanted to know whether hed been overcharged. So, Mr B decided to refer his complaint to 
this service.
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. Our investigator also explained that it wasnt this services role to check 
Lloyds calculations and suggested Mr B had the option to engage an actuary or auditor to 
check the calculations for him.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. He thought the calculation of interest was a 
contractual matter between a lender and borrower and wasnt commercially sensitive. He 
said he shouldnt have to pay an actuary or auditor to calculate the amount of interest 
charged.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The loan agreement between Mr B and Lloyds states at the top that its regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The CCA covers several areas of consumer credit, 
including the content and form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, 
termination and early settlement. In relation to early settlement, the CCA says that 
settlement figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. Those are the rules that Lloyds have explained they applied 
here.
In cases of early settlement, if the consumer decides to pay off all or part of a credit 
agreement before the end of the agreed term, they dont have to pay the full amount of 
interest detailed in the original agreement. Instead, the total amount of interest which 
wouldve been payable over the full term is reduced by a statutory rebate. Lloyds have 
confirmed that this rebate was applied when calculating the ESQ for Mr B. 
Having requested an ESQ, it appears Mr B didnt repay the full amount Lloyds had quoted by 
the settlement date specified. So, this wouldve impacted the remaining balance owed as 
there may be more interest to be applied. 
When Mr B first took out his loan, Lloyds wouldve calculated the total interest payable over 
the originally agreed term. Theyd then add that to the amount borrowed in order to calculate 
the required monthly repayment. This is because Mr Bs monthly repayment needed to cover 
both the amount owed and the interest. It would also ensure Mr Bs loan repayment would 
be the same every month. But the loan interest is actually calculated daily according to the 
amount owed at the time. Lloyds then applied the interest to Mr Bs loan each month. This is 
explained in section 2 of the Loan Agreement signed by Mr B and Lloyds.
When Lloyds calculated the ESQ, the figure included a projection of up to 58 days interest. 
This is covered in section 4.2 of the loan agreement and meets the requirements of the 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. But that interest is a projection and is 
not immediately applied to the loan. That only happens once Lloyds receive the ESQ amount 
from Mr B. Because Mr B didnt pay the full amount of the ESQ until after the settlement 
date, it may have changed the amount of interest calculated.
Our investigator said that it wasnt for our service to check the ESQ calculations. I agree with 
our investigator on this point. Lloyds have confirmed the regulations theyve applied, and this 
information is publicly available. In completing my review of Mr Bs complaint, Ive not found 
anything to suggest Lloyds calculations were completed incorrectly. And because of this, 
Ive not been persuaded that Lloyds have treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably. However, 
as the formula for calculating ESQs is available on the legislation.gov.uk website, Mr B has 
the option to refer to that, should he wish.
I do appreciate that Mr B may be disappointed. But based upon my findings above, I cant 
reasonably say that Lloyds have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman