DRN-4299486
The complaint
Miss I complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc provided her with car finance that she 
couldnt afford to repay. She believes it acted irresponsibly in approving the finance.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss I entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander to buy a 
car from E, a car dealer. E also acted in a credit broking capacity to arrange the finance. At 
around the same time, she also entered into a finance agreement with a different provider to 
acquire another car, again through E, which is the subject of a separate complaint to our 
service.
As I understand it, Miss I had agreed with other parties (Ill call them B) to acquire the cars 
in her name, and that B would then sub-lease the cars to someone else. The arrangements 
unravelled fairly quickly and Santander took possession of the car it had financed.
Santander instigated legal action against Miss I, and she in turn issued a counterclaim 
disputing liability. According to the legal papers, Miss Is counterclaim was founded on 
(among other things) her having been the victim of a scam and on Santanders failure to 
undertake appropriate checks when it agreed to the finance. The legal proceedings were 
closed under an agreement reached between the parties and ratified by a consent order 
issued by the court.
More recently, Miss I has brought her concerns to us, citing the significant difficulty shes 
experienced in repaying Santander, the legal costs and other charges shes incurred as a 
result of entering into the arrangements.
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded Santander had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before approving the lending. But he didnt think that this would have affected 
Santanders decision to lend. He noted Miss I had entered into the settlement agreement 
under which she would (and did) pay a monthly amount over and above the amount required 
under the credit agreement. He didnt think it appropriate to uphold the complaint.
Miss I didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. She submitted further evidence in 
respect of her monthly income and expenditure, which she felt demonstrated that approving 
the lending had caused her financial hardship. Miss I said shed only been able to meet the 
payments by borrowing from friends, and that she only settled the legal proceedings 
because she couldnt afford to continue with them. Shes asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the points Miss I has sought to make, and I have sympathy with the 
circumstances she found herself in, having perhaps entered into the contract without a full 
understanding of the implications of doing so. Having seen evidence of her financial 
circumstances I dont dispute that on the basis of these alone, the repayments under the 
credit agreement would likely have had a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation, contrary to relevant provisions in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)1.
But that isnt the only consideration. CONC also says that a firm can also take account of 
income received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another 
person in so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to 
make repayments under the agreement2. Miss I was expecting to receive such income from 
the arrangements she had with B; indeed, her submissions state that this was her purpose in 
entering into the agreements in the first place.
So it might have been reasonable for Santander to take this additional income into account 
when assessing the credit application, even if it failed to undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks3. As our investigator noted, it doesnt necessarily follow that a failure to 
undertake such checks means the lending should be deemed unaffordable.
There is a counter to that argument, which is that the credit agreement expressly excluded 
the sub-leasing arrangements that would have provided that income. That might make any 
decision to take such income into account unreasonable.
Further, given the provisions of section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, any discussions 
Miss I had about those arrangements with E would be deemed to have been conducted with 
Santander. Santander might not have lent if the known purpose of doing so ran contrary to 
the credit agreement. Or Santander might simply have removed the sub-leasing and other 
associated conditions from the agreement. Its not for me to speculate here on this point, 
however, given Miss Is evidence is that she was not involved in the discussions with E at all.
While Ive thought about the situation carefully, there is another factor that I need to take into 
account, which has a significant bearing on what is, in all the circumstances, fair and 
reasonable. That is the issue mentioned by our investigator; the fact that Miss I made an 
agreement with Santander, ratified by means of a consent or Tomlin order issued by the 
court, in relation to matters that included the arguments that appear to form the basis of her 
current complaint.
While the order includes a clause permitting disclosure of its terms where such disclosure is 
in regard to alleged misconduct, wrongdoing or serious breach of regulatory requirements, 
that doesnt mean I can interfere with the agreement reached between the parties. Indeed, I 
dont believe I have power to do so. Such an agreement can only be set aside by order of 
the court, and in limited circumstances.
With this in mind, Im afraid Im again going to disappoint Miss I when I say that Im not going 
to order Santander to reimburse or compensate her. I cant see how I can fairly do so when 
she has entered into a contractual agreement which was clearly intended to compromise the 
substantive dispute between the parties. That is the view I must take, irrespective of the 
reasons Miss I gave for entering into it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I cant uphold this complaint.
1 The relevant provision referenced here is CONC 5.2A.12(5)R. The full CONC sourcebook can be 
found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, available on the FCAs website
2 see CONC 5.2A.12(2)R
3 see CONC 5.2A.20R and relevant guidance in CONC 5.2A.21-25(G)Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman