DRN-2749115
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the exchange rate Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) used 
when it converted euros received into her bank account into sterling.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs D closed a bank account shed held abroad while working outside of the 
UK. The closing balance was transferred across in euros before being converted into pound 
sterling by Halifax. 
Mrs D was disappointed to find the amount she received into her Halifax account was lower 
than she expected. She complained to Halifax about the exchange rate it had used.
 
Halifax said the exchange rate was set by its treasury team first thing in the morning. It uses 
a bank to bank agreement rate. It said the rate it had used was correct for that day and the 
amount being sent.
Mrs D remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. He explained 
that different financial institutions use different exchange rates. He thought Halifax had 
treated Mrs D fairly and the exchange rate it had used was reasonable.
Mrs D disagreed with our investigators view. She said she didnt think Halifax should have 
tried to make a profit out of her situation. She felt it would be fair for Halifax to use the 
market exchange rate and charge a fee for the transaction. She acknowledged that Halifax 
couldnt discuss the exchange rate with her when receiving the money but thought it should 
have reconsidered the rate after shed complained. So, her complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
There isnt a single exchange rate for a currency that banks must track or replicate because 
each bank sets its own exchange rate, which is based on market conditions. So, exchange 
rates can differ from bank to bank. 
The terms and conditions that apply to Mrs Ds account make it clear that Halifax will convert 
payments received in a foreign currency into pounds using its standard exchange rate. They 
also say that a customer can find out the current exchange rate by calling Halifax, although 
the rate may change by the time the payment is received. 
So, Im satisfied that Halifax gives its customers clear information letting them know that it 
will use its own exchange rate to convert foreign currency into sterling.
 
Halifax says it used an exchange rate of 1.1656 to convert 8,048 euro to £6,905. It says the 
interbank rate at the time the money was transferred into Mrs Ds account was 1.12564. And 
its sent screenshots from its website to show that in March 2020 the maximum margin for 
payments up to £25,000 was 3.55%. This is the same information Mrs D was given when 
she phoned Halifax a few days after the transaction. So, Im persuaded that Halifax has 
acted in line with the terms of Mrs Ds account in applying the exchange rate it did. 
I appreciate that Mrs D feels shes lost out on a large amount of money as a result of the 
exchange rate Halifax has used. But its common practice within the industry for a banks 
exchange rate to include a margin. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs D. But overall, Im satisfied that Halifax has 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman