DRN-1550717
 The complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
 What happened
In December 1998 Mrs M took out a store card  without PPI. In August 2000, PPI was 
added to her account following a telephone call.
The policy protected Mrs Ms store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. The policy 
also provided some other cover as well but Im concentrating in my decision on the PPI part 
of the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M disagreed. She mainly said that she 
remembered being offered the store card whilst out shopping, but she had no recollection of 
PPI ever being mentioned. She told us that PPI must have been added on without her 
consent as she wouldnt ever have agreed to it. Mrs M also said that she had other means 
she couldve relied on to make her store card monthly repayments if necessary and she 
didnt need PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what happened I have to 
look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Mrs M to remember exactly what mightve happened so many years ago  its unsurprising, 
and completely understandable, that Mrs M told us she didn't recall PPI ever being 
mentioned. But I cant uphold this complaint just based on what Mrs M says.  
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont know exactly what it may have said to Mrs M when the policy was sold. But based 
on what this service knows about the sales process, and given that PPI was added well over 
a year after shed made her store card application, I think Mrs M wouldve understood the 
policy was optional. On balance, I think its more likely that after hearing it described, Mrs M 
felt that PPI could be of some value to her and she wanted the benefits it offered. So she 
chose to take it out.  
I dont think AXA advised Mrs M to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs M with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. Looking at the likely policy document that covered her, Mrs M was eligible for the policy and 
it doesnt appear to me very likely that she would've been affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations which couldve made it difficult for her to make a claim. 
The policy covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding balance was 
cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work because of accident, sickness or unexpected 
unemployment. 
She told us she was self-employed and I can see that the policy did cover people who were 
self employed. 
Mrs M says she couldve relied on her savings and investments if she had needed to. But 
she hasnt sent me any information to show how much she had in savings  and I dont know 
if Mrs M wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make a claim. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs M told us she had properties, as well as a car and jewellery 
that she couldve sold if necessary. But having PPI meant that she wasnt at risk of having to 
sell her properties or personal possessions to pay her store card if she couldnt work  
bearing in mind also that she mightnt have been able to get as much money as she hoped 
for in the event of a forced sale. So, I still think the policy offered her a useful benefit and I 
can understand why someone in her position mightve taken out the policy  even though 
she didnt have to. 
Mrs M also mentioned some other insurance  but I havent been sent any details. So I dont 
know if the other policies provided like for like cover and I cant fairly say that I've seen 
enough to be able to uphold her mis-selling complaint.
There were some things the policy didnt cover. Mrs M told us about a medical condition 
shed had at the time she took out her card. But, although the condition mightve been 
excluded under the policy, Mrs M also said she had medication to manage her condition. 
And when we asked, she didnt say it was a condition that shed ever had to take time off 
work for. So I think its unlikely that Mrs M wouldve expected to claim under the policy for 
this condition. Or that she would have been put off taking out the policy because of it. So this 
information doesnt change my decision. And it doesnt look like any of the other policy 
limitations or exclusions wouldve affected Mrs M. So I dont think having more information 
about the policy terms wouldve put her off taking out the PPI.
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs M to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if Mrs 
M had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought the policy 
potentially useful. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for Mrs 
M.  
Looked at overall, even if there were shortcomings in the way AXA sold the policy to Mrs M, 
I dont find that Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong. So it doesnt 
need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
  
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman