DRN-4246536
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined to offer them a buy to let 
mortgage and wasted their time in the process. Mr A sent an invoice to Barclays for £600 for 
his time. Mr A has dealt with the complaint.
What happened
Mr A contacted Barclays on 1 December 2022 about taking out a buy to let mortgage. 
Barclays said Mr and Mrs A didnt meet its minimum income threshold and there was no 
point in them starting an application. Mr A disagreed and Barclays agreed they could meet 
with a mortgage adviser, to see what help and support it could offer. The mortgage adviser 
reviewed Mr and Mrs As income on 5 December 2022 and said they didnt meet the 
minimum income threshold and the application couldnt proceed.
Mr A says they were misled by Barclays that it was desperate to release a mortgage and 
this resulted in them wasting five days. He says during this time they missed out on 
opportunities with other lenders before rates increased. 
Our investigator said Barclays hadnt treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly.
Mr A didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. While Im required to explain why I reach my 
decision I dont have to comment on each point made by Mr A.
Mr A contacted Barclays on 1 December 2022 about taking out a buy to let mortgage. 
Barclays asked for information to check Mr and Mrs A met its basic criteria. Mr and Mrs A 
didnt meet its minimum income threshold. Barclays said there was no point in them 
proceeding with an appointment with a mortgage adviser. It told Mr A the minimum income 
threshold for a buy to let mortgage was an inflexible criteria that couldnt be changed. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this. He said this was unacceptable, given their long-standing 
relationship with Barclays, equity in their residential property and their solid financial position. 
Mr A continued with the call, as he wanted to discuss what mortgage products were 
available. The call handler said theyd contact the premier banking team on behalf of Mr A. 
Mr A spoke to Barclays premier banking team on 2 and 3 December 2022. He said he didnt 
agree with the minimum income threshold and wanted to know how Barclays could help 
them proceed. Barclays again explained the minimum income criteria, but said Mr and Mrs A 
could have an appointment with a mortgage adviser to review their income to see if it could 
help and support them. It said they had to upload information about their income before the 
appointment. Mr A said he wanted to proceed and an appointment was made for 6 
December 2022.
On 5 December 2022 Barclays mortgage adviser called Mr A to remind him to upload the 
documents. She said she needed to check his income etc to check that the application was 
do-able. She said that if it was do-able Mr A might be speaking to a colleague. This was 
because they all needed to have appointments observed and her colleague was desperate 
for a buy to let customer. 
Mr A says he was told Barclays was desperate to offer them a buy to let mortgage and he 
was left in no doubt that Barclays would confirm a mortgage offer later that day. Ive listened 
carefully to a recording of the call and I dont agree that Mr A was told this or that this was a 
reasonable inference from the conversation.
Barclays mortgage adviser called Mr A later that day and said Barclays couldnt proceed 
with their application as they didnt meet its minimum income threshold for a buy to let 
mortgage. The mortgage adviser said shed checked with colleagues and the minimum 
income threshold had never been overturned. She said all she could do for Mr A was raise a 
complaint.
I dont think Barclays treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly.
Barclays made it clear from the first call that Mr and Mrs A didnt meet its minimum income 
threshold. It also made it clear this was a hard and fast rule and wasnt flexible. 
Given Mr As strong disagreement with what he was told on 1 December 2022, I think it was 
fair for Barclays to agree that a mortgage adviser would review Mr and Mrs As income to 
see what help and support it could offer. It made Mr A aware it would need income 
information and hed have to attend an appointment, so he knew this would take up some of 
his time. Barclays gave no guarantees it would offer Mr and Mrs A a mortgage  in fact it told 
Mr A several times they didnt meet its minimum income threshold. It was Mr As choice to 
proceed despite this.
Mr A contacted Barclays on 1 December 2022 and was told the application couldnt proceed 
on 5 December 2022 (two working days later). I dont think its fair to say that there were any 
unnecessary delays by Barclays in dealing with this matter.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs A 
for their time.
Mr A said all other re-mortgage opportunities with other lenders were lost between 1 and 6 
December 2022 due to an interest rate rise. The evidence Mr A provided didnt demonstrate 
that they had opportunities that were lost during this period. Even if Mr A had provided such 
evidence, its unlikely Id have found it fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay 
compensation. As I said, I dont think Barclays treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly. And it was 
Mr As own choice to continue with Barclays instead of pursuing the opportunities he says he 
had with other lenders. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, which means it isnt something we can look 
into. We can sometimes look into how a complaint was dealt with  for instance if this 
caused difficulties with the underlying problem being sorted out. That wasnt the case here. 
Barclays had told Mr A the buy to let mortgage application couldnt proceed before the 
complaint was raised. So while Mr A is unhappy with the way Barclays dealt with the 
complaint, thats not something that I can consider here. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman