DRN-2092779
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the delay Aviva Insurance Limited caused when dealing with a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy following a fire. 
What happened
Mr Js home was damaged by fire in August 2019. He made a claim to his insurer, Aviva. 
Aviva instructed a loss adjuster to visit Mr Js home. 
Mr J said that initially he was happy with the prompt handling of his claim. However in 
February 2020 he complained to Aviva. He was unhappy with the lack of progress and that 
Aviva intended to settle his claim by using the lowest of the tenders received from 
contractors to carry out the works. 
Mr J spent some time communicating with Aviva explaining why he didnt think the lowest  
or the highest tender  was accurate. He asked his preferred contractor for their 
reinstatement works estimate which he sent to Aviva. Mr J wanted to use his preferred 
contractor as he intended to have additional private work take place alongside the 
reinstatement works. In May 2020 Aviva agreed to settle the claim for building works for a 
cash settlement. This was for £14,000 more than the contractors tender it initially intended 
to use. 
Mr J contacted us in February 2020 as he was unhappy with the delay and the way Aviva 
was handling his complaint. 
Our investigator understood there were two periods of delay. The first was from October 
2019 to January 2020 when the loss adjuster obtained tenders from four contractors in 
relation to the works. The investigator thought this period was reasonable due to the 
complexity of the claim and the damage and reinstatements works needed. 
She recognised that there was a second period of delay: from February 2020 to May 2020 
when Mr J disagreed with Avivas decision to proceed with the lowest tender. The 
investigator felt this delay could have been avoided had the loss adjuster acted sooner in 
responding to valid points raised by Mr J. 
Mr J believes he and his family would have been back home by now but for the delay. And 
the delay has been compounded by the impact of COVID 19. The investigator recommended 
Aviva pay Mr J compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience its delay caused. 
She explained that she couldnt consider the delay caused by COVID 19 as this was outside 
of Avivas control. 
Aviva accepted the investigators findings. Mr J didnt agree. He said we havent properly 
considered that it took the loss adjuster five months to provide their planning report with 
proposals to resolve the claim. Mr J said he received little or no updates from Aviva or the 
loss adjuster during this time. 
Mr J said Aviva told him at the start of the claim to expect to be back home within nine 
months and he had no reason not to believe this. He said Aviva tried to persuade him not to 
raise a complaint and their handling caused further stress and anxiety to him and his wife. 
Mr J doesnt feel that £200 compensation is enough to reflect the impact Avivas handling of 
the claim. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A loss adjuster visited Mr Js home on 4 September 2019, just over three weeks after the 
fire. It then took a further five weeks for the loss adjuster to arrange for a surveyor to inspect 
Mr Js home  and then a further 8 weeks to submit a Schedule of Works (SOW) report. 
Mr J believes the length of time take by the loss adjuster here was excessive. 
I can understand Mr Js frustration. Claims of this nature are more complex in assessing the 
costs and the required works. And it takes time to arrange and process tenders from third 
party contractors. Inevitably this means that claims of this nature can take longer to settle. 
On balance, I dont think there was an unreasonable delay between the date of the claim 
and the date the surveyor provided their repair planning report.
The second period of delay was I think avoidable. Its clear that the tender Aviva intended to 
rely on was not based on all of the works being completed. Aviva agreed to settle the claim 
for a sum £14,000 more than the original intended tender - because Mr J had to take the 
time to research and detail gaps he identified in the cheapest tender. I think this was 
something the loss adjuster should have done much sooner when deciding which of the 
contractors estimates to rely on. 
Mr J said that although nobody was hurt, they lost almost all of their personal possessions in 
the fire. He said the impact of having to deal with the claim in addition to this has caused him 
and his wife considerable stress.
Ive no doubt that having to deal with the impact of the fire, having to move out of their home 
and deal with the claim has caused considerable upheaval and distress. 
Ive considered the actions of Aviva as the insurer dealing with the claim and the impact of 
their handling. I cant safely conclude that had Aviva been more proactive in its handling of 
the claim that Mr J and his family would have been back in their home by now. According to 
the surveyors repair planning report dated 13 January 2020, the contractors estimated 
between 12 and 17 weeks to complete the reinstatement works with a potential start date of 
27 January 2020. However, following this report Mr J wanted his preferred contractor to be 
considered as he wanted additional private work to be carried out. So this meant his claim 
wouldnt be settled by way of a reinstatement works, but a cash settlement.
But I think Aviva and the loss adjuster are responsible for causing distress and 
inconvenience to Mr J between February and May 2020. It seems the tender being relied on 
was inaccurate and far too low to fairly settle Mr Js claim. This took three months for Aviva 
to agree a fair settlement. 
Had this delay not happened, I think its possible that the reinstatement works would have 
been completed between May and June 2020. This is within the range Aviva gave Mr J at the beginning of the claim. However, outside of Avivas control has been the inevitable 
impact of COVID 19 on works being carried out. 
I understand Mr J feels £200 compensation isnt enough. He said he has to continue to pay 
for alternative accommodation costs following the cash settlement of the claim and the £200 
doesnt reflect this. But I think its a reasonable amount for the delay of three months and is 
in line with sums we award in cases similar to Mr Js.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mr J £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused in its handling 
of his claim between February and May 2020. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman