DRN-2579360
The complaint
Mr C says American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has caused delays to the repair 
of his mobile home under his leisure home insurance policy. He wants his claim paid and his 
ground rent reimbursed as hes been unable to use his mobile home. 
Mr C has a representative. But as the insurance policy is his, Ill refer to him only.
I understand Mr Cs also unhappy about the renewal price of his policy. But it doesnt seem 
AIG has looked into this. So Ive considered his complaint about the delays only. 
  
What happened
Mr C has a leisure home insurance policy with AIG which renewed in November 2018 to 
cover his mobile home. In March 2019, he discovered a leak of water in the bathroom area 
after he noticed the flooring was spongy. So he contacted AIG to make a claim on his policy. 
A few days later, the loss adjuster visited Mr Cs mobile home and on the basis of their 
report, AIG agreed to cover the claim. AIG has said the loss adjuster arranged for 
contractors to repair the damage caused but as they werent available until May 2019, Mr C 
didnt want to go ahead with them. Its said Mr C agreed to find a local contractor instead. 
AIG has given us its internal contact notes. From May 2019 until around August 2019, the 
loss adjuster told AIG they were waiting on Mr C finding a contractor. In June 2019 a 
contractor visited the property but suggested replacing one unit only which wouldnt have 
matched the existing units. So Mr C didnt go ahead with that contractor. Following this, Mr C 
was in touch with AIG a few times to say he was struggling to find someone to do the work.
Around September 2019 the loss adjuster told AIG it had sent a letter to Mr C threatening to 
close the file if they didnt receive a quote from him. And their final report was sent to AIG the 
following month saying the file had been closed. Mr C let AIG know in November 2019 he 
wanted it reopened but he was still struggling to find a contractor.
Mr C made a complaint in June 2019 about the delays and lack of contact hed experienced. 
AIG offered him £50 to make up for the service hed received but highlighted it was waiting 
for a quote from him. Unhappy with the lack of progress made, in November 2019 Mr C 
asked our service to look into things for him. Our investigator said there were unnecessary 
delays caused by AIG until June 2019. So he thought AIG should increase its offer of 
compensation to £150. But he didnt think it should cover the ground rent. He also directed 
AIG to either arrange for the repairs to be completed or pay Mr C the amount it would cost 
without receiving a quote.
AIG didnt agree with the investigators opinion. It said the policy only covers the cost of 
repairs  not arranging repairs for customers. And it thinks its reasonable for Mr C to 
evidence the repair cost as otherwise it wouldnt know how much to pay. It didnt think it had 
caused the delays as it had been waiting for Mr C to provide quotes. Our investigator didnt 
change his opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
covering the claim
Our investigator has suggested AIG should pay the claim without Mr C obtaining a quote 
first. Or it should arrange for the work to be carried out itself. AIG hasnt agreed to either of 
these suggestions but I think it would be the fair outcome in this case. Ill explain why.
Mr C has struggled to obtain a quote because of the specialist nature of the work  and I can 
see AIG recognises that would be a problem for this type of repair. Indeed, it clearly 
struggled to gain a specialist repairer itself during the early stages of the claim when its loss 
adjuster was looking to get the mobile home repaired. And Mr C got frustrated with the delay 
and tried to source a repairer himself.
I understand AIG has said it needs a quote from a contractor arranged by Mr C  so it knows 
how much the repairs will cost. And it says without this, it wont know how much the work will 
cost. But around the time Mr C initially made the claim, AIG arranged a loss adjuster to 
review the work  and it recommended a reserve amount based on how much the work was 
likely to cost. It also appointed a repairer who couldnt do the work immediately but put a 
quote together on the likely cost of the work. So I think it has some idea of the likely amount 
it wouldve cost to repair the mobile home when the claim was first made and it can work 
from this figure now. 
I can see from the internal notes, around June 2019 AIG considered paying Mr C a cash-in-
lieu of repairs payment considering the challenge of arranging a repairer that would satisfy 
all parties. But it didnt go ahead with this at the time. From what Ive seen in this case, I 
think that would be the most reasonable solution  and I dont think its fair in this case for 
AIG to refuse to do anything when it is aware of the likely cost of repair and it considered 
settling the claim previously.
AIG has said under the terms of its policy, its only required to pay the cost of the claim  and 
not arrange the repairs for the customer. So it also didnt agree with our investigators 
suggestion that it could arrange to fix the mobile home itself. And whilst that might usually be 
the case, I understand when Mr C first made the claim, AIG initially arranged repairs itself as 
it thought it might be difficult for Mr C to do himself due to the specialist nature of the work. 
So I dont think it would be fair in this case for AIG to refuse to do what it was initially 
planning to do, particularly as Mr C has found it very difficult to find a suitable repairer.
Delays and ground rent
Turning to the delays I agree that the matter has been drawn out and been delayed. And 
while I can see that some of this is understandable, given the specialist nature of the repair, I 
agree that £150, as opposed to the £50 AIG offered seems fair.I understand Mr C thinks AIG should cover his ground rent as he was unable to use the 
mobile home from March 2019. But the terms and conditions of the policy say where the 
home isnt the main residence of the policyholder, the insurance doesnt cover any ground 
rent which continues to be payable. So I dont think this is covered by the policy and some of 
the delays were caused by the general difficulty to repair the mobile home as opposed to 
being caused by AIG.
In any event, from what Ive seen so far, it seems to me ground rent is payable to cover the 
cost of keeping a mobile home at the site. And whilst its unfortunate Mr Cs not been able to 
use his property, I think he still wouldve needed to keep it somewhere  and pay to do so  
whether he was using it or not. 
So I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for AIG to pay Mr C a cash in lieu payment in line with its original estimation of repairs or to 
repair the mobile home itself. And to pay Mr C £150 compensation.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I uphold this complaint. I require American 
International Group UK Limited to pay Mr C a cash in lieu payment or to repair his mobile 
home. And pay him £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman