DRN-3350403
The complaint
Miss M believes Black Horse Limited acted irresponsibly by approving a hire purchase 
agreement shed applied for.
What happened
On 14 March 2019, Miss M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse. She paid a deposit of £5,500 and the agreement was for £11,634 over 48 
months, with 47 monthly payments of £199.97, and a final payment of £6,709 if Miss M 
wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement. The agreement included an extended 
warranty and GAP insurance.
Miss M has complained Black Horse didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. She 
said she was self employed with a sporadic income and high travel costs. So, she didnt 
think Black Horse had carried out reasonable checks to ensure the payments were 
affordable.
Black Horse thought theyd acted reasonably when they approved the finance Miss M had 
applied for. Miss M wasnt happy with this, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator thought Black Horse had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
when they assessed Miss Ms application. And she thought Black Horse had made a fair 
decision by approving the finance. So, she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the dealership who supplied the car 
failed to pass on information to Black Horse, and she didnt think theyd asked her 
appropriate questions  she didnt think it was her responsibility to volunteer private 
information. She also provided screen shots of a loan shed recently applied for with a 
different lender, and the result was they were unlikely to approve this loan.
Miss M also disputed that her declared income figure was supported by the information 
Black Horse had available to them. And she considers Black Horse shouldve taken the final 
payment into consideration when approving the finance.
Miss M has said that the guidelines set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) arent clear 
as to what can be used to conduct an affordability check. And because Black Horse didnt 
ask her for a payslip, she believes this shows an affordability check wasnt done, as it wasnt 
reasonable for Black Horse to rely on alternative checks given her age, occupation, and 
declared income.
Because Miss M didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Black Horse make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss M 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Black Horse didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss 
Ms application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Black Horse have confirmed that, as part of their application process, they conduct an 
affordability assessment. To do this they electronically verify the income and deduct any 
housing costs, existing credit commitments, essential living costs, and any other material 
expenditure declared by the applicant. From this, they calculate the customers disposable 
income to see if the applied for lending is affordable.
It's not my role to tell Black Horse what specific processes they must have in place. And this 
is something Black Horse would be in conjunction with their regulator, the FCA. Black Horse 
have confirmed that their process complies with the guidelines laid down by the FCA.
The application Black Horse received has a declared income of £50,000, from which they 
calculated a net monthly income of £3,084. Miss M had declared a monthly rental payment 
of £600, and Black Horse calculated her essential living costs to be £438. She had no other 
regular credit commitment payments. Which gave her a disposable income of £2,046. Black 
Horse determined this was sufficient for Miss M to make their monthly payment of £199.97, 
and still have sufficient remaining to cover any discretionary expenses she may have.
So, based on the checks theyd done, Black Horse said that Miss M had passed their lending 
criteria and the finance was deemed to be affordable.
Given the amount of credit, the monthly repayments, and the term; Im satisfied that Black 
Horse completed reasonable and proportionate checks.
Did Black Horse make a fair lending decision?
Ive seen a copy of Miss Ms credit file from 9 April 2021. This contains historic data and 
shows what Black Horse wouldve seen when they made their lending decision.The credit file shows that, in March 2019, Miss M had a single credit card and no loans or 
revolving credit. At the time of the application, Miss Ms credit card, which had a £7,500 limit, 
didnt have any outstanding balance. And the highest outstanding balance in the previous 
12-months was £466, with all payments being made on time. The credit file also shows Miss 
M had a current account that hadnt been overdrawn.
In addition, the credit file shows that Miss M took two further loans  in September 2019 and 
May 2020  with a combined payment of £360 a month. While I appreciate that these loans 
will have an effect on Miss Ms finances, as they werent taken out until after the Black Horse 
loan, I wont be taking these into consideration. 
Miss M has confirmed that, up until September 2019, a parent who lives with her contributed 
half of the £1,250 monthly rent payments on their joint tenancy agreement. Shes also 
confirmed that she receives an income from her own limited company, from her self-
employment, and from her non-UK earnings.
Miss M has provided bank statements for the period 6 November 2018 to 5 March 2019, the 
period just before the finance was approved. Not that I think they should because they 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, but if Black Horse had asked Miss M for 
more information about her income and expenditure, then Im satisfied the bank statements 
give a reasonable reflection of what they wouldve found.
The banks statements show Miss M received a £1,500 a month income from her own limited 
company and had additional sporadic credits to her account averaging £1,285 a month. 
Which gives her a monthly income of £2,785, slightly less than Black Horse have calculated. 
The bank statements also show the rent contribution from her parent being received, and 
theres no indication of any additional or undeclared credit commitments. So, based on the 
slightly lower income, and slightly higher rent payment, Miss M would still be left with a 
disposable income of £1,722 as month, which is more than sufficient to support the £199.97 
payment to Black Horse and any other discretionary expenditure she may have.
Given this, Im satisfied that Black Horse made a fair lending decision.
Miss M has provided her income rax return for 2018/19, which shows that she received an 
income of £8,400 from her limited company, and that she also received £2,013 from her non-
UK earnings. However, once shed accounted for her expenditure, especially her travelling 
expenses, Miss M declared a loss on her self-employed income of £19,725. However, this 
isnt reflected by the bank statements Miss M has provided, referred to above.
Miss M has also provided a breakdown of her income and expenditure for the period March 
2019 to February 2021. This shows that Miss Ms income for this two-year period was 
£54,379  around half of what was declared to Black Horse. Miss Ms income was heavily 
affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic during this period, as her line of work was 
one that couldnt continue during government measures to control the pandemic. Miss M has 
also confirmed that she took a rent holiday during the pandemic, and the rent has now 
increased to £1,510 a month.
Taking all of this into consideration, along with the additional loans shes taken and that her 
parent is no longer able to contribute towards the increased rent, its clear that Miss M is in a 
different financial position to where she was when she applied for the finance with Black 
Horse. And this may explain why shes currently unlikely to get a loan with another provider.
But the pandemic was an unforeseen circumstance, so I wouldnt expect Black Horse to 
have taken this into consideration when looking at long-term affordability.Whats more, Im satisfied it was clear on the agreement that there was a large final payment 
Miss M would have to pay if she wanted to keep the car. But, as this was an optional 
payment and not a requited one, I wouldnt expect Black Horse to factor this into their 
affordability calculations. So, I dont think Black Horse have done anything wrong.
Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Black Horse acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Black Horse 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman