DRN-4234963
The complaint
Mr K complains that West Bay Insurance Plc caused confusion about his claim on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants compensation for his trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr K made a claim on his policy, and he said his broker was handling his claim. But West 
Bays agent said it was handling the claim and it wanted to charge Mr K his policy excess. 
Mr K was unhappy with this. West Bay agreed that it had caused Mr K confusion and it 
offered him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. But Mr K remained 
unhappy. He was also unhappy that he was told to call a premium number and his data had 
been shared.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy excess should be paid if Mr K made a claim on his policy. He thought there had been 
confusion, but he thought West Bays offer of compensation was fair and reasonable for the 
trouble and upset caused. He couldnt consider the data sharing concern as West Bay hadnt 
investigated this. He explained that it isnt our role to punish businesses. 
Mr K replied that he thought it was unfair that he, as the innocent party, was asked to pay his 
policy excess. He thought West Bay should have better explained his options. Mr K thought 
£100 wasnt sufficient compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the problem arose after Mr K was involved in an accident that wasnt his fault. 
He arranged for the repairs to be dealt with by his broker. When West Bay was notified 
about the accident two weeks later, it wasnt told about this arrangement. And so it opened a 
claim and instructed repairs by a different approved repairer and hire company. 
So Mr K was contacted by two repairers and asked to call the hire company when this wasnt 
necessary or wanted. West Bay also wrote to him asking him to pay his policy excess when 
he wasnt making a claim through his policy. I can understand that Mr K found this to be 
frustrating and he had to take time to sort this out. 
When a business makes a mistake, as West Bay accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that West Bay closed the claim and recorded it as for notification only with No 
Claims Discount (NCD) allowed. And Mr K wasnt required to pay his policy excess. So I 
think that restores Mr Ks position to what it should have been without the errors. 
Mr K also complained that he was asked to call a premium line number, and this cost him 
£9.00 and that his data was shared with other businesses. But I cant consider these points 
here as Mr K would first need to complain to West Bay and give it a chance to respond. 
Mr K was unhappy that he had been asked to pay his policy excess when the accident 
wasnt his fault. But Im satisfied that his policys terms and conditions state that the policy 
excess is payable in the case of all claims. This is standard industry practice, and I cant say 
that this is unreasonable. The policy excess is an uninsured loss and West Bay explained 
that it could be recovered from the other drivers insurer. So I dont think it did anything 
wrong in this. 
Mr K thought West Bay should also have explained his options. But West Bay isnt obliged to 
explain to Mr K the alternatives to claiming on his policy. If Mr K thought he was given 
insufficient information then he can always complain to West Bay about this.  
Mr K thought we should punish West Bay for its errors. But thats not our role. Nor do we tell 
businesses what procedures they should have in place. We consider businesss responses 
to consumers complaints and whether they are fair and reasonable. Its also important that 
were fair to both sides  so while Mr K may want us to fine or punish West Bay, thats not 
what were here to do. Our role is to make an award that recognises the impact West Bays 
mistake had on him.
West Bay paid Mr K £100 for the confusion caused by its claims teams not realising that his 
broker had already arranged repairs. This error caused Mr K some frustration and bother for 
a limited time. Im satisfied that this compensation is fair and reasonable as its in keeping 
with our published guidance. So I dont require West Bay to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman