DRN-2328463
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont allow him to split the title on his freehold 
property over which Barclays have a charge and to create two leasehold titles  on the two 
flats that he owns.
What happened
Mr H owns the freehold of a property thats divided into two flats. Barclays has a buy to let 
mortgage over the freehold from 2015. Mr H wants Barclays to agree to him creating two 
leasehold interests and transferring the mortgage from the freehold property to the leasehold 
properties by way of a deed of substitution. This would allow him greater access to finance 
than presently. Mr H agreed to pay the legal and valuation fees incurred. Mr H says that as 
presently constituted no other lender will lend on this type of property and would only 
consider lending to him if the leases were already in place and would not allow them to be 
created at the same time as a remortgage. Mr H believes this could be done by splitting the 
mortgage between both flats provided that Barclays lending was secured on the new 
leasehold titles on the same day as the existing mortgage was repaid by way of a deed of 
substitution.
Barclays refused the application as it says that the creation of the leases from the freehold 
falls outside their policy. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld as Barclays was acting within its policy. Mr H disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn when I read the file that Mr H has been unwell, and I hope by now he 
has recovered from his illness. Mr H has a buy to let mortgage from Barclays based on it 
having a charge over a freehold interest in the property but now wants it to accept a charge 
over two leasehold interests. Mr H believes that Barclays porting guidelines allows it a 
discretion to do. It seems to me that the porting policy provided to us by Mr H doesnt fit this 
situation as it envisages porting to a new property and Mr H isnt buying a new property 
here.
Mr Hs problem is that he has a buy to let mortgage with Barclays and the lender has a 
policy which prevents him achieving what he wants to do. That policy is not to agree leases 
on units in buildings where the freehold is subject to a charge. In effect, Mr H wants us to 
overturn Barclays policy to allow him to create theses leases and alter Barclays charge over 
the freehold interest in the property to charges over the leasehold interests.  But I dont 
consider that I can fairly do that. I understand from Mr H that another lender has a different 
practice on this, but I am satisfied that it is contrary to Barclays lending policy. Barclays is a 
commercial entity and entitled to establish and maintain lending policies in line with its 
commercial objectives as long as they are fairly implemented.  It seems clear in this instance 
that Barclays has considered the application fairly  in line with its policy and unfortunately for 
Mr H has  refused to agree to Mr Hs request. As I say, I dont consider thats unfair and so I 
cant uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman