DRN-3266233
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of a claim made 
under a home insurance policy he holds jointly with Mrs S.
All references to Admiral include its appointed agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been 
summarised by our investigator, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has gone to some effort to resolve the matters raised by Mr P  including 
compensating them £2050 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Having 
reviewed the compensation offered I agree that this is a fair and reasonable amount 
in the circumstances.
So, what Im focusing on below is the matter of the cash settlement for the 
outstanding repairs, which appears to be the only matter remaining in dispute. Ill set 
out my thoughts below and what I believe would be a fair and pragmatic way to 
resolve this issue between the parties.
My understanding is that Admiral isnt offering its own contractors to do the work, and 
in any event, it appears the relationship between Mr P and the previous contractors 
has broken down. So, in this case, our services general approach is that if Admiral 
wishes to cash settle instead, then it must be at reasonable cost to the consumers. In 
other words, the amount paid should be enough to put them back in the position they 
were in before the loss occurred.
Following Admirals settlement offer of £23,551.19 (exc. VAT) on 2 December 2020, 
Mr P was told that if he was unhappy with the cash settlement, he should provide two 
quotes for Admirals consideration. Mr P did so, and the quotes were in the region of 
c.£50k to £60k.
I accept Admiral has some concerns about the quotes provided. Essentially it says 
they are unreasonable, including excessive costs for decoration and tiling. And I think 
these comments here do carry some weight. But on the other hand, Ive not seen 
anything to show Mr P can get the works done for the amount thats currently been 
offered as a settlement.
I also understand Admirals concerns over a third quote being provided by Mr P. 
Although I do note that Admiral was considering a third independent option from its 
surveyor in order to validate the costs, I have to agree with our investigator that the 
crux of the issue here is about what it will cost Mr P to actually get the work done. So, 
unless theres a way that Admiral can factor Mr Ps costs directly into its own scope, I 
dont see what this would achieve here. 
But given the current position between the parties is so significant, I think that a 
further independent validation of those repair costs is required to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome for both sides.
I reached out to both parties to mediate a way forward on the claim. I proposed in 
order to bring this claim to a conclusion and ensure that Mr P is indemnified that 
Admiral:
oJointly appoint an independent contractor with a remit to carry out a review of 
the schedule of works and provide a quotation for what it would cost them to 
repair the property. The contractor can review any information that either 
party would like them to. Admiral and Mr P then both agree to be bound by 
the contractors costs and allow them to do the repairs.
oAdmiral can offer Mr P a choice of three contractors and he can choose from 
one of those three. 
oIf the costs of the contractor are greater than the settlement already paid to 
Mr P, then Admiral agrees to pay the difference of the independent 
contractors costs directly to the contractor (including any costs for VAT if Mr 
P/the contractor provide sufficient evidence that VAT has been charged/paid).
The alternative here, as our investigator recommended, is for Mr P to get a third 
quote for the repairs. But this will likely take more time and Admiral would be entitled 
to review this and raise any further concerns about the overall costs.
For this reason, I believe the solution proposed above is the most pragmatic for both 
parties in the circumstances, as it will also allow the repairs to be done as soon as 
practically possible after the costs have been agreed and the claim to be finalised.
Admiral agreed with my proposal and said it would be happy to arrange a contractor 
to complete a third scope of repairs and that it may be assisted by a quantity 
surveyor to ensure an accurate reflection of the costs. 
Mr P disagreed and said that he didnt want to be part of any settlement where 
Admiral was still involved, and that he would rather get a further quote.
Having reconsidered everything, I remain persuaded that my proposed redress 
represents the fairest way to resolve this complaint for both parties. I dont think its 
reasonable for Admiral to have no say in the overall repair costs when the amounts 
are so significantly different. So, I will direct Admiral to put things right by doing what 
Ive set out above. Mr P is free to reject my decision if he wishes to pursue a different course of action.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr P and Mrs S, Admiral must:
Jointly appoint an independent contractor with a remit to carry out a review of the 
schedule of works and provide a quotation for what it would cost them to repair the 
property. The contractor can review any information that either party would like them 
to. Admiral and Mr P then both agree to be bound by the contractors costs and allow 
them to do the repairs.
Admiral can offer Mr P a choice of three contractors and he can choose from one of 
those three. 
If the costs of the contractor are greater than the settlement already paid to Mr P, 
then Admiral agrees to pay the difference of independent contractors costs directly 
to the contractor (including any costs for VAT if Mr P/the contractor provide sufficient 
evidence that VAT has been charged/paid).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman