DRN-3970574
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from an investment adviser representing 
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP).
What happened
SJP began advising Mr K in 2017. They recommended he move his investments to a 
company offering a discretionary fund management service. This company is separate to 
SJP. Ill call them X in this decision. They appear to have received Mr Ks investments and 
then changed them to cover a wider range of shares, and take less risk with Mr Ks money. 
SJP received an initial advice fee for their recommendation. And they received an ongoing 
advice fee every month. 
In 2020, X looks to have made a mistake when working out some tax on Mr Ks investment. 
Mr K raised this with SJP who in turn raised it with X. A corrected calculation was issued the 
following day. Further explanation of the cause of the error came later, after Mr K and SJP 
had pursued the matter. X  not SJP  also offered Mr K a £50 payment as an apology. 
That issue seems to have set Mr Ks relationship with SJP on a downward path. In 
July 2021, the SJP adviser recommended Mr K cancel the ongoing adviser fee and seek a 
new adviser. 
This led to the SJP adviser emailing Mr K and X to say the ongoing fee should be cancelled. 
Mr K complained to us about that, saying he felt hed been sacked by his adviser. 
Mr K also raised other issues. He felt it had taken too long for his investment to be 
transferred to X initially. And that the sale of some shares had been rushed and missed 
getting their best value. And that his adviser hadnt done enough to help him or answer his 
questions. And that the errors made by X had led him to need an accountant. And that his 
ISA allowance hadnt been used to its full. And that losses had been unreasonably factored 
into Xs consideration of taxes on his investment. 
SJP didnt uphold Mr Ks complaints. They noted the end of the ongoing advice fee led to the 
adviser no longer working for Mr K. They felt the time taken to transfer shares to X was 
reasonable, and the sales reflected the need to change the investments. They felt they had 
tried to help Mr K when the tax issue arose, and the corrections made had kept any harm 
from being done. They noted Mr K hadnt marked on an initial form that he wanted his ISA 
allowance used every year. And they said the same form showed Mr K was happy for his 
investment losses to be considered against his investments going forward. 
Mr K wasnt happy with the response, so the complaint came to us for investigation. During 
that process though, SJP looked again at the matter and decided to uphold the part about 
using Mr Ks ISA allowance. 
SJP noted their initial recommendation letters to Mr K had told him his ISA allowance would 
be used each year to take some of his gains out of the tax system. But that hadnt happened 
in the 2018/19 or 2019/20 tax years. SJP said they had no evidence the ISA position had 
been discussed with Mr K prior to 2020, so they put forward an offer to put things right. 
The offer was to pay £4,131.49 for the projected impact on Mr Ks investment return. And 
they offered to pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr K rejected that offer, as it didnt resolve his overall complaint. A new investigator at our 
end then picked up the case. Theyve now made an assessment of the issues, and given 
their view to Mr K and SJP. Our investigator broadly agreed with SJPs position on the 
complaint. But they felt a higher level of compensation was needed to acknowledge the 
distress Mr K had been caused. 
Our investigator suggested a total payment of £750 from SJP to Mr K  on top of the money 
for the projected impact on Mr Ks investment  would put things right. Mr K didnt agree, so 
the case has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Ks complaint  along the lines of our 
investigators most recent view. Ill briefly explain my reasoning.
A major issue here for Mr K seems to be that he feels it was unreasonable for his adviser to 
stop working for him. 
As a regulated financial service provider, there are principles SJP should always consider. 
One of these  principle six in the regulators handbook  is to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
In Mr Ks case, I can see his adviser had picked up on Mr Ks dissatisfaction with the service 
being provided. I consider that was a reasonable conclusion to have reached given the 
contact taking place between them at the time. And its certainly reflected in Mr Ks 
subsequent complaints, which cover most of what the adviser had done for him. 
Being aware of that dissatisfaction, the adviser then had to pay due regard to what would be 
in Mr Ks interests. It seems the adviser thought about the fact Mr K was paying for the 
ongoing advice, and yet was unhappy with the advice he was receiving. It seems the adviser 
was also at a point where they couldnt see a way to rebuild Mr Ks trust and confidence. 
A reasonable step to take in those circumstances was to stop taking the fee and leave Mr K 
to find a new adviser. 
The question then is whether doing that treated Mr K fairly. I can see the adviser made Mr K 
aware of the reasons for recommending he stop paying for his services. And I note the 
adviser offered something of a transition service  offering during a call not to charge Mr K 
while supporting him to take his business elsewhere. 
I find this did enough to treat Mr K fairly. The relationship was such that ending it was a 
reasonable action. And that was done in a way that gave Mr K sufficient notice and support 
to move the work to a new adviser. 
So while I appreciate Mr K will probably disagree with my opinion, Im not upholding the 
central point of his complaint. I find it reasonable his relationship with the adviser came to an end when and how it did.
Moving on to the other points Mr K has raised, Ive tried when summarising this case above 
to draw the line between SJPs actions, and those of X, the investment managers. SJP 
arent responsible for the mistake that X made in the 2020 tax calculation. So Im not going 
to dwell on the mistake itself. 
I can see Mr K contacted his SJP adviser about the mistake. But I can also see the emails 
where that adviser pursued the matter with X, and had the result given to Mr K. I appreciate 
Mr K seems to have wanted more explanation or discussion about the matter. But I find 
SJPs actions did enough to have the problem corrected and tell Mr K what had caused it. I 
find that was a reasonable level of service on this part of the complaint. 
The transfer and sale of investments in 2017 seems to follow from SJPs advice to move 
them to X, and from Xs strategy for diversifying and reducing risk. I cant see SJP have 
caused any avoidable delays here. Nor can I see specific instances where an investment 
was sold that shouldnt have been. The timing of the sales  where this was controlled by 
SJP or X  seems to reflect the nature of the discretionary fund management Mr K had 
signed up to. So again, I see SJPs service as being reasonable.
Factoring in earlier losses when calculating the tax position of Mr Ks investments seems to 
have been done by X, but on the basis of the application form Mr K completed with SJP. It 
seems sensible to have done that, as it optimised Mr Ks tax position. Mr K has suggested 
there were other ways he could have used the losses. But its not clear he ever told SJP 
about these. They can only advise on the details he gave them.
Where there does appear to be a failing is  as SJP later noted  in the inefficient use of 
ISAs. Mr K could have been putting £20,000 each year into an ISA, and taking it out of 
standard tax consideration. I can see Mr K didnt complete his application form to achieve 
this, but that should have been raised with him at the time. Theres no evidence it was, so I 
conclude that it wasnt. 
It's that issue  and that issue alone  that SJP need to take steps to put right. 
Putting things right
I can see SJP have completed a calculation that worked out how much Mr K could have put 
in an ISA but didnt because of their failing. Theyve then worked out what that would be 
worth now. And then theyve tracked that forward 10 years to work out what it could be worth 
in the future. The gain is exposed to tax if encashed during that period. Its that tax cost 
theyve offered to pay. 
I find thats a reasonable way to remedy the issue here. It has to speculate about what 
Mr Ks investment could be worth in the future. But the potential growth factor used by SJP 
balances the risks of over or under estimating. 
Mr K may incur a higher tax bill due to this failing. Or he may incur a lower one. Only time 
will tell. But in the interests of drawing the complaint to a quick and informal conclusion, I find 
the £4,131.49 is suitable to recognise the possible financial impact here. 
But the uncertainty, and Mr Ks feeling that he hasnt received a value-for-money service 
remains. SJP cant now undo that. But I agree with our investigator that a payment of 
compensation could at least acknowledge it.
I appreciate that choosing a monetary amount for an emotional impact is a matter of opinion. And I appreciate Mr K feels the service hes received has been deeply unfair and 
unreasonable. I dont share his view for much of this complaint. So my remedy here is likely 
to be much less than Mr K would want. 
Ive considered the £750 our investigator put forward. I believe they intended this to factor in 
a £50 payment offered in 2020 following the tax calculation issue. But my understanding of 
this case is that the payment there was from X, not SJP. 
With that said, I find a payment from SJP to Mr K of £750 would be a reasonable way to 
acknowledge the upset and inconvenience hes felt as a result of his ISA allowance not 
being fully used. It reflects that there isnt a loss today, but there could be in the future. But 
balances that with the fact that most of what hes upset about is the result of SJP taking 
reasonable steps in this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Ks complaint about St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 
Plc. To put things right they should:
- Pay Mr K £4,131.49 compensation for the potential cost incurred due to not using his 
ISA allowances; and 
- Ensure Mr K has received £750 compensation from them for the trouble and upset 
caused by this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman