DRN-2481321
The complaint
Ms N complains that 3J Finance Limited wont release her from a fixed sum loan agreement 
which paid for an online educational course for her child.
What happened
In January 2019 Ms N bought an online educational course for her child using credit 
provided by 3J. 3J says she took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement over five years to pay for 
this educational course. The course was provided by a different company.
Until November 2019 Ms N made the repayments to 3J. In December 2019 she spoke to 3J 
wanting to cancel the agreement. In March 2020 3J issued a Final Notice reminding Ms N of 
her obligations to make the monthly payments. Ms N complained. Since then 3J has passed 
the debt to another company.
Ms N feels it was unfair to have a fourteen-day cancellation period when the laptop they 
needed to run the course didnt arrive till later. She thinks the course itself isnt of satisfactory 
quality. She thinks there is a conflict of interests between the course provider and 3J as 
some of the people are linked between the two companies. She thinks that she shouldnt be 
held to the agreement. But 3J feels it hasnt done anything wrong. So Ms N brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Ms Ns complaint about 3J, but Ms N remains unhappy. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything Ms N has said about what happened here. I note she gives very 
little description of the sales process at the time she was sold this course both in her 
comments to this service but also in her representations to the business. And doesnt give 
any persuasive reasoning regarding the paperwork which was completed at the time.
3J has said that Ms N signed and initialled the paperwork, had the benefit of the finance 
agreement, was aware of the cancellation period and had discussed the matter with the 
representative at the time. 
3J didnt sell Ms N the course, but it has some responsibilities to Ms N due to certain 
protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Ms N entered 
with 3J is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act which provide her with 
some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the seller of the course the agent of 3J 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Ms N entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communication she received. In essence this means 3J can be held 
responsible for the things that were done or said during the sales process by another party 
(the representative Ms N met). Section 75 has the effect of allowing Ms N to hold 3J liable 
for breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made in relation to the 
purchase of the course.
3J has pointed to a number of documents which were electronically signed including the 
credit agreement and also a document which Ms N completed and signed by hand. 3J says 
these documents show that Ms N knew what she was doing. It also points to a document 
which Ms N completed prior to the first meeting to arrange that meeting. 3Js position is 
essentially is that the documentary evidence from the point of sale is decisive and is, in 
short, the end of the matter as Ms N agreed to everything in those documents. It is my view 
that 3Js position here is somewhat simplistic and doesnt sufficiently consider how the 
representative behaved on the day, what they said or didnt say and how they framed the 
process to Ms N. That said, this paperwork does carry some weight in my decision making.
And Im aware that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining 
some key risks for them to consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms brokering 
credit agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales 
practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor 
consumer outcomes. It highlighted in particular brokers which sell products in consumers 
homes as presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially where sales took place 
without appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual 
firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the 
FCA identified as presenting a high risk of mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
sales practices used to sell the course sold here (and related courses) which are provided by 
the course provider in this case. And there are some common themes in these sales which 
illustrate that these sales practices werent always as they should have been. However this 
doesnt mean every sale was unsafe. And this service has seen examples of such sales 
which were conducted in the manner 3J and the course provider suggest.
Ive considered what Ms N has said about the sale itself and also thought very carefully 
about the nature of interactions Ms N had with 3J. I note that Ms N has said she was made 
aware of the cancellation period when she agreed to buy the course and that she 
understood she was buying the course through finance by way of 3J Finance. She does 
also say she doesnt remember signing anything during the meeting. In response to this 3J 
has noted that the documentation used to set up the meeting has Ms Ns handwriting and 
signature and that it appears the same as that which appears on the documentation 
completed during the sale. Having considered what happened here and the examples of 
handwriting present on the documents on balance Im satisfied she agreed to the contract 
entered into and did sign.
I note that she made the repayments without contacting 3J between February and 
November 2019. She says she tried to cancel after two months but Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence of this in 3Js contact notes.
Ms Ns main complaint points are around the suitability of the course and not getting the 
laptop quickly. But as she has explained she knew about the fourteen-day cancelation period 
but evidently didnt exercise this right under the contract. So although the laptop didnt arrive 
quickly it seems clear she was willing to wait for it. And one was provided as she accepts. 
Ms N says it didnt work but Ms N also says that her child was doing the course and that she 
returned the computer in December 2019. However Ms N made the repayments throughout 
and it seems from December 2019 Ms N didnt want access to the course anymore. And I note that the provision of the laptop isnt part of the agreement. So I dont think 3J did 
anything wrong in that regard.
Ms N says the course hasnt helped her child sufficiently. But she also says her child wasnt 
good at using the support calls that the course provided. Im not persuaded Ms N was told 
anything about the course that isnt true. And Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of the 
course guaranteeing results for those children who use it. And the modules are as described 
and are to be progressed through. So although Ms N is disappointed with her childs 
progress Im not persuaded the course isnt of satisfactory quality or that it was 
misrepresented to her.
Ms N points to certain individuals having roles at both the course provider and 3J and says 
thats a conflict of interest. But Im not persuaded that this makes a difference. I say this 
because its no different to if the same firm had sold the course and the finance. As long as 
consumers like Ms N can make a fair informed choice and all the relevant obligations are 
met then I dont think the fact that some individuals have roles in two separate legal entities 
makes a difference here. And although Ms N alleges there is a conflict here she hasnt 
explained how that makes a difference and why she wouldnt have bought the course or 
taken the finance had she known. After all she makes clear she understood there was a link 
between the companies at the time of sale as she makes clear she knew the course provider 
provided the course and 3J provided the finance. So I dont think this issue makes a 
difference to my position on this complaint.
Although I have considered Ms Ns comments I do not think that they are sufficiently 
persuasive to override 3Js comments and submissions on the matter. So I dont think Ms N 
was materially misrepresented into entering an agreement shed otherwise not have entered. 
Nor am I persuaded that there has been a breach of contract here. The course was available 
throughout when she paid for it and indeed for some time after she stopped paying. I dont 
think the course no longer being available considering she hasnt made the repayments 
towards the finance is an unfair state of affairs. And the course provider has said its willing to 
make the course available again once Ms N starts making repayments.
Ms N has also raised the issue of 3J having issued a notice of assignment and transferring 
her debt to another party. Clearly 3J havent had opportunity to look into this complaint about 
this issue and accordingly neither have I. However I would note that it is often the case that 
companies can do this, and I would say such assignments are common in relation to debts. 
This notice makes clear who the debt is being assigned to.
So having considered everything that has happened here Im not persuaded Ms N was 
misrepresented to or that the contract has been breached. Im satisfied she entered the 
agreement fairly. Accordingly I do not see any persuasive reason to uphold this complaint 
against 3J.
I appreciate this isnt a decision Ms N wishes to hear. However all things considered Im not 
persuaded that 3J did anything sufficiently wrong here to uphold this complaint against it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against 3J Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-ThomasOmbudsman