DRN-3548012
The complaint
Mr D complains about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) after his account details were updated 
wrongly, when a fraudulent credit card application was made. He wants to know how this 
happened and be reassured that it would not happen again. 
What happened
Mr D was an existing customer of Lloyds. 
Unbeknownst to Mr D, a fraudster applied for a credit card using Mr Ds name and details to 
a business connected with Lloyds.
When that fraudulent application was processed, some details which were in the application 
did not match the records Lloyds held for Mr D. Lloyds updated Mr Ds record in error, using 
the fraudulent details. 
Mr D applied for a new bank account with Lloyds and an account switch. The inconsistency 
among the details caused him to be declined. 
Mr D contacted Lloyds, and Lloyds subsequently cancelled the fraudulent card and removed 
details of applications relating to it from Mr Ds records. 
Mr D complained to Lloyds and received compensation for his distress and inconvenience 
and for his calls to Lloyds to get matters sorted out. 
Mr D remained unhappy and contacted us. He wants to know how his details came to be 
updated, and he wants to be reassured that nothing similar could happen in the future. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This was that 
Lloyds had provided an appropriate explanation of what had happened. He therefore did not 
ask Lloyds to do anything further. 
Mr D did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have made further enquiries with Mr D as to what he wants to achieve from this complaint. 
He has not suggested that he is unhappy with the compensation he accepted from Lloyds 
and he explained that he does not think that the explanation given by Lloyds is reasonable or 
adequate. He wants Lloyds to show why and how it updated his details in order to show that 
safeguards were in place. 
Mt colleague has previously explained to Mr D that we might not be the right organisation for 
his complaint. We do not oversee the processes operated within businesses, or the way they 
handle data, as these functions are reserved to the Financial Conduct Authority and 
Information Commissioners Office respectively. We look at whether a business has treated 
an individual fairly in the circumstances, and where they have not, we can require them to 
pay compensation, or take other actions. 
There is no dispute here that Lloyds ought not to have updated Mr Ds details when it 
received the fraudulent card application with inconsistent details and that it updated his 
details with wrong inforation. Lloyds acknowledges this and has paid Mr D compensation for 
the inconvenience he was caused. 
Lloyds has told us that part of its business process, when it receives new applications, is to 
update existing details. That is what happened here across Lloyds businesses. 
Mr D wants further explanation than this, so he can feel confident that his data is adequately 
protected. 
I understand this, but I would not expect a business to provide detailed explanations of its 
businesses processes as these could be exploited or could compromise the integrity of the 
processes if too widely known. I consider that Lloyds need only explain in broad terms what 
went wrong, and acknowledge the impact it had on Mr D. 
In my view it has done so, and it has clarified that the records were wrongly updated, 
through no fault of Mr D. Lloyds has also acknowledged that Mr D was put to inconvenience 
in resolving this issue and has paid him compensation which Mr D appears to be satisfied 
with. 
On that basis, I do not ask Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further and I do not uphold Mr 
Ds complaint. 
I understand that Mr D will be disappointed by this and he wants a clearer explanation of the 
processes and data handling that were involved but I think that the explanation given by 
Lloyds is proportionate and sufficient. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint and do not ask Lloyds Bank 
PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman