DRN-3313100
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to complete a bank 
transfer on time.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr M visited a NatWest branch to arrange a large bank transfer, which he says 
was being sent to his solicitor to complete the purchase of a house. Mr M says the bank 
guaranteed the transfer would complete on time but failed to do so, leading to the house 
purchase being pushed back to a later date. Mr M says he suffered a financial loss because 
of this as he had to pay costs of £1,000 to the selling third party.  He also says he had to visit 
the bank several times in one day to chase the progress of the transfer and adds that he was 
misadvised by staff at the branch. Mr M says the situation was stressful as he later had to 
negotiate the costs he owed to the third party.
After Mr M complained to NatWest, the bank explained that the transfer was carried out via 
CHAPS, and Mr Ms initial visit to the branch was past the cut-off time for same day 
payment. NatWest confirmed the transfer was completed the following day and said it had 
processed it correctly. The bank accepted that some of the advice Mr M received from 
branch staff wasnt entirely accurate and may have given him false hope about when the 
transfer would complete. So NatWest paid Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him and refunded him the £23 CHAPS fee it charged.
Remaining unhappy, Mr M asked this service to review the matter and said he wants the 
bank to pay him £1,800 compensation. To resolve this complaint sooner, NatWest offered 
Mr M a further £100 compensation  which he declined. One of our investigators concluded 
that the bank had followed its process correctly. The investigator agreed that Mr M was 
given misleading expectations by branch staff and decided that the compensation NatWest 
had already offered was a fair way to resolve the complaint.
Mr M didnt agree  he says he was given the impression the transfer would complete by a 
certain time, so he proceeded with completing the house purchase. Our investigator 
commented that the time the transfer would complete was not guaranteed. Because Mr M 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators opinion that NatWest has put forward a fair 
resolution to this complaint  Ill explain why.
The information Ive seen indicates Mr M visited the NatWest branch on 20 May 2021 after 
3.00pm. The bank says that by this point, the cut-off time for a same day CHAPS payment 
had already passed. Ive looked at NatWests information about its CHAPS process and I 
can see it says the cut-off time for a same day payment is 2.59pm. Mr M says he was 
advised by the manager at the branch that the transfer would complete the next day. And the 
file sent to us by NatWest includes a confirmation from the branch manager that he provided 
this information to Mr M. So I dont think NatWest acted unfairly by not processing the 
transfer the same day, given the cut-off time to do so had already passed.
Mr M says he had to visit the branch several times the next day to follow up on the status of 
the transfer and the recollection from the branch manager confirms this was the case. Mr M 
is unhappy that he had to spend so much time following up this issue. 
The branch manager says Mr M visited the bank on the morning of the following day (21 
May) and was advised that its anticipated the transfer would complete by midday, but the 
manager couldnt specify a time. The branch manager adds that Mr M came in again in the 
afternoon and was advised that, in line with NatWests terms, it could take up until 7.00pm 
for the transfer to complete. Ive seen a copy of an email sent to Mr M by the branch 
manager that reiterates this information and assures Mr M that the transfer would process on 
that day.
I understand why Mr M felt the need to continue following up on the status of the payment, 
given it was a large sum and he intended to use it for the purchase of a house. But I dont 
think that the multiple visits he made to the NatWest branch were because of something the 
bank did wrong. When Mr M initiated the CHAPS payment, I cant see anything that 
suggests a specific time for when the transfer would complete was agreed. And although the 
branch manager suggested the transfer may complete by midday on 21 May, theres nothing 
Ive seen that indicates this was guaranteed. The only assurance I can see that was given to 
Mr M was in the branch managers email to him  in that he confirms the transfer would 
complete on 21 May. So I cant conclude that the bank did something wrong here.
However, I do note NatWests own admission that the advice Mr M was given in branch 
couldve raised his expectations about when the payment would complete. And although I 
still think assurances werent made, I can see how this wouldve led to Mr M believing the 
transfer would complete sooner. As Mr M says, the situation caused him stress and he had 
to visit the branch several times. I think the level of stress and inconvenience Mr M 
experienced couldve been lessened, had the advice given to him been clearer. So I think 
NatWest needs to do something to put this right.
Mr Ms view is that he was forced to push his house purchase to a later date and had to pay 
the third partys losses because NatWest didnt complete the transfer sooner. But I dont 
agree. I say this because it seems to me that NatWest processed the transfer as soon as it 
could and within the next day from when Mr M initiated it in branch. Its unfortunate that the 
transfer didnt complete until around 4.00pm on 21 May. But NatWests terms set out that a 
completion time isnt guaranteed and, given the transfer was for a significant sum, I can 
understand why it may have taken longer than usual to process. 
Mr M provided a copy of an email he sent to his solicitor on 21 May requesting that the 
purchase of the house goes ahead that day. I can see it was sent in the early hours of that 
morning. But this was before Mr M followed up the status of the transfer and before hed 
received confirmation that the transfer had completed. So I cant fairly conclude that 
NatWests actions were what caused the delay with Mr Ms house purchase and the losses 
he had to reimburse the third party for.
In summary, Im satisfied NatWest acted in line with its own policies and processes when 
carrying out Mr Ms transfer via CHAPS. Unfortunately, Mr M had missed the cut-off for 
same day payment and from everything Ive seen, Im of the view that the bank did 
everything it could to complete the transfer within a reasonable timeframe. And although 
NatWest couldve been clearer in the advice it gave Mr M, I dont think it treated him unfairly. Putting things right
NatWest already accepts that the advice given to Mr M around the time wasnt always clear 
and may have given him false hope around when the transfer would complete. The bank has 
already paid Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him, as 
well as refund the CHAPS fee of £23.
NatWest has since offered a further £100 compensation to Mr M to make up for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused him. I think this is a fair way to settle this complaint  so I wont 
be instructing the bank to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think National Westminster Bank Plc has already put 
forward a fair settlement for this complaint. If Mr M accepts, National Westminster Bank Plc 
should pay him the additional £100 compensation it has offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman