DRN-1613879
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about the valuation U K Insurance Limited (UKI) placed on his car under his 
motor insurance policy after it was deemed to be beyond economical repair. 
What happened
After Mr Ws car was deemed to be a total loss following vandalism, UKI offered him £2,770 
as the cars market value. But Mr W thought this was too low and didnt take into account a 
modification to his car. Mr W thought his car was worth over £4,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKIs 
offer was fair and reasonable as it had been made through use of the motor trade guides 
according to our approach. She thought it took into account the cars condition. She couldnt 
see that the modification increased the cars value. 
Mr W replied that the cars modification increased its value and its external condition 
outweighed the cost of an internal clean by hundreds of pounds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has raised other concerns with UKIs handling of his claim apart from the valuation UKI 
offered for his car. These are being dealt with as a separate complaint, so Ill not refer to 
these points here.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought UKIs valuation of Mr Ws car was fair and reasonable. So Ive 
checked how she came to this conclusion. I can see that Mr Ws policy provides for the cars 
market value in the case of its total loss.  I can see that the investigator checked the motor 
trade guides for cars of the same make, model, mileage, age and condition as Mr Ws car. 
She found the market value was between £2,825 and £3,220. 
UKI had made a deduction for the poor condition of the cars interior. She thought, based on 
the engineers photographs, this was fair and reasonable. I think a deduction of about £50 
for a clean was reasonable. So, allowing for this, the final valuation of £2,770 was within the 
range of the valuations provided by the guides. 
Mr W thought the cars modification should increase its value. I can understand that this was 
very costly. But I havent seen any evidence to show that it would add value to the car. In 
any case, Mr W hadnt told UKI about the modification as he was obliged to do by the policy 
terms and conditions. If he had done so, it would have declined cover. So I cant say that 
UKI should increase its offer because of the modification. 
I think UKIs valuation of Mr Ws car was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly 
according to our approach and the policys terms and conditions. I dont require it to increase 
this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman