DRN-3764769
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC wont refund transactions he made to a 
company running an online gambling site, who Ill refer to as A. Mr L believes A is a fraud 
and that he didnt authorise some of the transactions.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In April 2021 Mr L set up an online account with A. Hes told us that he made deposits into 
the account using his Tesco credit card (along with making other deposits to A from two 
accounts he held with other providers). 
Mr L has said that he accumulated some winnings, but when he tried to withdraw funds he 
was unable to. Hes said A initially asked him to provide various forms of identification and 
then told him that it had attempted to process a payment to his bank, but that his bank had 
rejected it. Mr L has said he checked with his bank, who confirmed to him that it had not 
rejected any payment and had no record of any payment being attempted.
Mr L has said that having then gone back to A, he was blocked from his account. Mr L has 
added that following this some transactions appeared on his Tesco credit card that he said 
he didnt recognise. Mr L told us that there were also unauthorised transactions on the other 
two accounts he had used to place deposits to A.
Mr L raised the matter with Tesco. Tesco initially refunded the transactions that Mr L 
disputed, but then debited them back onto Mr Ls account. It looked into Mr Ls concerns, but 
didnt uphold his complaint. In summary it said there were no obvious indications that led it to 
believe A was running a scam website and it thought it more likely than not Mr L had made 
the transactions. Alongside this, Tesco said it didnt consider there were grounds to raise a 
chargeback on the purchases, as there wasnt a prospect of success. This was because the 
scheme rules didnt provide allowances to raise a chargeback on the basis of being unable 
to withdraw funds from A.
Unhappy with Tescos response, Mr L brought the matter to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things. Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  
In summary our investigator was persuaded that A was running a legitimate website. She 
added that she didnt think the payments from Mr Ls account were particularly unusual, 
compared to how he typically ran his account, so she didnt think Tesco missed an 
opportunity to intervene.
Our investigator added that she thought it more likely than not the transactions Mr L disputed 
had been authorised. In summary, she thought this because the payments were frequent 
and low, which wasnt the hallmark of a scammer, who would be more inclined to get as 
much as they can as quickly as possible. And she added that the nature of the transactions 
were in line with payments Mr L agreed hed authorised. As well as this, she said it wasnt 
clear how A would have been able to obtain Mr Ls card details, in order to make the 
payments. Our investigator also thought Tesco acted fairly when not raising a chargeback.
Mr L didnt accept our Investigators view, he maintained the payments were unauthorised 
and fraudulent. As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has mentioned that he also lost money from accounts he held with different providers 
and that this money has been refunded to him. But when reaching my decision, I can only 
consider the facts and the individual circumstances surrounding the payments Mr L made 
from his Tesco account. So I wont be considering the payments that were made from the 
other service providers here. 
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator, Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that Tesco could have delayed the payments while concerns about the payee 
were discussed with Mr L.
So, I would need to be satisfied that A was operating a scam when these transactions were 
made in order to expect Tesco to have done anything further here. When determining this, 
Ive borne in mind that certain traders may use sales methods, or communication styles that 
can be seen to be unfair. Including, when considering financial losses and disputes over 
winnings or withdrawals. But not all cases where individuals have lost significant sums are in 
fact fraudulent and/or a scam. While the ways and means of these businesses can be 
viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they amount to 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. 
Ive taken into consideration the concerns Mr L has raised about the techniques A 
employed. But overall Im not persuaded there is enough evidence for me to safely say A 
was fraudulent or operating a scam. As a result, Tescos duty to intervene wasnt 
triggered. Therefore, I dont consider Tesco acted unfairly by failing to intervene in these 
payments.
Did Mr L authorise the transactions in dispute?
The regulations relevant to this complaint are set out in the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). Broadly speaking, these set out that a consumer can only be held liable for a 
transaction that theyve authorised. It isnt generally disputed in the facts of this case that   
Mr Ls Credit Card details have been used to make these transactions.
What is in dispute is if Mr Ls consent was given for the payments to be made. Mr L has 
acknowledged that he did make a number of deposits to A, using his Tesco credit card, but 
he argues that at some point (around mid-June 2021), he didnt make any further deposits 
(this following a dispute that had materialised over him trying to withdraw some funds from 
A). My role is to consider whether Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably in holding Mr L 
responsible for the disputed transactions. In doing so I must consider the evidence 
available to me and use it to reach a conclusion on whether I think the banks actions have 
been fair. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Tesco to conclude that 
Mr L authorised the transactions. This is because:
- The pattern of spending doesnt fit that of sombody with an intent to defraud. The 
transactions are relatively low in value and spread over a number of days. It seems 
unlikely that an opportunistic fraudster would make transactions in this way. I think 
somebody with an intent to defraud would want to gain as much benefit as they 
could and as quickly as they could before the fraud is detected.
- I am also mindful that the pattern of spending for the disputed transactions is similar 
to the transactions that Mr L doesnt dispute. In that there are multiple transactions 
on the same day for similar amounts. These characteristics are not consistent with 
the typical hallmarks of fraudsters.
- There doesnt appear to have been a clear point of compromise of Mr Ls card 
details. To make the transactions it required the full details of Mr Ls card. While A 
asked Mr L to provide his card details, it was clear in asking Mr L to cover the CVV 
number. Again, this is not the typical hallmarks of a fraudster, who would more likely 
endeavour to gather all the information from the card.  But importantly here, without 
the full details it is difficult to see how a third party would have been able to 
successfully pull the payments from Mr Ls account. 
Having considered everything, all of the available evidence points to it being more likely than 
not that Mr L made the transactions himself. I realise that is a very difficult message to give, 
but that is what the available evidence leads me to believe here. This means that Mr L can 
be held responsible for them. As such, I cannot fairly and reasonably ask Tesco to refund 
them.
Finally, Ive considered that Tesco did not pursue a chargeback. A chargeback is a voluntary 
scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, Mastercard. It arbitrates on disputes 
between a customer and a merchant where they havent been able to resolve matters 
themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which are set by 
Mastercard  and there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback can be raised. 
Chargebacks raised outside of these grounds are deemed invalid. And in the circumstances 
of this case, there are no provisions within the scheme rules relating to the dispute that Mr L 
has raised and the type of transactions he made. It follows, I do not think Tesco has acted 
unreasonably by failing to pursue a chargeback claim in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman