DRN-2361862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain, through a representative, about investment advice Santander UK 
Plc gave them in 1998. They say the advice was too risky given their lack of investment 
experience, and it was unaffordable.
What happened
In 1998 Mr and Mrs G had a life policy mature, and spoke to a Santander adviser about 
investing the proceeds. 
Santander completed a fact find with Mr and Mrs G that recorded they had about £700 a 
month surplus income, and were looking to build up a lump sum by investing over at least 
five years with the emphasis on capital growth. Their attitude to risk was assessed as 
balanced.
Santander recommended they make lump sum investments of about £7,000, and invest £50 
a month on an ongoing basis as well. Mr and Mrs G decided not to make the lump sum 
investments but went ahead with the monthly contribution to a PEP. This money was to be 
invested in the UK Growth Fund. The aim of the fund was described as to produce both 
income and capital growth by investing mainly in a diversified portfolio of UK quoted 
securities.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs G complained about the advice theyd received. They said it wasnt 
affordable, as Mr G (whose salary accounted for about two thirds of their combined income) 
was due to retire later that year. Mr and Mrs G also said they were novice investors with no 
real understanding of the stock market. They said the fund Santander was too risky, and 
they should have been advised to invest in something more cautious.
One of our investigators looked into things. She thought Santander had acted fairly in 
advising Mr and Mrs G. She thought the invested amount was affordable based on Mr and 
Mrs Gs circumstances. And she considered Mr and Mrs G were willing to take the level of 
risk presented by the UK Growth Fund in order to achieve their investment objectives.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree, and so the case has come to me for decision. They argued the 
monthly income surplus recorded wasnt accurate, and was likely to be severely impacted 
following Mr Gs retirement. They said theyd cashed in the investments after just two years 
to buy a car, and this investment should have been held for at least five years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Santander needed to give Mr and Mrs G suitable advice, that matched their needs and 
objectives, while remaining in line with their appetite for, and capacity to bear, losses.
The fact find records Mr and Mrs G were in their early 50s. While it notes Mr G was looking 
to retire that year, it goes on to say he will continue working after this and will have no 
problem continuing with his regular savings. Mr and Mrs G signed to acknowledge this fact 
find was an accurate reflection of their situation. I find this persuasive that the affordability of 
the ongoing investment was discussed, in light of their current and future income and 
expenditure. 
I think it was reasonable for Santander to advise Mr and Mrs G on the basis that £50 a 
month, between them, was likely to be affordable. They had a current monthly income 
surplus in excess of that. And, especially choosing not to make any lump sum investments, 
left themselves a healthy cash reserve in case of emergencies. 
While I acknowledge there was some uncertainty at the time, I think it was reasonable for 
Santander to think Mr and Mrs G could afford to invest the amount they did for the sort of 
time frame (5 years or more) this investment was intended to be held for.
Theres not much documentary evidence from the time of how Mr and Mrs Gs attitude to risk 
was arrived at, or what they understood about the risk their investments would expose them 
to. Ive thought about this carefully. 
I note that their maturing life policy was linked to an investment, and so I think its more likely 
than not theyd have had some understanding of the risk of investing their money. In their 
complaint Mr and Mrs G said they were aware the value of their investment could go up or 
down. Theyd expressed a desire to build a nest egg and focus their ongoing investment on 
capital growth and taking everything into account I think they were willing to take some risk 
in order to achieve those objectives.
The UK Growth Fund invested in a range of mainly UK equity shares. It exposed Mr and Mrs 
Gs money to the risk of significant falls if the markets overall fell sharply. But allowed the 
opportunity for it to grow by more than other, arguably safer investments, if things went well. 
They were advised to invest what I consider to be an affordable sum.
Over 5 years theyd have invested a total of £3,000 in this investment, and at the time of the 
recommendation had about £11,000 in cash savings as well as a further £5,000 in a TESSA.
Taking everything into account Im satisfied this was a reasonable investment for Santander 
to recommend as suitable for Mr and Mrs G. I think they could afford to bear the risk of loss 
they would be exposed to, and would have been willing to take the risk presented in the 
hope of achieving their growth objective. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman