DRN-1819848
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs M says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
It looks like Mrs M applied for her card by post, in her own time, and without any potential 
pressure from a salesperson. Her application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional 
features. It gave an overview of what the policy was for, then there was a box that could be 
ticked if Mrs M wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. The box does 
not seem to have been pre-filled in any way. It looks like Mrs M ticked the box for PPI in the 
same manner she ticked other boxes on the form, and then she signed the form to confirm 
her choices. So I think that RBS made it clear Mrs M didnt have to take out PPI, and that 
she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer remembers doing 
so after so long.
RBS didnt give Mrs M tailored advice about buying PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. It did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs M chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. And the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of Mrs Ms work benefits and covered her for far longer. So the policy would 
have been useful for Mrs M if something went wrong. And it was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mrs M could cancel the policy at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because RBS didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
 To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
RBS has to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
That means RBS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs M the 
difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mrs M 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, 
then I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman