DRN-2803661
The complaint
Miss R has complained about her previous car insurer Pukka Insure Limited as when she 
moved home she was told her policy would have to cancel, rather than just having the 
address updated. This lost her no claims bonus for the year and caused her to have to take 
out a new policy at a much higher cost.
What happened
Miss R had arranged her policy through her bank  its paperwork explains it offers policies 
from a few underwriting insurers. On 22 April 2020 Miss R called the bank to say she was 
moving home. Her new home was in a new estate about 30  40 miles away from her 
current property. At the time her policy with Pukka only had around three months left before 
it was due to renew on 10 July 2020 and Miss R would achieve a further year of claim free 
driving. The bank told her that the policy couldnt be changed to her new address and it 
would have to be cancelled. 
Miss R was unhappy and couldnt understand why her new address was unacceptable to 
Pukka. She searched on a comparison website for new cover, declaring in her application 
that shed had a policy cancelled. She took the cheapest of those offered via a business Ill 
refer to as Insurer1. Miss Rs policy with Pukka had cost her £341.46 for the year, her new 
policy premium for the year April 2020  2021, was £646.81. Further, whilst Miss R, at the 
time the policy with Insurer1 was arranged, was only three months short of her fifth claim 
free year, the premium could only include a discount based on four claim free years.
When Miss R complained to us, Pukka issued a final response letter to her. In that Pukka 
said different postcode areas have different claim histories and, on this occasion, it hadnt 
been prepared to offer cover for the new postcode. Pukka also said that whilst the policy had 
been cancelled, Miss R wouldnt have to declare this to future insurers.
When our investigator asked Pukka to show us that Miss Rs new address wasnt a risk it 
was prepared to offer cover for, Pukka said it couldnt do that. Pukka in fact said that it hadnt 
been given the chance to consider the option of offering cover at the new address as the 
bank hadnt called it to query the new address/policy cancellation.
Our investigator felt Miss Rs complaint should be upheld because Pukka hadnt shown us 
that it wouldnt have offered cover for Miss Rs new address. She said Miss R had paid more 
for cover for the period 22 April 2020  10 July 2020 than she would have done if the policy 
with Pukka had remained in place. So she said it should reimburse her that extra cost. She 
said it should also pay £100 compensation to acknowledge the lost opportunity in respect of 
the no claims discount and the inconvenience Miss R had been caused. 
Miss R said she was happy with the outcome. Pukka said it didnt think it was responsible for 
any extra cost Miss R had to pay. The complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Pukka did not direct the bank to cancel Miss Rs policy. But according to the 
policy paperwork the bank provides cover on behalf of several underwriters. And it seems 
that when Miss R needed to change her address the bank was able to refer to a set of 
underwriting criteria which told it whether or not Miss Rs policy, underwritten by Pukka, 
could continue at her new address. So Im satisfied that Pukka had authorised the bank to 
handle this type of task on its behalf. Whilst Pukka says the bank was wrong to do that  the 
correct process was for the bank to call Pukka, that merely evidences the fact that Pukka 
had an agreement with the bank as to how this type of situation should be handled. If the 
bank, acting as Pukkas agent, didnt follow that procedure, then that error fairly falls back on 
Pukka as the underwriter which has authorised the bank to act in line with an agreed 
process.  
Mid-term cancellation can have a big impact on policyholders because most insurers will ask 
to be told whether or not a prospective policyholder has ever had a policy cancelled by an 
insurer. When a cancellation by an insurer is declared many insurers wont offer a new 
quote. Or they might but only once theyve made enquiries to find out why the cancellation 
occurred  which means many price comparison routes for arranging cover are no longer 
available to the policyholder. Pukka says that Miss R wont need to declare this cancellation 
to future insurers. I take it from that, that Pukka has marked Miss Rs policy as having been 
cancelled by herself, rather than by it. If it has recorded the cancellation in any other way it 
should amend that.  
Where replacement cover is found, having declared a cancellation can impact the price of 
the premium offered. Cover is usually, but not always more expensive. But also if a policy is 
cancelled and cover needs to be found at short notice, that can cause the policyholder to 
need to pay more for cover as they dont have chance to shop around. Here, from what 
Pukka has told us, and the fact it hasnt been able to show it couldnt offer cover to Miss R, it 
seems her cover with it could have continued. If that had happened, she wouldnt have had 
to shop around or take out the new, more expensive policy with Insurer1. Of course I cant 
know for sure whether or not her premium with Pukka might have been affected by the 
change of address (meaning the cost of her cover might have increased anyway)  but 
Pukka hasnt shown us that it would most likely have charged her more. In the 
circumstances I think its reasonable to require Pukka to reimburse the extra cost Miss R had 
between 22 April 2020 and 10 July 2020 for her insurance via Insurer1 against the cost for 
her cover that had been in place with Pukka. In line with our usual approach, because Miss 
R has been out of pocket for this money, Pukka should pay interest* from 22 April 2020 
(being the date she paid a deposit for the new policy) until settlement is made.
Im not going to require Pukka to pay for the remainder of the extra cost with Insurer1 for the 
rest of the period of cover Miss R had with it. Thats because I cant know what might have 
happened and what Miss R might have been charged when she came to renew her policy in 
July 2020 (had the policy with Pukka remained in place until then).
Im mindful that the cancellation also possibly caused Miss R a loss in respect of her no 
claims discount. Thats because Miss R had accrued a further nine-months of cover with 
Pukka without having an accident  but, in respect of no claim discounts, only a full year 
without cover is taken into account. But all insurers take different approaches to no claims 
discounts, at least in terms of what that entitles the policyholder to. And as I said above, 
I cant be sure what policy Miss R would have found at renewal in July 2020 if Pukka hadnt 
forced her policy with it to cancel in April 2020. So it isnt clear what, if any, financial loss 
Miss R suffered in this respect. But I accept this caused her some frustration. I also accept 
she had to find new cover at an already very busy time, which was inconvenient. I think 
Pukka should compensate Miss R by paying her £100. Putting things right
I require Pukka to:
Make sure Miss Rs insurance record reflects that the policy was cancelled by her.
Reimburse to Miss R the extra cost she paid Insurer1 for cover between 22 April 2020 
and 10 July 2020, the extra cost being the difference between what she paid Insurer1 
for this period of cover and that which Pukka had agreed to charge for that period (before 
the policy was cancelled). With interest* added to that sum from 22 April 2020 until 
settlement is made. 
Pay Miss R £100 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Pukka considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Miss R, it should tell her how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss R a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Pukka Insure Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman