DRN-4094295
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a 
claim under their boiler insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M contacted Aviva to deal with an issue with their boiler. The engineer told 
them the required part was obsolete, so said the boiler was beyond economic repair. Mr M 
and Mrs M decided to replace the boiler, but were also able to find the part the engineer said 
was obsolete. They said Aviva should pay for the new boiler. Aviva said Mr M and Mrs M 
hadnt provided evidence of their engineers findings. It paid them £200 towards the 
replacement boiler, which was what the policy said it would do where a boiler was beyond 
economic repair.
When Mr M and Mrs M complained to this service, out investigator didnt uphold it. She said 
although it seemed that Avivas engineer had misadvised Mr M and Mrs M about the part, 
they didnt approach Aviva about their own engineers findings until after they replaced the 
boiler. She said as Aviva had paid the £200 in line with the policy terms and conditions, it 
didnt need to do anything further.
As Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Avivas engineer said the boiler couldnt be repaired because it couldnt obtain the part. Mr M 
and Mrs M were later able to obtain the part from a reputable company. Aviva now seems to 
accept that it would sometimes obtain parts from that company. So, I think Aviva misadvised 
Mr M and Mrs M about the part.
Following Avivas visit, Mr M and Mrs M arranged for their own engineer to inspect the boiler. 
Mr M and Mrs M have said their own engineer found a different issue with the boiler and that 
the part could be replaced. However, Mr M and Mrs M decided to replace the boiler. When 
Mr M and Mrs M asked Aviva to pay for their new boiler, Aviva asked to see the engineers 
report so it could consider it, but they didnt provide it.
Given Mr M and Mrs Ms engineer seemed to think the boiler was repairable, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to ask to see evidence of this. Aviva wasnt given the opportunity to 
check if it had got its diagnosis wrong before the boiler was replaced. However, if Aviva 
correctly assessed the boiler by saying it was beyond economic repair, then the policy said it 
would pay £200 towards a new boiler, which it did. If Aviva was wrong to say the boiler 
couldnt be repaired, it wasnt necessary for it to be replaced and Mr M and Mrs M knew this 
before they replaced the boiler.
In the circumstances, I think the £200 Aviva paid under the terms of the policy for a 
replacement boiler was reasonable based on the information available to it. As a result, I 
dont uphold this complaint or require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman