DRN-3044148
The complaint
 Mr F has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) that changes to its overdraft pricing 
structure and continuing to charge him excessive amounts for his overdraft caused him 
financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr F says TSB acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to his account when he was in 
financial difficulty. TSB didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr F was dis-satisfied he referred 
the complaint to our service.
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that TSB ought to 
have realised that Mr F was experiencing financial difficulty by September 2014 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. TSB 
didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that TSB acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from September 2014. By 
this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr F was in no position to sustainably repay what 
he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr F was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. TSBs own literature suggests that overdrafts 
are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. There were 
also a significant number of gambling transactions showing on Mr Fs statements. So I think 
that Mr Fs overdraft usage should have prompted TSB to have realised that Mr F wasnt 
using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
As TSB didnt react to Mr Fs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr F ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that TSB didnt treat 
Mr F fairly and he lost out because of what TSB did wrong. And this means that it should put 
things right. 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Fs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from September 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Mr F to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Fs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in September 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr F along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give Mr 
F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. TSB Bank plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman