DRN-2800500
The complaint
Mr A  on behalf of company (T)  complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) have unfairly voided his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
T holds a business protection insurance policy with RSA. It submitted a claim after 
sustaining extensive fire damage to its business premises in November 2018. While 
assessing the claim, RSA carried out some routine enquiries such as insolvency checks on 
individuals known to be connected with T, including Mr A. They discovered that Mr A had 
been an officer of several companies with insolvency issues that hadnt been declared at the 
point of the policys renewal in 2018:
Company HL had a liquidator appointed on 21 April 2015.
Company BSL had administrators appointed in March 2018 and a decision was 
made by creditors to wind up the company in May 2018.
Company BACS had appointed administrators in March 2018, and the decision was 
subsequently made by creditors to wind up the company in May 2018.
Company BIA entered into a creditors voluntary liquidation in October 2018. 
RSA said that they would not have offered cover if T had had made them aware of the 
insolvency issues with BSL and BACS prior to renewal in July 2018, so they voided the 
policy from this date on the grounds that T had breached its duty of fair presentation of risk. 
However, they agreed to refund the premiums it had paid. 
T complained that RSAs decision to void the policy was unfair. Amongst other things, it said 
that RSA was aware (or ought to have been aware) of the insolvency issues with the 
companies in which Mr A was an officer as these were covered in the press and also 
available on Companies House. T also said that these issues were not material in any event, 
as RSA would have still offered cover if the matters had been disclosed at renewal. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that T had breached its duty 
of fair presentation as it ought to have disclosed the insolvency status of BSL and BACS, 
which would have led to cover being refused in line with RSAs underwriting guidance. So 
the investigator didnt think that RSA had acted unfairly by voiding cover, as it was entitled to 
do so. T disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Section 3 of the Insurance Act 2015 imposes a duty upon the policyholder to make a fair 
presentation of the risk, including every material circumstance they know or ought to know 
would influence the judgment of a prudent insurer in determining whether to offer cover.
The policy was taken out by T on 2 July 2014 and subsequently renewed each year, 
including 2 July 2018. The original statement of fact sent by RSA set out the following:
 IMPORTANT NOTICE CONCERNING YOUR DUTY TO MAKE A FAIR 
PRESENTATION OF THE RISK
Before your Policy takes effect, You have a duty to make a fair presentation of the 
risk to be insured by Your Policy.
Our acceptance of this risk is based on the information presented to Us prior to the 
commencement of the Policy, and at subsequent stages in respect of mid-term 
changes and renewal. Provided the on-line question have been completed accurately 
and in good faith, and assumptions generated on the Statement of Fact checked, We 
will accept this as being a fair presentation of the risk.
So RSA had clearly set out Ts obligations with regards to the renewal and what it was 
required to do in order to make a fair presentation of the risk. The statement of fact 
highlighted the importance of T providing a fair presentation of risk and stated that it must 
notify RSA of any information contained within it that was incorrect or incomplete. Ts 
statement of fact included the below statement:
Neither you or your directors or partners or family members involved with the business or 
any other business has ever:
been declared bankrupt or insolvent or been the subject of bankruptcy proceedings 
either as private individuals or in connection with any business
been officers of any company that has been declared insolvent or had a receiver or 
liquidator appointed or entered into arrangements with creditors in accordance with 
the Insolvency Act 1986 or any equivalent or subsequent legislation. 
RSA didnt receive any notification from T or its broker to correct or amend the statement of 
fact upon renewal of the policy in July 2018, so the cover renewed on the basis that the 
above statement was correct. However, its clear from the findings of RSAs investigations 
carried out in April 2019 that this statement was not correct, as Mr A was in fact connected 
to multiple companies that had insolvency issues or arrangements put in place, most 
notably:
Company HL (of which Mr A was a director) had a liquidator appointed and 
commenced winding up procedures on 21 April 2015.
Company BSL (of which Mr A was a director) entered into administration in March 
2018. A creditors meeting was held on 18 May 2018 where the creditors agreed to 
the administrators proposals to wind up the company.
Company BACS (of which Mr A was a director) also entered into administration 
alongside BSL in March 2018. A creditors meeting was held on 18 May 2018 where 
the creditors agreed to the administrators proposals to wind up the company.
The above information is available on Companies House. And Mr A has not denied any 
knowledge of the status of his companies or the insolvency procedures that had or were in the process of being applied to them at the time of renewal in July 2018. Indeed, T accepts 
that BSL and BACS were in circumstances that constituted an insolvency situation. But the 
question is whether T ought to have disclosed this information as part of its duty of fair 
presentation.
Section 3(5) of the Insurance Act 2015 sets out that an insured does not need to disclose a 
circumstance if the insurer knew, ought to have known, or could be presumed to know about 
the circumstances. T submits that RSA ought to have known about the solvency status of 
Mr As companies as the information was available on Companies House as well as being 
covered in the press. But RSA state that they are not obliged to carry out background or 
credit checks on prospective customers seeking insurance or for those that are renewing 
cover. 
Section 5 of the Insurance Act 2015 also sets out what an insurer ought to know or is 
presumed to know for the purposes of the duty of fair presentation:
(1) For the purposes of section 3(5)(b), an insurer knows something only if it is known 
to one or more of the individuals who participate on behalf of the insurer in the 
decision whether to take the risk, and if so on what terms (whether the individual 
does so as the insurers employee or agent, as an employee of the insurers agent or 
in any other capacity).
(2) For the purposes of section 3(5)(c), an insurer ought to know something only if 
(a) an employee or agent of the insurer knows it, and ought reasonably to 
have passed on the relevant information to an individual mentioned in 
subsection (1), or
(b) the relevant information is held by the insurer and is readily available to an 
individual mentioned in subsection (1).
(3) For the purposes of section 3(5)(d), and insurer is presumed to know  
(a) things which are common knowledge, and
(b) things which an insurer offering insurance of the class in question to 
insureds in the field of activity in question would reasonably be expected to 
know in the ordinary course of business.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that any employee or agent of RSA knew of the insolvency 
issues of Mr As companies, had been told about it, or held any information such that they 
could be said to have known or ought reasonably to have known about it. 
I also do not consider that RSA could be presumed to have known this information either in 
line with section 5(3) of the 2015 Act. I appreciate the information was on Companies House, 
but Im not persuaded this could amount to common knowledge (i.e. in the sense that it is 
well known by people other than those involved with those particular companies) and neither 
do I consider it to be something that RSA would reasonably be expected to know in the 
ordinary course of business. T says this information was also in the press at the time, but 
Ive not been provided with any evidence of this to demonstrate the extent of any publicity 
surrounding the insolvency of BSL and BACS. So Im not satisfied that RSA could be 
presumed to know about the circumstances of these companies by virtue of any press 
coverage either, or that they can be reasonably be constructively fixed with such knowledge.
T submits that RSA have various regulatory obligations that require them to carry out searches and background checks of a nature that would be likely to reveal the 
circumstances of BSL and BACS at the time of renewal. But T has not specified or been able 
to point to any specific regulations that impose such an obligation on RSA. Im also not 
persuaded that there is any obligation that would have required RSA to complete ongoing 
background checks of every officer connected to every company it insures upon each 
renewal. This also ignores the fact that the onus is on the policyholder to volunteer every 
material circumstance in line with the duty of fair presentation, rather than for the insurer to 
have to find it out. So I do not consider that T can rely on section 3(5) of the 2015 Act to say 
it was not required to disclose the insolvency circumstances concerning Mr As companies, 
and Ive therefore considered whether this information could be considered material.
Section 7 of the Insurance Act 2015 sets out that a circumstance or representation is 
material if it would influence the judgment of a prudent insurer in determining whether to 
take the risk and, if so, on what terms.
Section 7(4) also sets out some examples of things that may be considered as material 
circumstances, which includes:
(a) special or unusual facts relating to the risk.
(b) any particular concerns which led the insured to seek insurance cover for the risk.
(c) anything which those concerned with the class of insurance and field of activity in 
question would generally understand as being something that should be dealt with in 
a fair presentation of risks of the type in question.
(d) anything that should be dealt with in a fair presentation of risks of the type in 
question.
T says that neither BSL nor BACS had officially been made insolvent in July 2018. But while 
I appreciate that may be so, its clear that they had commenced the insolvency process, and 
creditors had approved the administrators proposals in May 2018 for both companies to be 
wound up, which was over a month before the policy renewed in July 2018. So while I 
appreciate the entirety of the insolvency process had not fully concluded at renewal, it was at 
that point no longer a mere possibility, given it had already been agreed by the creditors 
committee that the companies would be wound up. 
So, given that the statement of fact declared that neither of Ts directors had ever been 
officers of a company that had been declared insolvent or had a receiver/liquidator 
appointed, Im satisfied that T and its officers ought reasonably to have known that the 
circumstances concerning companies BSL and BACS would have influenced the judgment 
of a prudent insurer in determining whether to take the risk, such that it ought reasonably to 
have disclosed this information as a material circumstance upon renewal. 
I understand that questions regarding the solvency status of companies (and its associated 
officers) are common for insurers to ask when assessing a commercial applicant of 
insurance, as the creditworthiness of the companies officers can understandably pose 
varying levels of risk depending on their insolvency history. So Im not persuaded the 
insolvency issues experienced by Mr As companies would not have been material in this 
instance. Indeed, if it were not material, there would be little reason for the insurer to seek 
assurance of such matters in their statement of fact in the first place.
Therefore, taking into account the insolvency situation facing both BSL and BACS in July 
2018, Im satisfied that T breached its duty of fair presentation by failing to declare it or 
correct its statement of fact upon renewal. Section 8 of the Insurance Act 2015 sets out the remedies for breach of the duty of fair 
presentation, but states that any breach must be a qualifying breach  i.e. one that induced 
the insurer to offer cover on different terms than they otherwise would have done  which the 
Act states can be either deliberate/reckless, or careless. The remedy an insurer can take in 
response to a qualifying breach is set out in Schedule 1 of the Act and is dependent on 
whether the breach was deliberate/reckless, or careless. 
T says that the non-disclosure of the information about Mr As other companies was 
immaterial as RSA would have offered cover in any event. However, RSA has provided us 
with the relevant section of their underwriting criteria, as well as a signed witness statement 
from their underwriter to demonstrate that cover would not have been offered if the 
information had been declared. Indeed, I can see from their underwriting guidance that more 
than one insolvency connected to a director of the insured company would have resulted in 
cover being declined, as well as the underwriter stating:
12. To confirm, based on the guidance issued to the underwriting teams
12.1. [HL] is subject to Members Voluntary Arrangement with solvent assets. 
Guidance requires no action in these circumstances (Liquidation).
12.2. [BSL] is in administration and is expected to be wound-up as an insolvent 
company (Company Insolvency).
12.3. [BACS] is also in administration and expected to be wound up as an insolvent 
company. (Company Insolvency)

13. The guidance requires a determination as to whether the administration of [BSL] 
and [BACS] constitutes more than one insolvency, which as two separate 
subsidiaries with separate assets and liabilities, would have been treated as such. 
Based on there being more than one insolvency at the time of the renewal quotation 
request, the guidance would have resulted in the Policy not being renewed in 2018.
Based on the evidence provided by RSA, Im satisfied that Ts failure to disclose this 
information induced the insurer to offer cover that it wouldve otherwise declined, such that it 
can be considered a qualifying breach for the purposes of the 2015 Act. I acknowledge that 
both BSL and BACS had not concluded the insolvency process at the time. But as Ive 
outlined above, both were expected to be wound up as insolvent companies by then, so I 
dont think it wouldve been unreasonable for RSA to refuse cover at that point in line with its 
underwriting guidance in anticipation of the impending insolvencies.
T submits that BSL and BACS respective administrations should be treated as one single 
administration, meaning it wouldnt fall foul of RSAs underwriting criteria to decline it (given 
that company H would not count as an insolvency as it was subject to a solvent members 
voluntary liquidation). But as the investigator has already pointed out, the witness statement 
provided by RSAs administrator makes reference to this point, where he explained that it 
would constitute more than one insolvency, as the companies were two separate 
subsidiaries with separate assets and liabilities. And despite Ts submissions in this regard, 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that the administration and winding up of these 
companies should be considered as a single insolvency. 
Indeed, both companies are listed as separate legal entities on Companies House, and each 
had its own separate paperwork filed in relation to the administration (appointment of 
administrator, and establishment of creditors or liquidation committee forms, for example). I 
can also see from the notice of administrators progress report that despite BSL and BACS being interconnected, they nonetheless had different assets. BSLs administrator sets out 
assets such as shares held in an unlisted private company, as well as book debts and the 
sale of BSLs computer monitors, whereas BACS report sets out assets such as securities 
and money held in bank accounts. So Im not persuaded that RSA have acted unreasonably 
by refusing to consider this as one single insolvency in the circumstances.
 I understand that T has requested to see the entirety of RSAs underwriting guidance, which 
the insurer has declined to provide. But whether or not the insurer chooses to divulge such 
information is a matter of their own commercial judgment, and I do not consider it to be an 
unreasonable exercise of that judgment to decline Ts requests in these circumstances. As 
Ive set out above, Im satisfied they have provided enough information to T and this service 
about their underwriting process and guidance to demonstrate that cover would not have 
been provided if T had disclosed the insolvency situation of Mr As companies. I do not 
consider it necessary to insist of the disclosure of their full underwriting criteria in order to 
draw this conclusion. 
In terms of the remedy available to RSA, the insurer has not stated whether it considered Ts 
qualifying breach to be deliberate/reckless or careless. Both enable the insurer to void the 
policy in these circumstances, but it informs whether or not they ought to refund the 
premiums to the policyholder. I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest that Ts non-
disclosure could be described as deliberate or reckless, but the insurer has chosen to refund 
the premiums in any event, which is in line with the remedy for a careless misrepresentation, 
which Im satisfied it was at the very least. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that RSA have acted unfairly by voiding Ts policy in these 
circumstances, as Im satisfied there was a careless (qualifying) breach of its duty to make a 
fair presentation of the risk, which led the insurer to offer cover they otherwise wouldnt have 
provided. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to T, but I will not be asking RSA to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A  on behalf of 
T  to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman