DRN-4018315
The complaint
Mr T complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) handling of 
his car insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr T was involved in a car accident which he reported to Advantage. Mr T says Advantage 
initially attempted to settle the claim on a 50/50 liability basis which he disputed. Mr T says 
there was evidence available to Advantage which wouldve proved he wasnt at fault, but 
they didnt consider this. Mr T says this led to his premium increasing at renewal and 
Advantage also retained his excess, so he complained. Advantage responded and explained 
they originally accepted a 50/50 liability split based on a review of the accident 
circumstances. They explained they reviewed the circumstances again based on Mr Ts 
accident report form and decided they did have grounds to defend the claim. They said, 
once this was established, action shouldve been taken straight away to retract the split 
liability offer but wasnt done until two months later. Advantage apologised for their error and 
confirmed theyd now retracted the split liability offer. Advantage later paid Mr T £200 
compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. He thought Advantages compensation payment 
of £200 was fair and reasonable and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr T will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr T. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. Advantage have admitted they got things wrong in a number of areas 
involving their communication with Mr T. They also accept they delayed in retracting their 
liability split offer as well as the impact to Mr T due to call queues and reduced access to 
systems. Advantage have paid a total of £200 compensation. The only issue I have to 
decide is whether the compensation paid is fair and reasonable. 
I think its right that Advantage should compensate Mr T for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation should be, Ive looked at the errors by Advantage and what the impact of that 
has been. 
Advantage initially made an offer to the third-party insurer to settle the claim based on a 
50/50 liability split. I acknowledge this upset Mr T as he maintained there was no 
responsibility on his part. However, the information shows Advantage sent Mr T an accident 
report form on two occasions in January 2022 explaining they need this to be completed to 
assist them in their liability investigations. Having not heard back from Mr T, Advantage then 
emailed the third-party insurer in March and, based on a similarity with a case law 
precedent, they made an offer to settle liability on a 50/50 split basis. I can see the third-
party insurer agreed to this. Mr T then discusses this with Advantage and maintains that he 
isnt partially responsible for the accident. Advantage then send Mr T another accident report 
form which he completes in April as well as providing images of the accident location. 
Advantage then emailed the third-party insurer in June retracting their split liability offer and 
holding the third-party fully responsible.  
I acknowledge Mr Ts frustration here, but I cant say Advantage acted unreasonably in their 
initial approach to assessing liability. They didnt have the information which Mr T later 
provided and, from the information Ive seen, its clear this information was material to their 
liability investigation and decision. That said, I do think they then delayed in retracting their 
offer to the third-party insurer. Advantage received Mr Ts completed accident report form 
and then emailed Mr T around two weeks later to say they would be progressing the claim 
based on it being a non-fault accident on Mr Ts part. But, they dont then contact the third-
party insurer to retract their offer until two months later  and this appears to have been 
prompted by Mr T calling Advantage for an update. 
Beyond this point, I can see Advantage contact the third-party insurer to recover their outlay 
and then instruct solicitors in November to prepare court proceedings as they dont hear 
back from the third-party insurer. Advantage explain, during this period, as there appeared to 
be a liability dispute, they needed to carry out checks for prospect of recovery 
considerations, allow the third-party insurer time to provide a defence and also a negotiation 
period for when their outlay was requested. So, taking this into account, I agree there has 
been delay but this is limited to the two months between Advantage changing their position 
on liability and retracting their offer. 
I understand Mr T wants Advantage to refund the £500 excess he has paid as he feels this 
wouldnt have been owed had Advantage correctly assessed liability at the outset. Ive 
already mentioned why I dont think Advantage made an error in their initial assessment but, 
even if I dont factor this in, I still dont think its unreasonable for Advantage to have retained 
the excess. Mr Ts car insurance policy booklet sets out the terms and conditions and it 
describes the excess as The part of the claim that you must pay, even if the damage or loss 
isnt your fault. So, the £500 was payable by Mr T regardless of the liability position. That 
said, I understand Mr T has spoken with the solicitors and theyve confirmed the claim was 
settled in January 2023. Mr T says he has spoken with the insurance broker and theyll be 
refunding him the £500 excess.   
Mr T also points out that his 2022 renewal was £171 higher than it shouldve been. He has 
provided evidence which shows he received two quotes and he feels the lower quote was 
available to him had Advantage dealt with the claim in a timely manner and reinstated his 
no-claim discount. I understand Mr T feels the £171 is a direct financial loss which has 
arisen following Advantages delays. 
Mr T feels Advantage delayed between April to November. And he says, given that the claim 
was settled by the solicitors two months after being instructed, had there been no delays by 
Advantage, the claim wouldve been settled prior to his renewal in August 2022. 
I acknowledge Mr Ts point, but I dont agree the claim would likely have settled prior to the 
renewal date. I say this because, Ive explained above why I believe the delay period was 
two months. So, if I apply this to the events which occurred from April, then I think its fair to 
say Advantage shouldve retracted their offer in April and then, following no response from 
the third-party insurer, shouldve instructed solicitors in September. And that being the case, its more likely than not  and applying the two-month period it actually took the solicitors to 
settle the claim - the claim wouldve then been settled by the solicitors in November. So, this 
wouldve been after the renewal date. And therefore, I dont think its fair to ask Advantage to 
reimburse the additional £171 he has paid.    
Taking this all into account, I think the £200 already paid by Advantage is fair and 
reasonable and I wont be asking them to take any further steps. I understand Mr T will be 
disappointed, but I wish to reassure him Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, 
but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman