DRN-3208008
The complaint
Mrs F and Ms S complain that when they bought a buildings and contents insurance policy, 
Brunsdon Insurance Brokers Limited (Brunsdon) didnt tell their insurer about their 
treehouse, and didnt tell Mrs F and Ms S that the tree it was built around wasnt itself 
covered by the policy. 
Most of our contact has been with Mrs F, so to keep things simple Ill refer only to her in my 
decision.
 
What happened
The history of this complaint is detailed and well known to all parties, so here Ill set out only 
what I think is the relevant background to the crux of Mrs Fs complaint about Brunsdon. 
In 2019 Mrs F bought a non-standard buildings and contents insurance policy through 
Brunsdon. Although Mrs F says shes used Brunsdon for many years, this was a new annual 
policy. 
In 2020, Mrs F claimed under the policy, as a storm had blown down one of her trees and 
damaged the treehouse built around it. The insurer accepted the claim for the treehouse, as 
an outbuilding. But there was a dispute about what a fair settlement amount should be. Mrs 
F complained to the insurer and ultimately brought that complaint to our Service. In a 
separate final decision, I set out what the insurer must pay Mrs F for the removal of the 
damaged tree and treehouse, and for reinstating the treehouse. But I said the policy didnt 
cover replacement of the damaged tree itself.
While communicating with Mrs F and our Service, the insurer said Brunsdon hadnt told it 
about the treehouse. As a result, Mrs F complained to our Service about Brunsdon. She said 
it didnt tell the insurer about the treehouse, and didnt tell her the tree itself wasnt covered 
under the policy. 
Brunsdon said Mrs Fs complaint was really about the insurers settlement of her claim, and 
Brunsdon wasnt responsible for the position she was in. And in any case, the insurer had 
agreed to pay for reinstating the treehouse. Brunsdon also said Mrs F hadnt asked for the 
tree to be covered under the policy, that cover for a mature tree wasnt available, and that it 
wasnt possible for a mature tree to be replanted. 
Our Investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to fairly conclude Brunsdon hadnt told 
the insurer about the treehouse, and noted the insurer had accepted Mrs Fs claim for the 
treehouse in any case. She said there wasnt a clear conversation between Mrs F and 
Brunsdon about whether the tree was covered as part of the treehouse, but it wouldnt have 
changed Mrs Fs position as it wasnt likely Mrs F would have been able to get cover for 
replacing a mature tree. 
Mrs F agreed there hadnt been any discussion about the tree, as shed assumed it was 
covered as part of the treehouse. Mrs F said Brunsdon was the professional and advertised 
itself as such, so it should have started a conversation to make clear the tree wasnt covered 
and ask Mrs F whether she wanted it to be, as it did with other things such as motorcycles 
and quad bikes. And Brunsdon had visited the property and knew it was insuring a listed 
property, so it should have known the tree was integral to planning permission for the 
treehouse. Mrs F said that if shed known the tree itself wasnt covered, shed have got a 
different policy that covered it. Mrs F provided our Service with evidence to support her 
argument that such a policy was available, as well as evidence that mature trees can be 
bought and replanted. 
Our Investigator didnt change her view. She thought Mrs F was now able to find a policy 
that covered a mature tree because shed asked a broker specifically about that, which 
wasnt the case when she was buying this policy through Brunsdon. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. At my 
request, Brunsdon provided further evidence about the sale of this policy. After considering 
this, I contacted Mrs F and Brunsdon to say I thought that during the sale of this policy, 
Brunsdon had provided Mrs F with a reasonable opportunity to ask for this tree to be 
covered if shed wanted it to be.
Brunsdon confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mrs F provided further comments and 
evidence, which Ive summarised:
Mrs F clarified Brunsdon visited in 2005 after she bought the property, and in 2012 after 
major building works, including the treehouse. Brunsdon would then call each year and 
ask if anything had changed. Mrs F accepted Brunsdon perhaps hadnt visited more 
recently. 
Up to 2017, Brunsdon placed their annual home insurance policies with an insurer Ill 
call insurer P. Mrs F provided documents that she thought showed insurer Ps policies 
covered the tree in question, and said shed have been mindful of this when the 
treehouse was built. 
During the sale of the 2018 policy, the year before the storm damage, Brunsdon moved 
them to a new insurer whose annual policy didnt provide tree cover. Brunsdon didnt 
properly assess the risk of changing insurer in the 2018 sale, and its own records would 
have shown previous policies covered the tree. Brunsdon should have noticed the tree 
was no longer covered and addressed that. If it had told Mrs F the tree wasnt covered, 
shed have got a policy to cover it, as shed shown she could. 
After discussing the treehouse with Brunsdon during the 2019 sale, Mrs F believed both 
the treehouse and the tree were covered. Brunsdon hadnt provided quality advice in 
2019.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to be clear that in this decision, Im not making any findings about the sale of 
the 2018 policy, in which Mrs F says Brunsdon sold her a policy that no longer included 
cover for the tree. Thats because Mrs F would need to raise a complaint with Brunsdon 
about the 2018 sale in the first instance, so that it has the opportunity to respond to that 
complaint. If Mrs F was unhappy with its response she could then bring that new complaint 
to our Service for an impartial investigation. Instead, this decision will only address the sale 
of the 2019 policy, as this was the policy Mrs F later claimed under for the treehouse and 
tree, which Brunsdon has had the opportunity to respond to.Ultimately, the policy Brunsdon sold to Mrs F in 2019 covered the treehouse she claimed for, 
under the buildings part of the policy. I say that because the insurer accepted the claim, and 
while it disputed the settlement amount, I made a separate decision about that which set out 
how much the insurer should pay for reinstating the treehouse. So I dont think its necessary 
for me to consider whether or not Brunsdon told the insurer about the treehouse. 
However, the 2019 policy didnt cover replacement of the tree itself. Mrs F feels very strongly 
that Brunsdon should have told her this when she was buying the policy. Mrs F and 
Brunsdon both agree the tree wasnt discussed during the sale process. Brunsdon says Mrs 
F never asked for the tree to be covered. And Mrs F says she assumed the tree was 
covered as part of the treehouse, as any reasonable person would. To think about whether 
Brunsdon has made an error here, Ive considered what Brunsdon and Mrs F did discuss 
during the 2019 policy sale.
Brunsdon said it didnt visit the property for this sale and didnt have a record of visiting 
recently. Mrs F has clarified that Brunsdon visited in 2005 and 2012, and accepts it perhaps 
didnt visit later. Regardless, Mrs F says Brunsdon walked around the property over the 
years and was aware of the treehouse and other features including a woodshed, fire pit, and 
chicken house. And that in later years, it would call to ask if anything had changed, and Mrs 
F would confirm it hadnt. During the 2019 sale, Mrs F says Brunsdon told her she needed 
outbuilding insurance as well as house insurance, and Mrs F agreed. That Brunsdon said 
she needed to specify she wanted outbuilding contents insurance, and Mrs F agreed. And 
Mrs F said Brunsdon didnt tell her the tree was excluded from the policy, although Brunsdon 
explained the policys other exclusions and made clear that motorcycles and quad bikes 
werent covered. 
Brunsdon has confirmed this was an advised sale. Brunsdon provided our Service with 
copies of sale documents, emails and call notes. Brunsdon hasnt been able to provide any 
call recordings, as it doesnt record its calls. 
Brunsdons note of a call with Mrs F on 8 July 2019 says Contents amount not enough and 
PH [policyholder] also made me aware of a large outbuilding/stable which is also on the 
property. They use this for a spa and different types of appointments eg: reflexology. Will 
need to re check buildings/contents amount as well as what insurance is in place at the 
moment.
Brunsdon emailed Mrs F on 10 July 2019 to say I do need to speak to you in regards to the 
building and contents policy for [your property]. From our previous conversation, it seems the 
property is under-insured and we will need to review certain parts of the policy. Brunsdons 
file note dated 12 July 2019 said No other insurance for buildings so will want all out 
buildings covered.
Brunsdon sent Mrs F an email on 17 July 2019 in which I think its fair to say Brunsdon set 
out its understanding at that time of Mrs Fs outbuildings. It said Still looking into different 
providers who can help with your circumstances but I do need a few more bits of detail. 
Please answer and return ASAP. It then asked a series of questions, including Do you 
want cover for the two outbuildings contents. Eg: Yoga equipment and horse equipment.
Ive not been provided with any documentary evidence showing that Brunsdon and Mrs F 
discussed the treehouse during the sale of the policy. However, neither Brunsdon nor Mrs F 
dispute that the treehouse was discussed. Brunsdon has provided a later statement from its 
agent, who says Mrs F mentioned the treehouse in a call on 30 July 2019, although the 
agent couldnt remember what was said and Brunsdon isnt able to provide any record of this 
call. In that statement, the agent says they then mentioned the treehouse when they called 
the insurer later the same day, and the insurer advised the treehouse would be covered under the policys buildings sum insured. Mrs F says she didnt record this call either, but 
afterwards genuinely believed both the treehouse and the tree were covered.
So during the sale of this policy, Brunsdon and Mrs F discussed the outbuildings and the 
treehouse, although I cant be certain what was said when the treehouse was discussed. Its 
important to note that policies dont provide cover for everything. Instead, they should 
provide cover for the customers stated wants and needs at the time they buy the policy, 
depending on the customers budget. Its also important to note that Mrs F took out a new 
policy each year.
Mrs F suggests that during the 2019 sale, she thought the tree was already covered 
because her previous policies with insurer P up to 2017 included cover for the tree. Mrs F 
says Brunsdon should have noticed the new policy with a new insurer in 2018 didnt cover it. 
As I say, Im not considering the 2018 sale here, as Mrs F would firstly need to complain to 
Brunsdon about that. However, I see the pages from the previous policy terms and 
conditions Mrs F has provided say:
Garden landscaping
Up to 5% of the building sum assured for garden re-landscaping following damage caused 
by fire, lightning, explosion, theft, impact by vehicles and aircraft, civil disturbance, acts of 
vandalism or by malicious persons
but not:
i) more than £500 for any one tree, plant or shrub
ii) damage to paddocks and woods
iii) costs relating to any undamaged parts of the garden
So this suggests a previous policy provided landscaping cover of up to £500 for one tree. 
However, that policys terms also specify this will be paid if the damage was caused by fire, 
lightning, explosion, theft, impact by vehicles and aircraft, civil disturbance, acts of vandalism 
or by malicious persons. In this case, Mrs Fs tree wasnt damaged by one of the specified 
causes, but was instead blown down during a storm. Given this, Im not persuaded Mrs F 
would have had a successful claim for her tree even if the landscaping cover was carried 
forward to her new policies from 2018 onwards, as Mrs F suggests it should have been. 
In an advised sale like this one in 2019, Id expect Brunsdon to take reasonable steps to 
establish Mrs Fs wants and needs for that policy at that time. But I think its fair to say that 
cover for a mature tree is very unusual and not something many customers would want or 
need. So even though this was an advised sale of an already non-standard policy, I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Brunsdon to have prompted a conversation about tree cover 
with Mrs F. Instead, I think its more reasonable to expect that if Mrs F specifically wanted or 
needed the tree to be covered when she bought this policy, she would raise this requirement 
when she was talking to Brunsdon about the treehouse during the 2019 sale. But she didnt.
I appreciate Mrs Fs strength of feeling now that the tree has been damaged and needs to be 
replaced. And I acknowledge Mrs F has more recently provided evidence to show she could 
have got a policy that covered the tree, as well as evidence to show that mature trees can be 
bought and replanted. But Mrs F has been able to show this because it is something shes 
now specifically sought cover for - its not something Mrs F asked Brunsdon to arrange cover 
for when they discussed the treehouse as part of the sale of Mrs Fs 2019 policy. Taking everything into account, I think Brunsdon provided Mrs F with a reasonable 
opportunity to ask for this tree to be covered, if she wanted, during the sale of the 2019 
policy. Therefore, Im not asking Brunsdon to do anything further here, though I realise this 
will be a very great disappointment to Mrs F.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman