DRN-1419261
 
Complaint
Mr M, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds), then trading Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in March 2000.
Background
Mr M bought the policy when he was applying for a mortgage. The policy provided him with 
cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
He says wasnt given a choice about buying the MPPI, it wasnt explained to him and he 
didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Mr M disagrees, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr M says he bought his policy at a meeting with Lloyds and that Lloyds made a 
recommendation that he should buy the cover. Lloyds has confirmed that it made a 
recommendation about buying the PPI. That means it had responsibility for ensuring that the 
policy was suitable for Mr Ms situation. Also, the information it provided about the policy 
needed to be clear enough for him to be able to make an informed choice about buying the 
cover.  
From looking the sale paperwork, I can see that Mr M chose not to take out PPI on his 
mortgage application form. Instead, he completed a separate PPI application form and also 
provided his bank details. I can see on the PPI application form that Mr M specified that he 
wanted 100% level of cover for his mortgage. So I think that Mr M thought about buying the 
policy and the level of cover he wanted. 
Ive kept in mind that Mr M bought the PPI around 20 years ago. So it could be that he may 
not recall exactly what went on during the sale  nor would I him expect him to. So based on 
what Ive seen about each sale, I think its likely that Mr M decided to buy the policy to help 
protect his mortgage repayments. I think he was or ought to have been aware that he didnt 
have to buy it. 
Mr M was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of the main policy exclusions. If 
he needed to make a claim because he couldnt work or lost his job, the policy would cover his mortgage payments for up to twelve months. Mr M hasnt told us he was entitled to any 
benefits from his employer. Given that the policy would pay out for up to 12 months I think 
Mr M would have seen the MPPI as being worthwhile cover if he was unable to work. It 
would help him to ensure his monthly mortgage payments were protected and he wouldnt 
be at risk of losing his home if he couldnt keep up the payments. 
The policy cost £17.55 per month and would cover Mr Ms monthly mortgage payments of 
£292.19. I cant be sure that Mr M knew about the cost of the policy when he bought it or that 
hed read the policy documentation that normally would have been given to him after hed 
bought the policy. But from what Ive seen he could afford the cover and so most likely would 
have been able to meet the monthly premiums.
I can see its possible there may have been some potential shortcomings in the way this 
policy was sold. But, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr M would still have decided 
to buy the policy if hed been better advised and informed.
Finally, Id like to reassure Mr M that whilst he may have received a refund of PPI premiums 
for other PPI products hed bought, he would not be entitled to any refund for the PPI he took 
with his mortgage. This is because the relevant court ruling only applies to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman