DRN-2588475
The complaint
Mr A and Miss A have complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged 
them an additional premium for their motor insurance policy.
Mr A and Miss A both have their cars insured on the same Admiral policy, which has led to 
this complaint. Mr A has taken the lead in bringing it. So, where I refer to his comments 
below those should be read as being on behalf of himself and Miss A.
What happened
Mr A had an existing policy with Admiral. In July 2019 he added Miss A and her car to it. The 
policy renewed in October 2019. Miss As premium at renewal was around £575, which Mr A 
paid. 
In November 2019 after checking Mr and Miss As details Admiral identified a claim incident 
involving Miss A, from a previous unrelated policy, which Mr A hadn't told it about. Admiral 
wrote to Mr A and said that it intended to charge him an additional premium. Mr A says he 
didn't receive that letter. The next month, December 2019, Admiral took around £380 from 
Mr As bank account. Admiral told him that was because he hadn't told it about an incident 
involving Miss A. And, if he had, it would have charged the additional sum when the policy 
renewed.
Mr A didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She didn't think Admiral had done anything wrong. 
Mr A didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
When Mr A added Miss A to the policy Admiral asked him if any driver on the policy had any 
accidents, incidents, theft or losses within the previous three years. Mr A answered no to 
that question. But that answer wasn't accurate. In fact Miss A had previously had her car 
insured on another policy with Admiral, and shed contacted it in May 2019 to claim because 
an exhaust component had been stolen from her car. Her car was uneconomical to repair. 
But, eventually, no claim was made against the policy. So, while Miss A hadn't made a 
claim, she had suffered a theft and a loss.
I can understand that Mr A may well have felt that - as Miss A hadn't made a claim - he didn't 
need to tell Admiral about it. But Admiral hadn't only asked if Miss A had made any claims. It 
also asked if shed suffered any thefts or losses, and the theft of the exhaust component was 
a loss to her. So that was something Admiral wanted to know about. It follows that, in order 
to answer Admirals question accurately, Mr A should have told Admiral about that incident.
If Mr A had done so Admiral would have factored that in when it calculated the risk it felt 
Miss A posed as a policyholder. And that would have affected the premium for Miss A both 
when Mr A first added her to the policy and also at renewal in October 2019. I've seen that 
Mr A doesnt believe that the theft of an exhaust component - that didn't actually lead to a 
claim -should affect an insurers calculation of risk. And while I understand his point of view, 
that doesn't mean Admirals done anything wrong.
As our investigators previously explained, were not the regulator of financial businesses, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. That means its not for us to tell an insurer like 
Admiral how it should go about its risks assessments. And by that I mean the risk Admiral 
calculates of a policyholder making a claim and how much it might have to pay out to settle 
any claims. Its those risk assessments which Admiral uses to inform the premiums it 
charges. 
So unless theres something fundamentally unfair in those risk assessments, for example if 
an insurer was in breach of equalities legislation or something similar, then we wouldn't seek 
to interfere with an insurers assessment of risk. That's something that each individual 
insurer is allowed to decide for itself. And in this case its plain Admiral thinks that it was the 
theft incident itself, rather than whether or not Miss A made a claim, which affected the risk 
she posed as a policyholder. I can understand why Mr A might not agree with that risk 
assessment but its an assessment Admiral is allowed to decide for itself. 
I've seen Mr A wants us to instruct Admiral to share its calculation of risk with him. But thats 
not something we will do. Insurers risk assessments and underwriting criteria (the rules it 
applies when offering policies and charging for those) and their statistics and methods of 
calculating premiums, are closely guarded commercial secrets. So those aren't things they 
will share with the public in general and it isn't information we will put into our published 
decisions. Admiral has shared some of that information with us, so that we could see if it had 
calculated the premiums fairly. And we accepted that information in confidence and we will 
keep it confidential. That means were not going to share that evidence with Mr A.
Ill add that before it took the additional premium from Mr A it wrote to him to explain what it 
was intending to do. But at that time it also offered him the opportunity of cancelling the 
policy, and only charging him for his time on cover at the original premium level. I think that 
was the right thing for it to do. Mr As said he didn't receive that letter. But it's not clear why 
that was as it was correctly addressed and posted to Mr A's home address. 
Mr A's since told us that cancelling the policy would have been time consuming and 
dangerous. And I note that Admiral also offered Miss A the opportunity of cancelling the 
policy when she rang Admiral to speak to it about the matter. But she chose not to do so. So 
it seems that Mr A and Miss A would have left the policy in place and paid the additional 
premium anyway, if Mr A had received the letter. Further the letter explained that if Mr A 
didn't make contact it would charge the additional premium. I don't think Admiral would have 
known that Mr A hadn't received its letter. And because it didn't hear from him, it charged 
him the additional premium. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman