DRN-3746644
The complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction 
on his credit card which paid for baggage for flights.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr S used his Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) credit card to 
make payment to a website for flights and baggage supplied by airlines which are separate 
entities to the website. Mr S has said the outward flights had sufficient baggage allowance 
included in the ticket, but the return flights didnt. So Mr S paid the website a further £119.99 
for sufficient baggage allowance on the return flights so he could bring back the baggage he 
was taking with him.
After purchasing these tickets Mr S received confirmation of booking but it didnt have the 
return baggage allowance described on it. So he raised the issue with the website which 
said it would sort out the issue. Mr S then bought a whole set of separate flight tickets with 
the appropriate baggage allowances. He then flew and asked the website to refund the 
unused flight tickets, but it wouldnt. So he complained to NBS.
NBS considered what happened. It raised a chargeback and after some back and forth Mr S 
received his £119.99 back that he paid for the extra baggage. NBS also paid him £50 for the 
customer service it had provided him. It also considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 and asked Mr S for further evidence regarding his claim. But Mr S didnt provide 
this. So it told him it couldnt come to a fair conclusion on his claim without this evidence. So 
Mr S brought his complaint here.
Our Investigator felt NBS didnt have to do anymore. And Mr S remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S used his NBS credit card to pay the website. This means that if certain criteria are met, 
NBS can have certain responsibilities to Mr S which arise from the relevant law, specifically, 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain 
circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr S to hold NBS liable for breaches of 
contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence NBS 
can be held responsible for a like claim as that which Mr S would have against the website 
in court.
Mr Ss NBS credit card is also part of a card scheme. And this scheme has rules which 
includes giving NBS a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as the 
website, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers, and it is 
possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful without NBS having done 
anything wrong.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about NBS and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr S fairly. This decision isnt about the website or 
the airlines, which arent within this Services remit for complaints about Chargeback and 
S75. I hope this crucial distinction is clear.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
After some back and forth NBS raised a chargeback and Mr S was credited the £119.99 he 
paid for the additional baggage allowance. The card scheme rules make clear that only the 
relevant transaction cost can be recovered through chargeback. Consequential losses such 
as Mr S seeks are not available through these rules. So NBS successfully raised a 
chargeback and Mr S was refunded this amount. So it did what it was meant to do. And I can 
see it paid Mr S £50 for its customer service (albeit sometime later when Mr S accepted it). 
So in relation to Chargeback I think NBS has nothing further to do to treat Mr S fairly.
Section 75
There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the website. I dont think I 
have to make a decision on these requirements because I dont think it makes a difference 
to the overall conclusion. Ill explain why.
Mr S has said I should note that the baggage was ultimately added, but only to the return 
flights and only several days after I had already arrived in (destination country).
Mr S has made clear that he didnt need the additional baggage on his outward-bound flights 
because those tickets provided sufficient baggage allowance within the tickets he 
purchased. He only needed the additional baggage on the return flights because he was 
flying with different carriers and their baggage allowance was significantly less than the 
outward carriers. So Mr S has made clear he was provided with the baggage allowance he 
paid for. So there was no breach of contract here as he got what he paid for.
Mr S has said because the baggage allowance wasnt on the booking confirmation he had to 
take action because he couldnt risk flying out and then having to either pay more for 
baggage or have some other negative consequences of this issue. I can see he emailed the 
website and on the 03 December 2021 the website emailed him saying:
we kindly request you to please wait once baggage will be added we will inform you.
This is a brief email and makes clear that the issue is being dealt with. There is no dispute 
that Mr S paid for the additional baggage nor is there any indication that the baggage cannot 
or will not be added. And as we know it was added as Mr S accepts. So Im not persuaded 
here that Mr S has been misrepresented here. The website made clear it was dealing with 
the issue and didnt indicate that there was a risk of the baggage not being added. So Im not 
persuaded that Mr S had no alternative other than to get separate flights. So I dont think it 
would be fair for NBS to bear the costs of any flights here as the website hasnt breached or 
misrepresented the contract.
Mr S has pointed to the customer service provided by the website here. But NBS is only 
responsible for breaches of contract or misrepresentations of the contract. It isnt responsible 
for any failings in communication here such as not having the baggage allowance on the 
booking or not getting the matter sorted prior to Mr S purchasing the new flights. And it is 
clear that the baggage allowance was in place when Mr S was due to use the return flights.I must also add Mr S has chosen not to provide the flight information and booking he made 
subsequent to the original booking. So it is far from clear when these were booked in relation 
to the communications Mr S was having with the website. And that is important as it goes to 
causation here. 
NBS said it couldnt come to a fair conclusion on Mr S S75 claim because he didnt provide 
it with key information. NBS is only liable under a like claim to that which Mr S would have 
with the website in court. So it is entitled to look into the matter, and it can ask for 
information. I dont think Mr S has lost out because of this. I say this because, for the 
reasons already given, Im not persuaded NBS should have met his claim. So although it 
hasnt made payment for the losses that Mr S says are consequential I dont think hes lost 
out because of this. I say this because I think it would be fair for NBS not to refund him for 
these amounts hes paid. Because Im not persuaded there is a breach or misrepresentation 
and nor am I persuaded these costs are a true consequence of any such breach or 
misrepresentation.
Furthermore the only issue which possibly needed rectification was the baggage. Mr S could 
always have purchased this additional baggage on return at additional cost and asked the 
website or NBS to refund him. There certainly wasnt any reason to rebook flights separately 
as there was never any indication of the supply of flights being breached or misrepresented. 
Theres no causal link her for Mr S to book separate additional flights. And no reason from 
what the website said for Mr S to be left in a position where his only or cheapest option was 
to rebook new flights. Im far from persuaded this was an unavoidable consequence here.
For completeness I shall now turn to some of Mr Ss arguments. He says First and 
foremost, central to this dispute is whether (the website) were responsible for the
additional baggage not being added to each of the four flights. I disagree. The key issue is 
whether, on the return flights whether the website breached the agreed contract by not 
supplying the additional baggage. But as Mr S says they did provide that. Ive considered the 
terms and conditions of the website and I can see it provides support in the instances of 
problems or changes being required to bookings. And I can see it committed to helping Mr S. 
So Im not persuaded that it breached the contract there. 
Mr S says its more likely that the website made a mistake here regarding the baggage. And 
I can see his logic. But its for Mr S to actually demonstrate a breach rather than NBS to 
demonstrate there was no breach. And ultimately having considered the terms and 
conditions Im not persuaded that Mr S has demonstrated a material breach or 
misrepresentation.
Mr S says The additional baggage was missing on the outbound flights (he names the 
Airline) also. However this is directly contrary to what he said to this service originally where 
he said By default both outbound flights had 20kg of checked baggage included, whilst the 
return flights had none. And Ive considered the booking information for this airline and I can 
see he had 20kg of baggage. And in any event this issue isnt material to my mind because 
Mr S has said in his original complaint that he booked new flights because he believed he 
didnt have the baggage allowance on the return flights not on the outbound flights. And Mr S 
says he travelled by different carriers in any event.
Mr S says with regard to not providing the information that NBS asked him to provide it was 
not provided as it served no purpose to NBS so long as they were unwilling to accept any 
error had been made by (website). But the onus is on Mr S to provide evidence requested 
and to demonstrate a breach of contract (which he has failed to do). And by refusing to 
provide evidence that may have helped demonstrate a breach Mr S has taken a course of 
action which enabled NBS to say it couldnt reach a conclusion as it was being deprived of 
evidence. So I think Mr S has taken a position which doesnt enable NBS to consider the matter properly or that gives him the best prospect of success. And that decision doesnt sit 
with NBS.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Mr S wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Ss avenues for recouping the cost of the flights will be significantly 
limited. But this does not mean that NBS has done anything wrong in dealing with the issues 
arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund him for what he calls consequential 
loss. Mr S chargeback was successful. And the additional costs he chose to incur were not 
a consequence of a material breach or misrepresentation by the website here.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr S has said, Im not persuaded 
NBS has treated Mr S unfairly. So unfortunately for Mr S his complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman