DRN-4268432
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service Scottish Widows Limited trading as Halifax Financial 
Services (Halifax) provided when he was enquiring about encashing his pension. He also 
complains that it took too long to get an appointment so that his requested fund switches 
could be actioned. And feels this led to a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr B had a Stakeholder Pension Plan with Halifax. He said the value of his pension was 
falling quickly between January and June 2022. Mr B was concerned by the reduction. So he 
contacted Halifax on 8 June 2022. 
Mr B wanted to take 25% of his fund as tax-free cash. He also wanted to make an additional 
taxed withdrawal of £50,000 from his fund. And then leave the remaining amount invested in 
his chosen funds until later withdrawal. I understand this required him to move from his 
existing Stakeholder Pension Plan, as it didnt permit drawdown payments, into a Retirement 
Account. And that such a move required an appointment with Halifax.
Mr B said Halifax told him that the earliest appointment to process his pension request was 
20 June 2022. He said he asked for an earlier appointment, but that none was available. 
Mr B made a number of calls to Halifax on 8 June 2022. During one of these calls, he 
instructed Halifax to make a fund switch. Halifax told Mr B that the switch would use 
tomorrows pricing for the calculation. Mr B confirmed he wanted to switch his funds from Gilt 
and Fixed interest to 50% High Income and 50% Property.
Mr B called Halifax again on 9 June 2022 for an update on the fund switches. He wanted to 
know what prices were being used in the fund switch calculation. Halifax said that the prices 
being used would be as at close of play 9 June 2022, the day after the switch request. And 
that the prices would be published the day after that, so 10 June 2022. 
Mr B felt that hed been provided with different information the day before. Halifax said Mr B 
could have a full breakdown of the prices used in the fund switch. But that itd take between 
five to ten days to be produced.
Mr B said he found an email dated 13 June 2022 in his spam on 14 June 2022. This was 
from another part of the business Halifax is part of. It said that Mr Bs recent request to: 
remove part of the lifestyle (Gilt & Fixed Interest) couldnt be done until Mr B confirmed that 
he wanted to remove all/a percentage of lifestyle from his pension.
Mr B said this led to him calling Halifax to check that the email wasnt bogus. And that when 
the people hed called couldnt help him, hed asked a person in the retirement team to bring 
forward his retirement appointment. But hed been told this wasnt possible. Halifax told Mr B 
that the online process he couldve otherwise used wasnt possible given his request for not 
just 25% tax-free cash but also for a drawdown payment. Mr B raised a complaint at this 
point. He said hed been losing fund value between 9 and 20 June 2022 and there appeared 
to be nothing he could do to stop this. 
Mr B said hed next spoken to another Halifax agent who told him that the 8 June 2022 
switch hed requested hadnt been carried out. He said at this point hed asked to switch 
from Gilts and Fixed interest to Property, rather than making the switch hed originally 
requested. I understand that at this point Mr B provided Halifax with confirmation that he 
wanted to exit the lifestyle strategy. And that the switch was carried using unit prices as of 15 
June 2022. 
Mr Bs pension funds transferred to the plan which enabled drawdown after the 20 June 
2022 scheduled appointment. Mr B received a letter dated 23 June 2023 telling him that a 
final payment of £121,917.89 in respect of his pension had been issued. And that his plan 
had now been terminated. 
Halifax issued its final response to the complaint on 29 June 2022. It didnt think itd taken 
too long to arrange the pension switch. It said that on 8 June 2022, Mr B had completed the 
first stage of a two-call process to encash his pension. And that itd arranged for his second 
call to take place eight working days later, on 20 June 2022. It said that during this call, it 
confirmed the payment details for Mr Bs tax-free cash and his drawdown payment. And that 
it set up his Retirement Account after that.
Halifax felt it couldve been clearer in its answers to Mr Bs questions. It offered him £50 for 
the poor service it felt hed received in this regard.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service in October 2022. He felt Halifax shouldve 
provided him with an earlier date to process his 8 June 2022 request, or it shouldve allowed 
him to freeze his fund value. He was unhappy that Halifax had only offered him an 
appointment on 20 June 2022. And felt it could and shouldve done more. Mr B felt that 
Halifaxs action had caused him a financial loss. 
Mr B also said that Halifax hadnt told him that while he was waiting for the 20 June 2022 
appointment he couldve switched funds. And that he only found this out on 15 June 2022. 
Later on, Mr B corrected this part of his complaint. He said he had known he could switch 
funds. And that hed tried to do so on 8 June 2022. But that Halifax had failed to action his 
instruction.
Our investigator issued his view on the complaint on 3 March 2023. He considered all of the 
complaint points Mr B had brought to this service, rather than just those hed already taken 
to Halifax. He didnt think that Halifax had done anything wrong when itd failed to offer Mr B 
alternatives to waiting for an appointment, such as freezing his fund value. He also didnt 
consider that Halifax had taken too long to action the transfer from Mr Bs Stakeholder 
Pension Plan to the Retirement Account so that his desired encashments could be arranged.
Our investigator felt that Mr B had been financially disadvantaged because Halifax had failed 
to follow his instruction on 8 June 2022 to switch his funds into 50% High Income and 50% 
Property. He felt that Halifax shouldve told Mr B on 8 June 2022 that he would need to 
provide confirmation that he wanted to leave the lifestyle strategy before it could action his 
switch instruction. And that if it had, his fund switch request couldve been actioned on 9 
June 2022. He felt that Halifax should put Mr B back to the position he wouldve been in if it 
had made no such mistake. He also felt that Halifax should pay Mr B £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience the switch delays had caused him.
Halifax didnt agree with our investigator. It said that some of the points hed considered and 
upheld hadnt been raised with it before. It said that Mr B hadnt complained to it that it hadnt 
executed his requested fund switches efficiently whilst he was waiting for the process to 
complete. Instead, he had complained that hed had to wait for an appointment. Halifax also 
said that Mr B hadnt brought up any of his additional points during the resolution call. Halifax asked this service to let it know if Mr B was raising a further complaint. And if so, to give it 
eight weeks to complete an investigation. 
However, Halifax told this service that despite this position, it had in any event carried out 
the recommended loss calculation. And that itd shown no loss.
The initial investigator left this service and a new investigator considered the complaint. 
Our second investigator didnt think the original complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Halifax had completed the redress calculation the first investigator had asked it to complete, 
which was based on Mr B having switched from Gilts and Fixed income into Property only. 
And itd shown that hed made no financial loss. She provided a summary of the loss 
calculation which showed that Mr B had actually made a very small gain. 
Mr B didnt agree with our second investigator. He said that the basis of his complaint was 
that Halifax hadnt actioned his initial instructions on 8 June 2022 to switch from 100% Gilts 
and Fixed Income to 50% Property and 50% High Income. He said this meant his complaint 
only related to the period from 8 to 15 June 2022 and the value hed lost during this period. 
And that it had nothing to do with the period from 16 to 20 June 2022, as Halifax had 
correctly followed his 14 June 2022 instructions. So he wanted the loss calculation to be 
based on the actual instructions hed given. Mr B also provided his own loss calculations.
Our investigator told Mr B that the loss calculation showed that the amount actually paid out 
on transfer was slightly more than it wouldve been, if the first instruction had been followed 
when Mr B had made it. 
Mr B reluctantly accepted that he hadnt made a financial loss. But he felt that Halifax should 
pay him the £200 the first investigator had recommended for the distress and inconvenience 
its failure to follow his first instruction had caused him. 
Our investigator asked Halifax to consider paying Mr B £200. But it didnt agree. It said that 
Mr B hadnt complained to it about his instructions not being followed. It also said that it still 
felt that the £50 compensation itd paid in respect of the lack of clarity of information was 
appropriate. And that itd only completed the loss calculation in order to provide assistance 
to this service in resolving the complaint. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr B. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
I first considered the original complaint Mr B made to Halifax.
Mr Bs complaint to Halifax
This related to the unclear information Mr B had been given when hed asked about 
encashing his pension. And his unhappiness that his fund value continued to reduce whilst 
he was waiting for his prebooked appointment on 20 June 2022. 
Halifax responded to these two complaint points in its 29 June 2022 final response letter. It upheld the service-related part of the complaint but didnt think it was responsible for the 
fund value falling.
I first considered Mr Bs complaint about the unclear information hed been given. I can see 
that there was a little confusion about the price that would be used for fund switches. 
However, this was quickly clarified. I also note that the Stakeholder key features booklet fully 
explained how switches would be priced. It states the following:
we normally value units at 12 noon each working day. Dealing is on a forward pricing 
basis. This means that we deal with instructions to buy or sell units at the prices at 
the first valuation point after we receive your instructions
If we get your switch request at our administration unit before 5pm on any working 
day, the switch will be based on the unit price at the next working day's valuation. If 
we get your request after 5pm, the switch will not be based on the next working day's 
valuation, but will be based on the valuation on the working day after that.
As Mr B didnt lose out because of the unclear information, and as the lack of clarity only 
lasted for a day, Im satisfied that the £50 compensation Halifax paid Mr B for this was fair 
and reasonable. 
I next considered Mr Bs complaint about the length of time it took to get an appointment, 
while his fund value was falling. Halifax said it provided Mr B with the first available 
appointment, and that this took place eight working days after his request. 
Mr Bs requirement to drawdown £50,000 of his funds as well as take his 25% tax-free cash 
meant that he couldnt make his request online. Instead, he had to book an appointment so 
the second stage of the process to encash his pension could be completed. Halifax couldnt 
do anything further for him at this point. I appreciate that Mr B wanted to act more quickly 
than this, and that it mustve been frustrating having to wait.
However, Halifax made an appointment for Mr B in eight working days. This appointment 
was required due to the regulations which were put in place to prevent customers being 
victims of scams and to ensure that they have enough time and information to make an 
informed decision about their pensions. Halifax has a service standard of ten working days 
for this important part of the process. I dont consider this to be unreasonable. So I cant 
fairly say it didnt anything wrong here.
I next considered the additional complaints that Mr B brought to this service, but which he 
hadnt asked Halifax to consider.
New complaint points
When Mr B brought his complaint to this service he made additional complaint points that he 
hadnt made to Halifax. He felt that as Halifax couldnt provide him with an earlier 
appointment date, it shouldve allowed him to freeze his fund value. He also said that it 
shouldve carried out his 8 June 2022 switch instruction. 
Our first investigator considered all of Mr Bs complaint points. But he shouldve only 
investigated the two points Mr B had already raised to Halifax. He didnt consider that Halifax 
had taken too long to provide an appointment, or that it shouldve offered Mr B alternatives to 
waiting for an appointment, such as freezing his fund value. And he felt that the £50 
compensation Halifax had paid Mr B for giving him unclear information was reasonable. So 
he didnt uphold the parts of the complaint that Mr B had already made to Halifax.I next considered the parts of Mr Bs complaint that our first investigator did uphold.
Our first investigators view
Our first investigator considered that Mr B had been financially disadvantaged because 
Halifax hadnt followed his 8 June 2022 switch instruction. He felt that Halifax shouldve 
enabled Mr B on 8 June 2022 to confirm he wanted to leave the lifestyle strategy, as this 
wouldve allowed it to action his switch instruction the following day. 
But Halifax didnt agree. It said Mr B hadnt raised this point as a complaint. Instead, hed 
complained that hed had to wait for an appointment. It also said that Mr B hadnt mentioned 
any of his additional complaint points when it called him to discuss the outcome of its 
complaint investigation. 
Halifax asked this service to let it know if Mr B was raising a further complaint. And if so, to 
give it eight weeks to complete an investigation. But said that despite this position, it had in 
any event carried out the recommended loss calculation. And that it had shown no loss.
I next considered our second investigators view.
Our second investigators view
Our second investigator didnt uphold the original complaint. But I dont think this was made 
completely clear in her view. 
Instead, her view focused on showing Mr B that Halifax had assessed that even if it 
shouldve followed his instruction on 8 June 2022, he hadnt made a loss. So I can 
understand why Mr B still felt that Halifax had made an error here. And that he was therefore 
entitled to the £200 compensation our first investigator had recommended for the distress 
and inconvenience that error had caused him. But I dont agree.
I say this because theres no evidence that Mr B complained to Halifax about its failure to 
follow his first switch instruction on 8 June 2022. So this service didnt yet have the power to 
investigate Mr Bs additional complaint about his 8 June 2022 fund switch instruction not 
being carried out, as he hadnt made this complaint point to Halifax and allowed it to 
investigate.
Halifax only completed the loss calculation it did to help this service to resolve the complaint. 
And this has shown there to be no loss. 
The two complaint points that Mr B did make to Halifax were considered by our first 
investigator, but he didnt uphold the point about the delayed appointment. And he felt that 
the £50 compensation Halifax had paid Mr B was fair for the unclear information. So he 
found no error. And he didnt uphold the original complaint. Therefore, I cant reasonably ask 
Halifax to pay Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the failure to 
follow his switch instruction caused him. But I note that Mr B still has the right to make a 
separate complaint to Halifax on the new complaint points our first investigator considered. 
In summary, when looking at the actual complaint Mr B made to Halifax, and which it 
addressed in its 29 June 2022 final response letter, Im satisfied that Halifax didnt take an 
unreasonable amount of time to complete the second stage of the retirement process. And I 
consider that the £50 compensation it has already paid Mr B for the unclear information was 
fair. 
I havent fully considered Mr Bs other complaint points. But he is still entitled to raise any new points with Halifax for it to consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman