DRN-4186754
The complaint
Miss I complains about the cancellation of her motor insurance policy by Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Aviva are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Aviva accept they are accountable for the actions of 
their agents, in my decision, any reference to Aviva should be interpreted as also covering 
the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Miss I and Aviva. In my decision, Ill focus 
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss I had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. Under the terms of that policy she had a 
telematics box fitted to her car. On 24 November 2022, Aviva wrote to Miss I to tell her they 
were cancelling her policy with 7 days notice. This was because the telematics box had 
recorded her speeding in excess of 100mph in a 70mph zone. 
Miss I says she didnt receive the letter due to a Royal Mail strike around that time. Aviva say 
they also emailed her on 1 December 2022 to let her know. Miss I says she was stopped by 
police on 4 December 2022 and later prosecuted for driving without insurance. She 
complained to Aviva. She says she had 6 penalty points added, lost her license, received 
fines, lost the use of her car, was unable to work and suffered psychological distress. 
Aviva didnt uphold her complaint and Miss I referred it to our Service for an independent 
review. Our Investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it not be upheld. 
As Miss I remained unhappy, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
My decision will consider whether the cancellation was fair and how Aviva have treated    
Miss I overall  including when making her aware of the cancellation. I note that Miss I said 
in her complaint to Aviva: the problem is not you cancelling the policy, the problem is you 
not making me aware that you had cancelled the policy. But for completeness, Ive also 
considered whether the cancellation was fair - as Miss I has continued to comment on that 
decision by Aviva after she referred her complaint to our Service. My decision wont consider 
the further complaint Miss I wanted to make about not being called back by Aviva. 
Was the cancellation fair?
Aviva cancelled the policy as the telematics box recorded Miss Is car driving at over 
100mph in a 70mph zone on 3 November 2022. Nothing has been provided to support that 
the telematics box is faulty or the data inaccurate. I note that Miss I says her car is incapable 
of driving at the alleged speed, but online research suggests that her car was capable of 
driving at over 100mph. 
The relevant policy term Aviva have relied on states:
I find that Aviva have fairly cancelled the policy given the evidence Ive seen and I find no 
mitigating reasons to conclude theyve acted unfairly or not in line with the policy terms.
The notification of the cancellation
At the heart of this complaint is Miss Is belief that she wasnt properly notified of the 
cancellation - which meant she couldnt mitigate not having insurance prior to being stopped 
by the police. Im satisfied that a notification of cancellation was sent with the required 
7 days notice. I say this because Ive seen internal system screenshots from Aviva. 
Its very unfortunate that Miss I didnt receive this letter prior to being stopped by the police. I 
agree this is likely due to the Royal Mail strikes on 24 and 25 November. I dont agree with 
Miss I that this means it shouldve been sent by courier. 
I say this because, crucially, a notification of cancellation was also emailed to Miss I on 1 
December 2022. This was prior to being stopped by the police. Miss I didnt open it until 
7.15pm on 4 December 2022, but I dont hold Aviva responsible for this as it was sent to the 
correct email address. 
Miss I has raised an argument about not actually receiving 7 days notification prior to the 
cancellation. I understand why shes raised this, but it doesnt change anything in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint. She had a reasonable level of responsibility to 
monitor her emails and had she done so shed have been aware that she wasnt going to be 
insured from 2 December and couldve either sought to arrange cover elsewhere or kept the 
car off the road until she did arrange insurance. 
I also note what Miss I has said about Aviva holding her phone number to let her know by 
phone or text, but in the specific circumstances of this complaint I dont find theyve treated 
Miss I unfairly when letting her know by email after sending notification by post. 
As Ive not found a failing around the reason for cancellation or the notification of it, this 
means that Ive not gone on to consider the impact that Miss I has described. This isnt to 
dismiss the impact, it simply means that in order to award compensation, I would need to 
have identified a failing. 
Other points raised by Miss I
Miss I raised an issue with being debited for her next monthly insurance premium shortly 
before the cancellation. Based on what Ive seen, this was due to be debited prior to the 
cancellation and then Aviva made a pro-rata refund after the date of cancellation. I dont find 
that Aviva have done anything wrong in this regard.
I note that Miss I was sent an email in error on 12 December 2022. Aviva have said this was 
down to human error. Given the policy had already been cancelled, I find that it has no 
material bearing on the outcome of this complaint.  
In her complaint form to our Service, Miss I said: I want the process of cancellation to be 
change because this had such a negative impact on my life. Nobody should have to go 
through this, it could have been prevented by just sending a text message or even phonically 
prior to cancellation. Whilst I understand why Miss I has raised this point, its beyond my 
remit to direct a business to change their internal processes or terms related to cancellation. 
My decision will disappoint Miss I, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve her dispute with Aviva. Miss I retains all other dispute resolution 
options. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman