DRN-3363787
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has failed to provide him with on-going support and 
advice regarding his pension savings.
What happened
Following advice from another regulated firm, Mr M opened a pension policy in 1986. That 
pension policy was provided by a firm I will call A. Initially A paid renewal commission to the 
regulated firm in respect of Mr Ms pension arrangements. 
It appears that Mr M has had a long-standing business and personal relationship with 
Lloyds. I can see that Lloyds provided financial advice to Mr M in relation to his pension, his 
mortgage, and other matters, in late 1991 and 1992. In August 1992 A noted that Lloyds had 
become the servicing agents for Mr Ms pension and the renewal commission was switched 
to that firm. In 1994, Lloyds added a note to Mr Ms file confirming that he didnt need any 
further advice at present.
In 1996 Mr M suffered a serious injury that has left him unable to work ever since. His 
pension policy contained a waiver of premium (WOP) insurance benefit so, after a 
six-month payment holiday, a claim was accepted and his pension contributions were paid 
by the insurer until he reached 60 years of age in 2020. A has said that once the premiums 
were being paid by the insurer Lloyds was no longer entitled to receive the renewal 
commission  but it notes it didnt stop making those payments until 2010.
Mr M complains that the commission payments Lloyds received should have meant that it 
was responsible for providing him with ongoing advice about his pension investments. He 
says that he has not received any information, or support, from Lloyds over the years 
meaning that the value of his pension savings is far lower than it might have been. And he 
says that A has sent a number of communications to Lloyds that it has failed to pass on to 
him.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He said that he hadnt 
seen any evidence that Lloyds had agreed to provide ongoing advice about Mr Ms pension 
investments. Nor had he seen anything to suggest that A had sent information to Lloyds that 
it had failed to pass on to Mr M. He said the renewal commission that Lloyds received was 
being paid by A, rather than Mr M. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Lloyds. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr Ms submissions to this Service have been detailed and comprehensive. It is clear how 
much effort he has invested into making this complaint. But, within this decision I wont be
responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the
informal nature of this Service.
My role is to focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint which means I will only
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may also
mean I dont comment on everything Mr M has said but I can confirm I have read and 
carefully considered everything that has been submitted by all parties.
I should also make it clear that, in this decision, I am only considering whether Lloyds has 
done anything wrong. It is apparent that Mr M also has concerns over the actions of A, and 
in particular how it has applied the premiums paid under his WOP policy and in its 
communications with him. But those are not matters that should be dealt with here and so 
wont form any part of my consideration of this complaint.
It seems that some of the background to this complaint isnt in dispute. Mr M originally 
received advice from another regulated firm in 1986 that led to him starting to make pension 
contributions to this policy. And then, in 1992, Lloyds was added as the servicing agent for 
his plan. That meant that Lloyds started to receive renewal commission from that time.
Renewal commission was paid by a product provider to a financial advisor on an ongoing 
basis. Whilst often funded by a deduction from the contributions paid, having no advisor, or 
no renewal commission being paid, wouldnt increase the value of the pension contributions 
 the same level of deductions would be made, and simply retained by the product provider. 
Following what was known as the Retail Distribution Review in 2012, it was no longer 
allowed for renewal (or trail) commission to be paid from new investments  but existing 
arrangements were allowed to continue. The FCA said at that time that it hoped this would 
help ensure more transparency on the charges consumers paid to, and the services they 
received from, their financial advisors.
From the evidence I have seen, the advice that Lloyds gave to Mr M about his pension 
investments, in the early 1990s, was transactional in nature. Mr M generally presented a 
situation to Lloyds, such as needing to extend his mortgage cover, and Lloyds 
recommended a solution.
But I havent seen anything that makes me think there was a formal arrangement in place 
under which Lloyds agreed to provide Mr M with ongoing management, or unsolicited 
advice, about his pension savings. There is no doubt that Mr M had an ongoing relationship 
with Lloyds in relation to his banking activities. That relationship often crossed into other 
areas of financial advice. And from time to time Lloyds would approach Mr M to offer its 
services in relation to specific financial products. But I think all that falls someway short of what I would expect to see if an ongoing advisory relationship was in place in relation to 
Mr Ms pension savings.
I am very conscious of the fact that Mr M appears to have suffered a serious, and ongoing, 
episode of ill health from 1996 onwards. And that would no doubt have taken much of his 
focus away from his financial investments. But Im not persuaded that, at some time in the 
intervening 25 years he wouldnt have thought it unusual that he hadnt been proactively 
approached by Lloyds to discuss his pension investments. If Mr M thought that Lloyds was 
providing him with ongoing advice, I think it would have been unlikely that he wouldnt have 
reviewed the services that he thought Lloyds was providing.
Mr M has said on a number of occasions that A has told him that it sent important 
information to Lloyds that it expected to be passed on to him. But I havent seen any 
evidence of those letters, or even an acknowledgement from A that supports Mr Ms 
testimony. In his assessment, our investigator made it clear that without that evidence it 
would be unreasonable to conclude that Lloyds has acted incorrectly. Mr M hasnt provided 
anything to rebut that conclusion. So for similar reasons, I cannot fairly conclude that Lloyds 
has treated Mr M unfairly by not passing on important information that it received from A.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr M. As I said earlier he has clearly 
invested a great deal of time in preparing and developing his complaint. And it might be 
entirely true that he, mistakenly, thought that Lloyds was providing him with ongoing advice 
and servicing of his pension investments. But I dont think that conclusion is supported either 
by the evidence of any agreement to that effect at the outset of their relationship, or by 
Mr Ms actions in the intervening years.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman