DRN-3339541
The complaint
H  a company  has complained that Think Insurance Services Limited (Think Insurance), 
made a mistake when setting up its commercial motor insurance policy, which resulted in 
one of its cars being seized by the police and destroyed.
What happened
In January 2021 Think Insurance  in its role as a broker  sold H a commercial motor 
insurance policy covering a number of its cars. The policy taken out covered the owner of H 
 Ms I  and one employee.
In April 2021 Ms Is father (Mr I) was pulled over by the police because the car he was 
driving appeared to be uninsured. The police contacted the underwriter of Hs policy, who 
confirmed that Mr I was not insured to drive the car.
The car was seized by the police and impounded. It was later crushed. 
The underwriter took the decision to cancel Hs policy because of conflicting information 
provided by Ms I and her father as to when H purchased the car from Mr I.
H complains that the reason the police pulled over the car is because Think Insurance input 
the incorrect registration for it when setting up the policy. H has also complained that Mr I 
should have been covered to drive the car under his own policy and about the underwriters 
decision to cancel its policy.
Our investigator considered Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She explained 
that any concerns about the decision to cancel the policy would need to be raised with the 
underwriter  not Think Insurance. She said, having listened to the sales call, that it was Ms I 
who gave the incorrect registration number. And she explained that Mr I was shown as the 
registered owner of the car on the DVLA systems. So, she said his driving other cars cover 
would not cover him for driving this car because he was its registered owner.
H didnt agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider things. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
H has raised numerous concerns at various points throughout her complaint. These include: 
Think Insurance was responsible for the car being pulled over  due to inputting the 
wrong registration when setting up the policy. 
Think Insurances agents have acted unprofessionally.
The policy was mis-sold by Think Insurance.
The policy was unfairly cancelled.
H was the registered owner of the car, not Mr I, and so he should have been covered 
to drive the car under the driving other cars cover in his own motor insurance policy.
Its car was crushed, resulting in a financial loss of around £5,000.
In this decision, Im only able to consider Hs complaint about Think Insurances actions as 
the broker of the policy. And, only those actions which H has already complained about to 
Think Insurance.
H has not made a complaint to Think Insurance about the policy being mis-sold to it. So, Ill 
not be making any further comment on that in this decision. If H wishes to pursue a 
complaint about policy being mis-sold, it should raise a complaint with Think Insurance in the 
first instance. Should H remain unhappy, following Think Insurances final response to this 
complaint, it may then refer its concerns about this issue to our service.
Hs concerns about the cancellation of its policy and the information given to the police relate 
to the actions of the policy underwriter  not Think Insurance. So, Im not able to consider 
those concerns as part of this complaint. Should H wish to pursue a complaint about this, it 
should raise a complaint with the underwriter in the first instance. Should H remain unhappy, 
following the underwriters final response to this complaint, it may then refer its concerns 
about this issue to our service.
I also wont be addressing Hs concerns regarding who the registered keeper of the car was 
at the time of the stoppage or whether Mr I ought to have been insured to drive the car. This 
is because Think Insurance isnt responsible for who the register keeper was or for what 
cover Mr I would or wouldnt have under his own insurance policy.
This means the only issue Im considering, as part of this complaint, is whether 
Think Insurance input the wrong registration, for the car in question, when setting up the 
policy. And if it did, whether H has suffered a loss or been unduly impacted by this error. Ill 
also consider Hs concerns with the professionalism of Hs staff during her complaint.
Ive listened to a recording of the relevant sales call. During the call, Ms I (on behalf of H) 
provides Think Insurance with the registrations of several cars she wants to be covered 
under the policy. She gives the registration numbers phonetically. For the car in question it is 
Ms I who gave the incorrect registration, rather than Think Insurance recording it incorrectly.
H has argued that Think Insurance ought to have checked or verified the accuracy of the 
information using relevant industry databases. But Think Insurance has explained that it has 
no facility to do so, and that H, as a commercial entity, is fully responsible for the accuracy of 
the information provided.
At the point of sale, I can see that Think Insurance supplied H with information regarding the 
Duty of Disclosure and Fair Presentation. On the first page of this document, in large, bold 
font it states:
REMEMBER  you are responsible for the accuracy and completeness of all the 
information you provide to us and your insurer.In addition, Think Insurance provided numerous documents from the underwriter, which 
reiterated that it was Hs responsibility to provide accurate information and/or check the 
accuracy of information provided.
Based on all of the available evidence, I dont consider that Think Insurance made an error 
with the registration when setting up the policy. H was responsible for providing accurate 
information, and for checking the accuracy of the information provided. But in this case, it 
was Ms I (on behalf of H) who gave the incorrect registration number to Think Insurance. So, 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that Think Insurance is 
responsible for the registration being incorrect  or by extension for the issues which 
occurred when Mr I was stopped by the police in April 2021.
Ms I (on behalf of H) has also complained that she has been spoken with unprofessionally 
by agents of Think Insurance during the complaint. But having listened to the relevant call 
recordings, I dont agree this was the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman