DRN-2969187
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc unfairly declined to extend the term of his interest 
only mortgage. Mr S is represented by his partner, who Ill refer to as Mrs S.
What happened
Mr S took out a repayment mortgage in 2010, with a 24-year term. His circumstances 
changed and he couldnt afford the contractual monthly payments. Clydesdale agreed to 
switch the mortgage to interest only payments from 2016. It also reduced the remaining term 
to five years.
In 2020 Mr S asked to extend the mortgage term for five years. He says this will allow his 
children to finish school and learn to drive before they downsize and move out of the area. 
He says he could make overpayments or switch to part repayment if this is affordable. This 
will increase his equity when he does sell.
Clydesdale said the original repayment mortgage became unaffordable in 2014 when Mr Ss 
income fell significantly. It says theres little prospect of this changing. Clydesdale says 
theres enough equity for Mr S to buy another home in a less expensive area. Clydesdale 
said while Mr S might intend to make some overpayments, the higher running costs of a 
large property would make this more difficult. It said Mr S will be in the same position after a 
further five years.
Clydesdale said it offered the interest only mortgage in 2016 to give Mr S time to downsize. 
It said the mortgage was unaffordable and it relied on the transitional provisions when it 
offered it. It says it cant rely on the transitional provisions to extend this mortgage, as it was 
taken out in 2016. 
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out why I thought Clydesdale should:
Extend the term of Mr Ss mortgage to 1 July 2022, to allow him time to explore his 
options with Clydesdale. 
Make an appointment for Mr S to meet with its mortgage adviser to explore his options.
If the only means to repay the mortgage is the sale of the property, consider whether a 
five-year term extension on an interest only basis is in Mr Ss best interests.
Clydesdale didnt respond with substantive comments. Mrs S responded on behalf of Mr S, 
saying theyd had an upsetting call from Clydesdale since my provisional decision, telling 
them they had to sell the house. She said her doctor had prescribed medication for the 
anxiety this has caused and advised her to avoid stressful situations. Mrs S asked if a 
financial adviser could attend the appointment with them. She said she wasnt hopeful about 
the outcome given the difficulties theyd had with Clydesdale over the past year or so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S took out a repayment mortgage in 2010. His monthly payments became unaffordable in 
2014. The repayment mortgage was replaced in 2016 with an interest only mortgage for 
about £525,000. Clydesdales records say that while Mr S had started a new role and Mrs S 
was working their overall income wasnt enough for a repayment mortgage. It recorded that 
Mr S planned to downsize after five years, when his children were at senior school.
Mrs S says they didnt expect to have to repay the mortgage after five years: they expected 
to be able to switch back to a repayment mortgage. She says if theyd know this wasnt 
possible theyd have used Mr Ss pension money towards payments instead of switching.
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. Mr S wants to vary his mortgage by 
extending the term.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014. First, where an 
existing mortgage is to be varied and theres no change to its terms likely to be material to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt apply, the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 and the proposed change is in the borrowers best interests.
Clydesdale says these exceptions dont apply as Mr Ss mortgage was taken out after 2014. 
I dont think its right. I think the exceptions also apply where a mortgage is taken out to 
replace a mortgage taken out before 2014 in reliance on the transitional provisions (as was 
the case here).
I think Clydesdale can rely on the second exception: it can extend Mr Ss mortgage 
regardless of affordability or repayment strategy if this is in Mr Ss best interests. I should 
say here that while the regulations dont require Clydesdale to carry out an affordability 
assessment, this doesnt mean it cant. It might well be reasonable for it to carry out an 
affordability assessment as part of assessing whats in Mr Ss best interests.
Clydesdale made some valid points about this. At the moment, theres enough equity in the 
property for Mr S to repay the mortgage and have enough funds left to buy a new home, 
albeit in a different area. Theres no guarantee the value of the property wont fall in future, 
which could leave Mr S worse off at the end of an extended term. And hed have paid more 
interest in the meantime.
However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Clydesdale has properly considered Mr Ss 
circumstances to assess whats in his best interests.
Clydesdales notes say it was unable to assess Mr Ss income in 2016 as hed recently 
started a new role. I cant see that Clydesdale has carried out an affordability assessment 
recently, or looked into whether Mr S could afford to switch back to a repayment or part 
repayment mortgage. Mr S wont reach state retirement age for more than 20 years: this 
provides some scope for a longer term which would make monthly repayments of capital 
more affordable. Mr S has a pension lump sum which could potentially be used to reduce the 
mortgage balance, making monthly repayments more affordable. I dont know if its possible 
for Mrs S to become a party to the mortgage so that her income can be taken into account.
I havent seen evidence that Clydesdale considered whether a five-year extension on an 
interest only basis was in Mr Ss best interests. He doesnt want to move out of the area until his children leave school. Selling the property now would mean moving to a smaller property 
nearby, and then moving again to a less expensive area once the children leave school.
Mr S agreed to a five-year term in 2016. Its not clear if he asked for a five-year term, or if he 
agreed to it because that was what was offered. Either way, this doesnt in itself mean it isnt 
now in his best interests to extend the term.
Clydesdale showed forbearance in 2014 and 2016, when Mr Ss change in circumstances 
meant he couldnt afford his monthly payments. But its duty to treat Mr S fairly didnt end 
there. I dont think it was fair for Clydesdale to decline Mr Ss request to extend the term for 
another five years without assessing whether this is in his best interests.
Putting things right
Mr Ss original mortgage was due to expire in 2034. So extending the mortgage for another 
five years wouldnt mean Clydesdale waiting longer to be repaid than it expected when it lent 
the money. Mrs S says Clydesdale commented that the interest rate was very low. However, 
this is the lifetime tracker rate that applied when Mr S took out the mortgage. So again, this 
is the basis on which it lent the money.
Theres a risk of property prices falling during an extension. However, theres significant 
equity in Mr Ss property. This reduces the risk to Clydesdale (and indeed Mr S) of a shortfall 
if prices fall. Mr S has maintained monthly payments, and made small regular overpayments.
Our investigator said extending the term on an interest only basis for five years is in Mr Ss 
best interests. I think though that Clydesdale needs to do more to assess whats in Mr Ss 
best interests, and what options it might be able to offer.
Mr S and Mrs S have, understandably, found this matter stressful. Mrs S says they asked for 
an extension in spring 2020, but they didnt find Clydesdale to be helpful or supportive. The 
term of Mr Ss mortgage has now expired. In view of this, I think its fair and reasonable to 
require Clydesdale to:
Extend the term of Mr Ss mortgage to 1 July 2022, to allow him time to explore his 
options with Clydesdale.
Make an appointment for Mr S to meet with its mortgage adviser to explore his options.
If the only means to repay the mortgage is the sale of the property, consider whether a 
five-year term extension on an interest only basis is in Mr Ss best interests.  
Mrs S has said how difficult theyve found dealing with Clydesdale, and that theyve had 
threatening calls since my provisional decision.
Our investigator asked Clydesdale if it had contacted Mr and Mrs S since my provisional 
decision. It said it had contacted them about their direct debit payment ending when the 
mortgage term expired, to let them know theyd need to set up payments in a different way. 
Mrs S says shes done this. And Clydesdale said there might have been a misunderstanding 
between different teams about what was happening with Mr Ss complaint  which it has now 
put right. I wont make any findings here about whether the contact from Clydesdale was 
appropriate or fair, as this isnt part of the complaint brought to us.
Mr and Mrs S will need to be in contact with Clydesdale to discuss their circumstances, and I 
do appreciate that they find this upsetting. It seems theyve contacted an independent 
financial adviser and I hope that will assist them in exploring their options. I cant see any 
reason why their financial adviser, and indeed Mrs S, shouldnt also attend the appointment 
with the mortgage adviser if thats what Mr S wishes. Mr S can ask Clydesdale to confirm whats agreed in writing, to avoid any misunderstanding. 
Id remind Clydesdale of its duty to treat Mr S fairly. And when it communicates with Mr and 
Mrs S it should take into account what theyve told it about their health.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Clydesdale Bank Plc to:
Extend the term of Mr Ss mortgage to 1 July 2022, to allow him time to explore his 
options with Clydesdale.
Make an appointment for Mr S to meet with its mortgage adviser to explore his options. 
If the only means to repay the mortgage is the sale of the property, consider whether a 
five-year term extension on an interest only basis is in Mr Ss best interests.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman