DRN-4492510
The complaint
Mr W complains about Your Money Management Ltd trading as Your Money Claim (YMM) 
and the service they provided him which he feels was discriminatory.
What happened
The events and circumstances that led to Mr Ws complaint are well known to both parties. 
So, I dont intend to list a chronological timeline of what happened. But to summarise, Mr W 
engaged YMMs service in June 2022. And following this, they sent Mr W a printed letter of 
authority (LOA) asking that he provide a wet signature.
But Mr W was unable to provide this signature due to his disabilities which impacted his 
dexterity. He made YMM aware of this in September 2022, raising a complaint about this 
request explaining why he felt it was discriminatory. YMM responded to this complaint 
apologising, and they took the decision to end the agreement at no cost to Mr W. But they 
continued to chase Mr W for a signature in error after this date. And Mr W didnt think it had 
been made clear to him the agreement had been ended. So, he referred his complaint to our 
service.
A jurisdiction decision was issued explaining the complaint was one we could consider. And 
following this decision, YMM put forward a settlement offer of £100, accepting Mr Ws claim 
had been reopened in September 2022 when it shouldnt have. This offer was put to Mr W, 
but he rejected it, as he didnt think it was enough to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Our investigator continued to investigate the complaint, and they upheld it. They thought 
YMM couldve done more to assist Mr W when he made them aware of his disabilities. And 
they thought Mr W had been negatively impacted by YMMs error in reopening the claim, 
which they acknowledged had been accepted. So, considering the above and their belief Mr 
W had most likely not received YMMs initial complaint response, they thought YMM should 
pay Mr W £400 to adequately recognise the impact Mr W had experienced.
Mr W accepted this recommendation. But YMM didnt. YMM accepted they had made errors 
during the claim process, and how they communicated with Mr W. But they noted that Mr W 
had initially requested £200 compensation when he referred his complaint to us. So, they 
thought the £400 recommended by our investigator was excessive and wanted this to be 
reconsidered. As YMM didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
From the evidence and information available to me, I think its clear YMM have accepted 
there were errors in the way they handled Mr Ws claim, and the way they communicated 
with him. I note they stated this explicitly in their response to our investigators 
recommendation, alongside their decision to offer Mr W £100 compensation on the basis 
they wouldve offered this had they opened a new complaint as they felt they shouldve in 
October 2022. As YMM have accepted theyve made errors here, I dont intend to discuss 
the merits of Mr Ws complaint in any significant detail as I dont think this is in dispute. 
Instead, the main focus of my decision will centre around what does remain in dispute, which 
is what YMM should do to reasonably put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what YMM should do to put things right, any award or direction I make 
is intended to place Mr W back in the position he shouldve been in, had YMM acted fairly in 
the first instance.
In this situation, I cant see that Mr W made YMM aware of his disability until September 
2022. So, I think the way YMM acted up until this point was fair, as I dont think they couldve 
been aware of Mr Ws need for reasonable adjustments in the way they communicated with 
him.
But when Mr W did make them aware of his inability to wet sign documents, I do think YMM 
couldve done more to explore Mr Ws disability, to see whether they could find a reasonable 
adjustment that allowed them to continue with the service he asked them to provide. But I 
dont think they did so here, instead automatically defaulting to ending the agreement with 
him. While I do recognise they did this at no cost to Mr W, and I recognise they did so in an 
attempt to act fairly, I do think they shouldve done more to explore alternative ways to assist 
him first. So, I do think Mr W should be compensated for this.
And when YMM chose to end the agreement, I wouldve expected them to make this 
reasonably clear to Mr W. And crucially, I would expect all communication after this to cease. 
But this didnt happen here.
From the evidence available to me, I cant see YMMs complaint response ending the 
agreement to Mr W was definitely sent to him, as it was processed manually after being 
processed through their internal system. And at the same time, YMM have already accepted 
there was a system issue that resulted in Mr Ws claim being reopened and further request 
for a signature to be provided being sent to Mr W.
So, as there was already an accepted system issue here, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume, on the balance of probability, that the system issue most likely extended to the 
sending of the response to Mr W. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume that Mr W 
didnt receive this response explaining the agreement had been ended, which follows the 
testimony hes provided.
So, this means that for a period of around four months, Mr W was left in a situation where he 
was receiving repeated requests for a signature in a format that hed already explained he 
was unable to provide because of his disabilities. And this resulted in Mr W needing to 
contact YMM on several occasions to explain this, which Ive no doubt wouldve been 
significantly upsetting and inconvenient. So again, I think this should be compensated for.
Our investigator recommended YMM pay Mr W £400 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. And I think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line 
with our services approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been paid. I think it takes into consideration YMMs repeated mistake sending him requests to provide a 
signature in a format hed already explained he couldnt do because of his disability. And, 
that YMM failed to explore alternative options that may have allowed them to continue to 
assist Mr W through reasonable adjustments. I think it also takes into consideration that Mr 
W most likely didnt receive YMMs complaint response, and the fact YMM had other 
opportunities to send this to Mr W by email when it became reasonably clear he hadnt seen 
sight of this but failed to do so. So, this is a payment I am directing YMM to make.
I appreciate YMM may not feel this award is fair. And I want to reassure YMM I have 
considered the point theyve raised regarding Mr Ws initial request for £200, and why they 
think its unreasonable to direct an award for more than this amount.
But crucially, YMM were aware of Mr Ws £200 request when they chose to make an offer of 
£100 before our investigator investigated the complaint. Had YMM felt this request was a fair 
one, they couldve put this to Mr W. But they didnt. And crucially, what a customer expects 
from a complaint can differ from what a fair level of compensation should be.
In this situation, I think its clear Mr Ws disabilities and vulnerabilities meant this situation 
had an added emotional impact that needs to be considered. And when it is, I think an 
increased offer of compensation is fair, and in line with our services approach to situations 
such as this. So, YMMs comments havent impacted the decision Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Your Money Management 
Ltd trading as Your Money Claim and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr W £400 to recognise the distress and inconvenience hes been caused by the 
level of service provided to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman