DRN-3169530
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as J has complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to Covid-19.
Mr S, a director of J, has brought the complaint on Js behalf through a representative. For 
ease, Ill refer to all submissions as being from J. 
What happened
J held a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19. It said customers on its premises had been coughing. 
HDI said the policy didnt cover Js claim. Whilst the policy provided an extension of cover for 
notifiable human disease, this applied only if the disease occurred at the premises and there 
was a closure by a public authority as a result of that occurrence at the Premises. In Js case 
symptoms alone were not sufficient for the policy to respond and a public authority had not 
closed the premises. HDI also said that there was no link between the Governments 
nationwide restrictions and an occurrence (if any) at the premises.  
HDI also said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) test case did not impact the 
outcome of the claim under Js policy wording. 
Unhappy with HDIs response, J brought its claim to our service. J said its business had 
been closed by a notifiable disease and following the successful FCA test case the claim 
should be paid. 
Our investigator looked into Js complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
J had shown it was most likely that there was a case of Covid-19 at its business premises.
J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. J said that on 17 March 2020 its 
staff had raised concerns that two customers at the same table had been coughing loudly. 
Due to the open plan layout J took the decision that evening to close. This was before the 
Government required all non-essential businesses to close on 23 March 2020. In response 
to our investigators request for any evidence to show Covid-19, J sent the local Councils 
surveillance report showing cases in the area in March 2020.
J also referred to a landmark Australian test case involving HDI, which it said supported its 
case. J had also received a list of insurance policies capable of responding to the Covid-19 
pandemic, which included HDI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Js business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Js claim.
The relevant part of the extension within Js policy covers loss resulting from business 
interruption or interference as a consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent public authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Js claim, the 
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
I appreciate that Js director Mr S is aware of customers who were coughing at the premises 
on 17 March 2020, causing him to take the decision to close. However, I havent seen 
anything except Mr Ss testimony to support this. And in this particular case, that isnt 
enough for me to find that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Js premises. The 
Councils surveillance report showing Covid-19 cases in the local area does not demonstrate 
that there was most likely Covid-19 at Js premises, as required for a successful claim under 
the policy. 
I understand that Js business closed before the Government lockdown and was required to 
stay closed to prevent the spread of Covid-19, but Im afraid that isnt covered by this 
extension as I dont think J has shown there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at its 
premises. As such, it is not necessary for me to go on to decide whether a public authority 
closed the premises or to consider any link between the Governments national lockdown 
and any report of Covid-19 at Js premises. 
J has referred to a landmark test case  the New South Wales Court of Appeals decision in 
HDI Global Speciality SE v Wonkana No. 3 Pty Ltd [2020] NSWCA 296. This is an Australian case but, in any event, it doesnt make any difference to Js claim because J hasnt shown 
there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at the premises.
J refers to HDI being included in the FCAs list of policies capable of responding to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. But this does not mean that Js claim will be successful. J would still 
have to show an occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises. 
Im not persuaded that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at Js premises, so I think that 
HDI was correct to conclude that the outcome of its claim wasnt affected by the FCA test 
case. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome J was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require HDI to pay Js claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman