DRN-3710123
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to protect him 
from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the 
money once hed reported the scam.
What happened
Mr H was a victim of an investment scam. A friend recommended an investment company Ill 
refer to as C. The friend showed him Cs website and explained he would first need to 
purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the 
cryptocurrency onto his online wallet. Mr H was told the funds would show on the account he 
held with C and it would be very profitable. 
Between 17 January 2022 and 4 February 2022, Mr H made eighteen payments using his 
Halifax Visa debit card. The payments, which totalled £31,045, were to a cryptocurrency 
exchange company who Ill refer to as B. After making several payments to B, Mr H was 
able to withdraw a small sum of money from the account, but when he wanted to withdraw 
more, he was told hed need to pay 28% of his balance. At this point he realised hed been 
the victim of a scam.
Mr H contacted Halifax to ask it to refund the money hed lost, but it said it couldnt raise a 
request under Visas chargeback scheme because the cryptocurrency exchange had 
correctly provided the service it was supposed to provide. It also said that as the payments 
were made via debit card, they wouldnt be covered under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) code. 
Halifax also said Mr H had made payments of both larger and similar amounts the previous 
year, so the disputed payments werent unusual. And they had left the account with a 
healthy balance each time, so the payments werent flagged for further checks.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so, with the help of a representative, he complained to Halifax 
asking it to refund the payments. The representative said the payments were out of 
character and Halifax should have intervened.
Halifax explained it was difficult to evidence why a refund would be due under Visas 
chargeback scheme and as the money from Mr Hs account was paid to the exchange 
company and not the scammers account, the chargeback would be against the exchange 
company. And as the exchange company had carried out the service theyve been instructed 
to provide, it would be unable to ask them for a refund. It also said it didnt think the 
payments were unusual.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so, with the help of his representative, he complained to this 
service. The representative argued the transactions were out of character and Halifax should 
have intervened to prevent the fraud. He argued that cryptocurrency scams have been 
prevalent since 2018 and Halifax would have been aware of how this type of scam operated 
and how common it was. He said the fact Mr H was sending money to a cryptocurrency 
exchange company should have raised concerns and the fact B was very popular with 
scammers means Halifax should have identified the transactions as high risk. 
The representative said that on 17 January 2022, Mr H had sent a payment which was larger 
than normal to a new payee which was also a very high-risk cryptocurrency exchange. Mr H 
had no history of sending large payments and had not previously sent money to a 
cryptocurrency exchange. The following day, he sent a large sum of money over multiple 
transactions, again, without any intervention from Halifax. 
The representative argued that if Halifax had intervened with thorough questioning around 
the purpose of the payments and provided information about the risk of scams, the fraud 
would have been prevented. He explained Mr H had little to no knowledge of cryptocurrency 
or cryptocurrency wallets and simply followed instructions given to him.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She agreed the activity on Mr 
Hs account on 18 January was unusual and ought to have triggered an intervention from 
Halifax. But she didnt think this wouldve made a difference to his decision to go ahead with 
the payments because the investment opportunity had been recommended by a close family 
friend who seemed to be making a good profit. 
Our investigator explained that on 18 January 2022, there wasnt enough evidence to say C 
was a scam as there were no regulatory warnings with either the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) or negative 
comments or reviews online. So, all Halifax couldve done would be to provide information 
about cryptocurrency scams and the relevant regulations needed to offer investment 
services to UK customers. She noted Mr H understood his friend was receiving returns and 
that he had started to receive return too, so she didnt think a warning would have 
outweighed the confidence this had given him.
Mr Hs representative has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and 
disputes our investigators suggestion that Halifax couldnt have done anything apart from 
provide information. Hes argued that thorough questioning would have uncovered the 
involvement of an unregulated third-party, the fact returns were presented in a portal and 
that Mr H had been told the more he invested, the higher the return. This information would 
have alerted Halifax to the fact this was probably a scam.
He believes Halifax would have told Mr H about the types of scams they see and warned 
him about the fact cryptocurrency investment scams often involve people being directed by a 
third party to invest via a cryptocurrency wallet. 
The representative also pointed out Mr H only received £100 in returns and that this wouldnt 
have affected his decision to go ahead with the payments and that Halifax would have 
known that small early returns are common in this type of scam. The representative has also 
clarified that the family friend was the husband of a someone who lives down the street. The 
person wasnt a sophisticated investor who had only received fake returns, which, Halifax 
would have explained, wasnt a reliable source. 
Finally, the representative argued that even if Mr H had chosen to go ahead with the 
payments, Halifax should have refused to remove the block.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr H has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why.
CRM Code
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr H says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax said the CRM code didnt apply in this case 
and because the disputed payments were paid to an account in Mr Hs own name, Im 
satisfied thats fair.
Im also satisfied Mr H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr H didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to recover Mr Hs payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Halifax) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr H).
Mr Hs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers to C. Its only possible to process a chargeback claim against the merchant that 
received the disputed payments. Its most likely that B would have been able to evidence it 
had done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Hs payments, it converted 
and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, any chargeback 
was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Halifaxs decision not to raise a chargeback 
request against the cryptocurrency exchange company was fair.
PreventionIve also thought about whether Halifax could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Halifax had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr H when he 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Halifax to intervene with a view to protecting Mr H from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Halifaxs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr H 
normally ran his account and I agree that they were.
On 17 January 2022 Mr H paid £3,000 to B and while I accept this is a lot of money, its not 
so large that it should have triggered Halifaxs fraud systems. This is because its not 
unusual for people to make the odd larger payment, even if this isnt something they do 
regularly.
However, on 18 January 2022, Mr H made two payments to B for £2,500, followed by a 
further four payments of £2,445 each. These multiple payments totalled £14,780 and Im 
satisfied that this, as a total daily spend, was unusual for Mr Hs normal spending habits and 
should have triggered Halifaxs fraud systems.
If Halifax had contacted Mr H on 18 January 2022, it should reasonably have asked several 
probing questions concerning the purpose of the payments and the circumstances of the 
investment. Mr Hs representative has correctly pointed out that from 2018 onwards, we 
would expect banks to know there were several scams involving cryptocurrency and the 
common traits of such scams. Consequently, I would expect Halifax to have questioned Mr 
H about why he was investing in cryptocurrency, what hed been told about possible returns 
on the investment, whether he was being assisted by a broker, who the broker worked for, 
whether the company was regulated in the UK and anything else he knew about how the 
investment actually worked. It should also have asked some questions around Mr Hs 
investment experience.
Im satisfied that if Mr H had been asked these questions, hed have answered truthfully 
because theres no evidence of him having misled the bank before or that he was told to do 
so by the scammers. And, consequently, Im satisfied that Halifax would likely have gathered 
enough information to suggest the investment could be a scam.
If this was the case, I would expect Halifax to have advised Mr H the investment could be a 
scam and the reasons why it had reached that conclusion. I would then expect it to advise 
Mr H to check the FCA register and to consider whether the returns hed been promised 
were realistic.
Our investigator said that, even if Halifax had intervened, she doesnt think it would have 
made any difference to Mr Hs decision to proceed with the payments because he knew 
someone who had used C and this had given him confidence that the company was 
genuine. The friend was positive about the returns hed made, and the endorsement led Mr 
H to look into C himself. She also noted he said he felt confident because he was able to 
deposit, and then withdraw funds back into the account he held with B.
Mr Hs representative has also downplayed the relationship Mr H had with the friend and 
said he believes the friend had also received fake returns.
Based on the available evidence, I accept Mr H used C as it was recommended by someone 
he knew, and, regardless of the closeness of the relationship, he trusted the company was genuine based on the fact someone he knew had invested with them and was making some 
money. I accept those returns are unquantified and that they were likely fake returns, but I 
am satisfied this legitimised C in Mr Hs eyes. Similarly, the fact that Mr H had made some 
withdrawals by 18 January 2022 would have instilled yet more confidence in the fact the 
investment was genuine, albeit the returns were small.
The main crux of this complaint is whether Halifax could reasonably have said anything to Mr 
H to change his mind about going ahead with the payments. I think at that point, Halifax 
could have told Mr H that B was a company about which Action Fraud had concerns and that 
the investment shared some common traits with other cryptocurrency scams. But this was a 
sophisticated scam which had all the hallmarks of a genuine investment, and I dont think 
this information alone would have outweighed the confidence Mr H had that the investment 
was genuine.
Halifax could have told Mr H to do some more research, but there were no warnings about C 
on either the FCA or the IOSCO websites and at the time. And I havent seen any evidence 
of negative information about C online. C wasnt regulated by the FCA and this is sometimes 
be an indication of a scam, but even if Mr H had seen C wasnt regulated, because there 
were no other obvious warnings this was a scam and they werent based in the UK, I dont 
think there was anything Mr H could have done to confirm this was a scam. Consequently, 
while I accept Halifax failed to intervene on 18 January 2022, I dont think its failure to do so 
represented a missed opportunity to prevent Mr Hs loss.
Mr Hs representative has argued that, even if Mr H had gone ahead with the payments, 
Halifax ought to have refused to make the payment. But I disagree. While there were signs 
to indicate this was a scam, I dont think it was possible to say for certain, so I wouldnt 
expect Halifax to have refused to make the payments. B was a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange company that many people used for genuine investments, so the involvement of B 
alone would not be confirm this was a scam.
Overall, while I think Halifax should have done more when Mr H tried to make the payments 
on 18 January 2022, I dont think it would have prevented Mr Hs loss. Im sorry to hear hes 
lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Halifax is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman