DRN-4202984
The complaint
Ms J complains about Evolution Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her home 
emergency insurance claim.
Evolution is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Evolution has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Evolution includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In September 2022, Ms J took out a home emergency policy with Evolution. The policy 
included cover for the breakdown of her boiler and central heating system.
In December 2022, Ms J made a claim under the policy after her boiler stopped working. 
She paid the policys £95 excess fee and an engineer from Evolution visited her property a 
few days later. Ms J says the engineer carried out some repairs to burst pipes, but 
plasterboard needed to come off before part of the pipework could be repaired. She says 
she was told to wait for a thaw to take place so he would know for sure what the boiler 
problem was.
Ms J contacted Evolution again a few days later, after the frost was gone, but further repairs 
werent carried out. After further contact from Ms J, Evolution told her that the pipes behind 
the wall werent covered under the policys terms and conditions because the fault wasnt 
accessible. Ms J disputed this and raised a complaint.
Evolution agreed to send out another engineer and Ms J arranged for plasterboard to be 
taken down prior to his visit to ensure the work could be done. 
The engineer fixed the burst pipes and made a temporary repair to the boiler. The next day, 
Ms J contacted Evolution because the boiler wasnt working again. An engineer visited five 
days later and told Ms J the boiler needed a new part. Ms J says she was told a new part 
was being ordered. However, she was later told that her boiler was deemed beyond 
economical repair. 
Evolutions approved installers gave Ms J a quote for a new boiler. Ms J asked if shed 
receive a £250 contribution towards this and return of the £95 excess shed paid. But she 
was told she wasnt entitled to this as shed had the policy for less than 12 months.
Ms J raised another complaint with Evolution. She said shed been without heating for over 
six weeks, despite her mentioning that an elderly person with dementia was living with her 
over the holiday period. She also raised several concerns about Evolution not acting in line 
with the policys terms and conditions.
Evolution said it had acted in line with the policys terms and conditions. It said it had 
updated these in November 2022 and could evidence it had sent these to Ms J. It apologised 
for a delay in sending engineers to Ms Js policy and offered her a total of £77.50 in 
compensation. 
Ms J remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. Our investigator 
looked into Ms Js concerns and recommended Evolution pay her an additional £150. She 
was satisfied that Evolution had acted in line with the policys terms and conditions, but she 
thought it should increase its offer of compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Evolution agreed with our investigators outcome and agreed to pay Ms J a total of £227.50 
in compensation. However, Ms J didnt think this was enough to put things right. She didnt 
think it was fair for Evolution to rely on the revised terms and conditions of the policy. She 
said Evolution had made changes to the policy which had impacted her negatively, so she 
should have been given 28 days notice of these. She also disputed receiving the email 
notification of the changes Evolution said it had sent her in November 2022. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 June 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Ms Js complaint in part. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Ms Js complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Change in terms and conditions
Evolution says it notified Ms J of its revised terms and conditions (which took effect in 
October 2022) on 19 November 2022. Ms J says she didnt receive Evolutions email. But 
Evolution has sent us a screenshot to show that an update email was sent to her. So, on 
balance, I think Evolution is likely to have informed Ms J of the changes to its terms and 
conditions when it said it did.
Ms J says she believes her claim should have been considered in line with the previous 
terms and conditions because she wasnt notified of changes 28 days prior to them taking 
effect.
The terms and conditions Ms J received when she took out the policy in September 2022 
say:
Changes to your terms & conditions
We may amend these terms and conditions for legal or regulatory reasons. Where this 
change benefits you, well make the change immediately and notify you within 28 days. In all 
other cases well write to advise you of the change at least 28 days prior to any change 
taking effect. If the changes do not benefit you and you wish to cancel your agreement you 
may do so.
Evolution says it didnt need to send Ms J the revised terms earlier because the changes 
were to her benefit. However, Ms J says she was negatively impacted by changes to the 
policy wording, which werent listed in the summary of important information document 
Evolution says was sent to her.
Ms J says two heaters should have automatically been sent to her. The new terms and 
condition stated they would only be sent if requested.The document Ms J received when she took out the policy says: If were not able to restore 
your central heating we will provide two portable heaters which you will not have to return to 
us. 
The October 2022 policy document says: If were not able to restore your heating following 
a boiler emergency or breakdown from October to March and you have no other source of 
heating you may request two portable heaters from us which you will not have to return to 
us.
Evolution offered Ms J £30 compensation for not supplying heaters. I appreciate Ms J 
doesnt think this is enough. However, Ive considered this as part of the overall 
compensation I think Evolution should pay.
Ms J is also unhappy that she wasnt offered a £250 discount on a new boiler and a return of 
her £95 excess.
The terms Ms J received when she took out her policy say:
If weve assessed that your boiler is beyond economic repair we will provide you with a 
£250 contribution to a new boiler from (Evolutions approved installers), either through a 
discount or cashback We will refund your excess in the event of a boiler replacement.
The October 2022 terms say:
If weve assessed that your boiler is beyond economic repair and you have been 
continuously covered by us for at least 12 months we will Provide a £250 contribution, less 
your policy excess, to a new boiler from our approved installers if your boiler is at least 7 
years old.
The summary of important information document Evolution says it sent to Ms J when it 
advised her of the change in terms and conditions says: 
Boiler replacement terms, if your boiler is beyond economic repair, have been amended.
However, I think Evolution should have done more to make Ms J aware of the change 
because it does seem to have negatively impacted her. And I can understand why shes 
unhappy about this.
Its difficult to tell what would have happened if Evolution had highlighted this change and 
had notified Ms J of it in advance. So, Ive thought about whether or not Ms J has lost out 
financially as a result of Evolution following the revised terms, rather than acting in line with 
those Ms J originally received.
According to the original terms, Ms J would only have been entitled to the £250 discount and 
return of her excess if her boiler was replaced by Evolutions approved installers. 
Ms J says she decided not to have her boiler replaced by Evolutions approved installers 
because it was more expensive without the discount and because of the poor customer 
service shed received from it.
Weve asked Ms J to provide quotes from both installers. However, Ms J has only provided 
the quote from Evolutions approved installers. She said the quote they provided was for a 
combi boiler, when she required a system boiler. She said the installer she used quoted for a 
system boiler, plus taking away and re-lagging pipework, so it wasnt a like for like quote. She also commented that her new boiler came with a 12 year warranty, unlike Evolutions 
which had a 10 year warranty. 
I havent seen evidence to show me that Ms J lost out financially because she wasnt given 
the opportunity to have her boiler replaced by Evolutions approved installers (with the 
discount and return of her excess). So, Im unable to consider financial loss here.
Customer service and delay
Ms Js initial claim related to a burst pipe in the property. Evolution says its engineer wasnt 
able to repair the pipes until Ms J had created access in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of her policy
Both sets of terms and condition say:
Reasonable Access
You must give reasonable access to enable appropriate work to be carried out including 
following any advice from the engineer and/or customer helpline in removing furniture if this 
is deemed necessary.
So, I think it was fair for Evolution to tell Ms J that it wasnt able to repair the pipes until she 
arranged for them to be accessible. However, it doesnt look like Evolution explained this to 
Ms J until a couple of weeks after the engineers visit. So, I dont think it communicated with 
her as clearly as it should have done, and this resulted in a delay in progressing her claim.
Ms J was without heating for around five weeks from when she made her claim until she was 
told her boiler was beyond economical repair. This was particularly inconvenient and 
distressing for Ms J given that it was winter. Ms J says she had an elderly, vulnerable person 
staying with her over the festive period, which would have added to her worry. However, I 
think some of this was beyond Evolutions control. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell 
Evolution to compensate Ms J for this whole timeframe.
Evolution has acknowledged shortcomings in relation to the delays in sending engineers to 
her property and not offering Ms J heaters. Its also accepted our investigators 
recommendation to increase its offer of compensation to a total of £227.50. Ive thought 
about the impact of Evolutions poor customer service and delays. And I think this amount 
fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience Ms J experienced as a result of the poor 
service she received from Evolution. So, I dont intend to award compensation above the 
amount our investigator recommended.
I set out what I intended to direct Evolution to do to put things right. And I gave both parties 
the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Evolution acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and said it had no further 
comments to make.
Ms J made some comments about the service shed received from Evolution, including its 
communication with her. 
She said she wasnt told the problem was access to pipes behind the wall. She was told the 
fault couldnt be identified. She was told this wasnt covered and wasnt advised that if she took the plasterboard down, then the engineer could repair the problem. She said when the 
engineer came around after the plasterboard was taken down, he found there were several 
leaks and there was only an access problem with one. 
Ms J said Evolution spoke to her rudely over the phone and nobody suggested she was 
looking at the wrong terms and conditions. She also commented that she never received the 
terms and conditions and she felt Evolution should have asked for confirmation of receipt. 
She said Evolution refused to give her a copy of the original email with the terms and 
conditions when she asked for it.
Ms J said Evolution told her she was wrong when she questioned the engineers reports. 
One engineer said hed fixed the problem but there were several bursts so this would have 
been impossible. 
She said shed asked Evolution if anything could be done to help her when she had an older 
family member staying and no heating but was still not offered any heaters.
Ms J said the problem was much deeper than just not receiving terms and conditions and 
not hearing back for a few weeks after being told she was not covered. She said no one got 
back to her at all until she placed an official complaint. She said she hoped I could see why 
shed asked for more as compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms J doesnt feel that the compensation I said I intended to award is sufficient to 
put things right. However, most of what shes commented on has previously been raised by 
her in correspondence with us or Evolution.
In my provisional decision I said Id thought about whether or not Ms J had lost out financially 
as a result of Evolution following the revised terms, rather than acting in line with those Ms J 
originally received. So, whether or not Ms J received Evolutions email advising her of the 
change in terms, doesnt make a difference to my conclusions.
Id also considered the impact of the poor customer service and delays on Ms J in 
determining a fair award for compensation. This included the impact of Evolution not offering 
her heaters.
I appreciate this may be disappointing for Ms J, but I havent found reason to increase the 
compensation Im awarding her.
Putting things right
Evolution should pay Ms J £227.50 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Js complaint and direct Evolution Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman