DRN-2221823
The complaint
Mrs B complains NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) lent to her irresponsibly. Shes unhappy
about the level of interest shes been charged and that she wasnt issued a new card when
her old one expired. Shes also unhappy with the way NewDay responded when she said
she was in financial hardship.
What happened
Mrs B took out a credit card with NewDay in September 2014 with a credit limit of £250. The
account statements show in February 2015 this was increased to £1,050, in July 2015 it was
increased to £1,300 and in February 2016 it was increased to £2,050.
Mrs B says she shouldnt have been lent to  she says couldnt afford this and had multiple
defaults and payday loans at the time. She complained that the interest rate was too high
and it was then increased, which has left her further in debt. She was unhappy NewDays
collection team couldnt communicate by email and she felt the income and expenditure form
shed been sent to complete was too invasive.
NewDay didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. They said they took her income and did a credit
check prior to the account opening and before each further increase they carried out a
further credit check and looked at her account activity. They said the terms of the account
allowed them to increase the interest rate and allowed them to withdraw the facility. They
explained theyd issued an income and expenditure form when Mrs B contacted them for
assistance and they could only communicate with Mrs B by phone or post, not email as she
had requested.
Our investigator requested Mrs Bs credit file, but this wasnt initially provided. Based on the
information he had, he didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
He said given the initial credit limit and subsequent increases were relatively small, NewDay
had carried out proportionate checks. He explained prior to the account opening NewDay
took Mrs Bs income and her credit file information showed she had two payday loans in
arrears within the previous six months but no other active loans or cards. So he didnt think
NewDay had done anything wrong in lending to her.
He said the terms allow NewDay to change the interest rate and seeing as theyd given her
two months notice, this was reasonable. He thought NewDay had assisted Mrs B by
advising her to increase her payment in order to reduce the amount of interest she was
paying.
He said the terms also allow NewDay to withdraw the card facility, but her account was
being maintained as it had been previously, so he thought withdrawing the facility was
unreasonable. However, he noted the facility was withdrawn in September 2017 and Mrs B
contacted NewDay in March 2018 about her financial difficulties. He felt had NewDay
continued to allow Mrs B to use her card during this time, it couldve made her financial
situation worse. For this reason, he didnt think NewDay needed to do anything to put it right.
Our investigator didnt think NewDay were wrong in asking Mrs B to communicate by phone
or post, as their collections team dont have access to emails. He also said theres nothing to
suggest Mrs B cant use phone or post. He looked at the income and expenditure form and
didnt think NewDay had asked for anything that wasnt relevant, so he didnt agree with Mrs
Bs comments that this form was too invasive.
Mrs B replied stating shed had multiple defaults in addition to payday loans and asked us to
look at her credit file. Upon reviewing Mrs Bs credit file, our investigator upheld the
complaint. He thought that the first limit increase and those that followed were not affordable.
He said Mrs Bs credit card balance continued to rise and Mrs B exceeded it on one
occasion. So he didnt think it was enough for NewDay to rely solely on her credit check and
account statements. He thought they shouldve asked about her expenditure and had they
done so, it wouldve come to light that she had two recent defaults, approximately six payday
loans in debt management plans as well as a recent loan of £4,000.
NewDay disagreed. They said they didnt use the same credit reference agency which Mrs B
had used to send her credit file to us. They said the agency they used didnt flag up these
issues and the regulations in force at the time of the increases didnt oblige them to carry out
checks with multiple agencies. They said Mrs B had maintained her payments and had
declared an income of £35,000 which would suggest the increases were not unsustainable.
They also noted Mrs B didnt contact them for assistance until two years after the last credit
limit increase. NewDay asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 August 2020, an extract of which Ive included below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same
conclusion to our investigator and my provisional decision sets out why.
Unaffordable lending
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This
includes the FCAs Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC).
Having done so, I consider that the increases in the credit limit were unaffordable for Mrs B.
The FCAs rules require NewDay to undertake a reasonable assessment of Mrs Bs
creditworthiness before significantly increasing the credit limit on her account. (CONC 5.2.A).
This includes an assessment of whether the increases were sustainable  in other words,
that Mrs B could repay the debt without undue difficulty.
Im satisfied that the increases in the credit limit were significant. The limit was initially £250
but Mrs Bs statements show in February 2015 this went up to £1,050, an increase of £800
in just five months. In July 2015 the limit increased to £1,300 and in February 2016 it
increased to £2,050, a jump of £750 in seven months. So, I consider that NewDay had an
obligation to check that the increases were affordable for Mrs B.
Affordability checks should be proportionate so a lender might not do the same level of
checks as it does at the opening of an account. But, typically, a lender will consider the
information, which it already has about the customer, including how theyve managed their
account and the customers ability to make repayments as they fall due. It may refresh
checks with the credit reference agencies.NewDay said when Mrs B opened her account it asked for her gross annual income which
she stated was £35,000. It said it carried out checks with a credit reference agency. In their
final response letter, they explained Mrs B had no arrears on any active accounts, no public
records and no defaults. Based on the screenshots theyve provided it looks like they were
aware of two payday loans that had been in arrears in the last six months and had defaulted
in the last 12 months. NewDay has said they are a second chance lender and allow for
negative information on a credit report. It said by having payday loans and other credit this
wouldnt be a sole reason to prohibit them from raising a credit limit on an account. Whilst I
accept this, NewDay still had an obligation to make sure the lending was affordable for
Mrs B.
Before increasing the credit limits, NewDay said it considered the information it already had
about Mrs B. It said Mrs B always made payments and she always brought her account back
under the limit, so it was satisfied with the way she was managing her account. NewDay also
carried out credit checks and these did not indicate any financial or affordability issues.
However, I think NewDay has been selective in the way it has interpreted Mrs Bs
management of the account. I think there are indications that Mrs B wasnt managing her
existing credit limit well, which calls into question NewDays decision to more than quadruple
her credit limit after just four months. For example, Mrs Bs statements show she took her
account up to the credit limit quickly.
Taken with what NewDay already knew about Mrs B from the checks it did when it opened
the account, I think these issues call into question NewDays decision to increase Mrs Bs
credit limit. Certainly, before doing so, I think NewDay should have looked more closely into
Mrs Bs circumstances and had they done so, they wouldve identified the credit limit
increases were unaffordable.
I also think they had reason to carry out additional checks because they were aware of two
payday loans that had been in arrears in the last six months and had defaulted in the last 12
months. Mrs Bs credit file shows these two accounts defaulted in January 2014 and July
2014.
Whilst this may not have prompted NewDay to carry out additional checks for the initial limit
of £250, I think they shouldve carried out these checks when this was increased by £800 to
£1,050 and as mentioned above this happened only five months after opening the account.
Mrs B provided her credit file which showed prior to the account opening and credit limit
increases there were a high level of payday loans. Mrs B was taking out payday loans
frequently. Six of these loans were in debt management plans prior to the opening of the
credit card with NewDay.
Our investigator also referred to a loan of £4,000, although it looks like this was taken in July
2016 which was after the last credit limit increase. Mrs Bs credit file does show a loan of
£5,090 was taken in August 2014 which was only a month before the card was opened.
However, I understand this may not have appeared on Mrs Bs credit file at this time.
NewDay explained it gave Mrs B the option to opt out of the increase if she felt it was
unmanageable in any way. But it was for NewDay to ensure the limit increases were
manageable in the first place and I dont think the option to opt out takes away from this
responsibility.
It said the information Mrs B provided didnt appear on the checks that it completed at the
time. It also said the rules didnt oblige them to use multiple credit reference agencies. It
explained it used a different credit reference agency to the one Mrs B had used. However,
for the reasons Ive outlined above I think the information NewDay had shouldve promptedthem to carry out additional checks prior to increasing her credit limit.
NewDay also said Mrs B didnt contact them for assistance until two years after the last
increase. Whilst this may be the case, this doesnt mean the limits were affordable to her.
And in any event, between April 2014 and November 2018, CONC 6.7.2R required NewDay
to monitor [Mrs Bs] repayment record and take appropriate action where there are signs of
actual or possible repayment difficulties. Such signs here may include exceeding the credit
limit, late payments, missed payments, or frequently making minimum repayments (such that
it calls into question the borrowers ability to repay the debt within a reasonable period of
time). As such, even where Mrs B hadnt sought help, it seems to me that NewDay itself was
required to be on the lookout for repayment difficulties and to step in where they might
possibly exist.
In these circumstances, I consider that the increases in Mrs Bs credit limit were
unaffordable. I think its fair and reasonable for NewDay to restore her account to the
position it was in before the increase in January 2015.
interest rate
Mrs B has complained that the interest she was charged was too high and that it was then
increased, which has left her further in debt.
The key question is whether, in light of the interest rate, Mrs B was able to repay this debt in
a sustainable manner. I dont think the interest rate itself gives grounds to uphold the
complaint in this case.
Our investigator said the terms of the account allow NewDay to increase the interest rate. He
explained these terms didnt specify how much notice NewDay had to give but he felt they
gave her sufficient notice as they wrote to her on 7 April 2017 and didnt increase the rate
until June 2017.
Having looked at the terms, these state NewDay will give at least 60 days notice before
making such a change. I can see NewDay wrote to Mrs B on 7 April 2017 explaining theyd
be increasing the interest rate from 13 June 2017, so I think they gave her the correct notice
this would happen.
The letter also gave Mrs B the option to opt out meaning she could repay her outstanding
balance at the current rate and the account would be closed. However, it seems Mrs B did
not contact NewDay to take this option. So I dont think NewDay have done anything wrong
in increasing her interest rate.
persistent debt communications
Our investigator explained the Financial Conduct Authority brought out new guidance around
persistent debt which came into force from March 2018. These rules explain businesses
should warn their customers they can save money by increasing their payments if theyve
been paying more in interest and charges than off the balance for over 18 months.
NewDay sent a letter to Mrs B in September 2018 and June 2019 explaining she fell into this
category and although she was in a repayment plan, they advised her to increase her
repayments if she was able to do so. The letter in June 2019 explained if her account was
still in persistent debt by March 2020 they may take further action to ensure the balance is
repaid in a reasonable period which may include freezing her card. So I think NewDay has
followed the guidance and informed Mrs B of what might happen with her account.I dont intend to make findings as to whether NewDay fulfilled its obligations (which pre-date
the FCAs persistent debt rules) to monitor Mrs Bs repayment of the account and step in if
necessary because I already intend to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about the credit limit
increases granted after the initial amount was approved.
refusal to provide new card
The terms of the account allow NewDay to withdraw the card at any time and theyve said
they did this because they werent happy with the account activity. I can see NewDay wrote
to Mrs B on 8 August 2017 to say it wouldnt be reissuing her with a new card due to the
status of the account.
Our investigator concluded NewDay didnt act reasonably as the account activity hadnt
changed. However, he didnt think they needed to do anything to put this right because Mrs
B had contacted NewDay about six months later requesting financial assistance. He thought
that Mrs Bs finances may have got worse had they continued to allow her to use the
account.
I do agree that had Mrs B continued to use the account during this six-month period, she
may have continued to spend. So by refusing to provide a new card this helped to prevent
her balance increasing.
Although I understand why Mrs B may have been disappointed, I have provisionally
concluded that the credit limit granted to her by this time was unaffordable and so I intend to
say that it was appropriate for NewDay to have acted in a way that began to wind back her
exposure to unsustainable debt.
financial difficulties
Mrs B seems to have contacted NewDay about her financial difficulties in April 2018. Shes
complained that NewDays collection team couldnt communicate by email and she felt the
income and expenditure form shed been sent to complete was too invasive.
NewDay have explained their collections team cant communicate by secure email which is
why they wanted to speak to Mrs B over the phone or via post. Like the investigator, I dont
think this was unreasonable and there doesnt seem to be a reason why Mrs B couldnt
communicate by phone or post, although I do appreciate email was her preferred option.
Mrs B said the income and expenditure was too invasive. I have looked at the form that was
sent to Mrs B. Although this asked for personal information, I dont think it asked for anything
it didnt need. And whilst I understand why Mrs B felt this was invasive, I dont think NewDay
were wrong to ask for the information it did.
During the course of our investigation NewDay informed us that a repayment plan had been
in place with interest and charges frozen and that Mrs B has been making reduced payment
since September 2019. This is the type of assistance I would expect NewDay to provide so I
dont think its done anything wrong here.
Having looked at everything provided by both sides I dont think NewDay has done anything
wrong in terms of increasing the interest rate and declining to provide Mrs B with a new card.
And I think NewDay have tried to help Mrs B with her financial difficulties.
However, for the reasons Ive explained above I think NewDay ought to have looked more
closely at Mrs Bs circumstances before increasing her credit limit and had they done so,
they wouldve realised this was not affordable. I therefore think NewDay needs to put this
right.My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given, my provisional decision is to ask NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to:
Refund any interest and charges added to the account on any balance over the initial
credit limit of £250. Any such refund should be applied to reduce Mrs Bs credit card
balance.
NewDay should check for any periods where Mrs Bs payments wouldve been
enough to clear her balance and, if this is the case, it should pay 8% annual simple
interest on any periods she wouldve been in credit up until the date she wouldve 
owed money on her account again.
Mrs B accepted my provisional decision and NewDay replied to say they had nothing further 
to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same overall conclusions as set out in my provisional 
decision and I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
NewDay need to provide the refund as outlined in my provisional decision, which Ive also 
set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should:
Refund any interest and charges added to the account on any balance over the initial
credit limit of £250. Any such refund should be applied to reduce Mrs Bs credit card
balance.
NewDay should check for any periods where Mrs Bs payments wouldve been
enough to clear her balance and, if this is the case, it should pay 8% annual simple
interest on any periods she wouldve been in credit up until the date she wouldve 
owed money on her account again.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman