DRN-2944527
The complaint
The executor of Mr Ps estate has complained about a lifetime mortgage he held with Aviva 
Equity Release UK Limited. She is concerned that the property valuation completed at the 
time was too high and so too much money was released to Mr P. She is unhappy that Aviva 
wont provide her with details of the comparators used when the property was valued.
What happened
In 2017 Mr P released £127,395 from his property via a lifetime mortgage with Aviva. The 
mortgage was recommended by an independent mortgage broker. Before Mr Ps application 
was submitted, the broker arranged for the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) 
registered surveyors Aviva used for its valuations to value the property. The property was 
valued at £260,000.  A copy of the valuation was produced for Aviva and a second copy for 
Mr P, which the broker would have given him. The comparators used were detailed  two of 
which were on the same road as Mr Ps home, had sold less than six months earlier and 
both sold for more than the value attributed to Mr Ps home.
Following Mr Ps death, the executor of the estate complained to Aviva about the sale of the 
mortgage and the valuation of the property, as she thought it had been too high.
Aviva responded to the complaint. It explained that in order for a value of a property to be 
considered an appropriate comparator, the value would need to have been produced by a 
surveyor, rather than the likes of an estate agent. It said that if the executor could provide 
such evidence from the time of the mortgage advance, it would pass it to its valuers for 
consideration. That said, Aviva said it had spoken to its valuers and it was satisfied the 
valuation was correct and based on sound comparable evidence. Aviva said it would be 
providing the executor with a copy of the valuation. In addition, Aviva confirmed the advice to 
arrange the mortgage had been given by an independent mortgage broker, so any concerns 
about the suitability of the advice, or being misled about how the mortgage worked, would 
have to be referred to that broker. 
The executor wasnt happy with the response she received from Aviva. It explained that it 
wasnt able to provide details of the comparators the surveyors had used when valuing 
Mr Ps home as that information was personal to the owners of those homes. It explained 
that its process for disputing a valuation involved the party disputing the value to provide 
evidence to support their position. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint.
The executor remained unhappy with Avivas response and referred the complaint to this 
service. When we notified Aviva of the complaint, it provided its file. When doing so it said its 
explanation of why it couldnt provide the comparables from the time of the valuation had 
been wrong. It was explained that the mortgage had been what it called a package case, 
whereby the broker arranged the valuation with the surveyors Aviva used before the 
application was made. The valuation would have been sent to the broker and it then 
provided Aviva with a copy alongside the application. As such, Mr P and the executor would 
have been aware of the valuation before the application was made and could have 
questioned the comparables at that time if they had concerns.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He confirmed that the broker was responsible for most of the concerns the executor 
had about the advice to take the mortgage. In relation to the matter of the valuation, he 
explained that this was produced for Avivas purposes. Also, as it was carried out by a 
suitably qualified surveyor, Aviva was entitled to rely on it. In addition, Aviva wasnt obliged 
to release a copy of the valuation to the consumer, although it now had. 
The executor didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said that she hadnt received 
a copy of the valuation. She said that whether the valuation was done by an appropriately 
qualified expert or not, it was still in her opinion incorrect and not supported by evidence 
obtained on properties similar to Mr Ps home. She said that the attached property, identical 
to Mr Ps home, was sold within two months of the Aviva valuation and it was marketed at 
£230,000. She reiterated some of her earlier comments about what she and Mr P had been 
told by the independent broker. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be passed to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
As our investigator explained to the executor, I am only able to consider a complaint about a 
financial business if it is responsible for the matter complained about. I have noted the 
concerns about what Mr P and the executor were told before the mortgage was applied for, 
but that information and advice was provided by the mortgage broker, not Aviva. As such, I 
cant consider it in this decision, and I wont be making any comment on it. This decision will 
only deal with the matter of the executors belief that the valuation was wrong, as that is the 
only part of the concerns raised for which Aviva has any responsibility.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are not property experts and so when it comes to deciding whether a property is 
suitable as security for borrowing, it will usually commission an independent expert to value 
the property and ensure that its nature fits with the lenders criteria. Where there are 
concerns about the valuation thats been produced, if it has been done by an independent 
expert, we can only consider whether the lender has appointed a suitably qualified expert. 
We cant look at the contents of the valuation as the surveyor doesnt fall within our remit 
and the valuation isnt a regulated activity. 
In this case Aviva appointed a RICS registered surveyor, which would be considered a 
suitably qualified expert. I cant find it did anything wrong in this respect. I am also satisfied 
that it acted appropriately in relying on that valuation when it agreed to the mortgage Mr P 
had asked for.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman