DRN-3811638
The complaint
Mr O complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc refused his credit limit increase.
What happened
Mr O says he opened a Sainsburys Bank credit card account but by the middle of 2022 had 
used most of his credit limit. He says he requested a credit limit increase but that was 
refused. Mr O says he doesnt have any adverse information on his credit file and would like 
the credit limit increased to £10,000.
Sainsburys Bank says it looks at a variety of factors when determining such requests and 
made a decision not to offer an increase to Mr O. It says its entitled to make such business 
decisions.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it up to Sainsburys Bank to make such decisions and it didnt need to 
provide reasons.
Mr O doesnt accept that view and says natural justice dictates that he should be told of the 
exact reasons for the refusal and says there is no accountability here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr O will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about this complaint. I make clear to Mr O that we are not Sainsburys Bank regulator and so 
its not our role to direct it about how it runs it business or the information it provides to its 
customers in these circumstances.
Im satisfied that its up to Sainsburys Bank to decide, when exercising its commercial 
judgement, if it offers a customer a credit limit increase or decrease. I dont think Mr O has a 
right to have his credit limit increased and am satisfied that the account terms and conditions 
make clear that Sainsburys Bank may change a credit limit. So, I dont think Sainsburys 
Bank has acted unfairly or made a mistake here by refusing Mr Os application. I also dont 
think its obliged to provide the exact reasons for such a refusal, as such information is likely 
to be commercially sensitive.
I appreciate Mr O says he doesnt have any adverse information on his credit file and has 
significant assets as well as investments. But I dont think that is necessarily relevant and am 
satisfied that any lender uses a variety of different forms of information when assessing such 
matters. 
Overall, Im satisfied its up to Sainsburys Bank to decide what its lending criteria is and 
what its risk appetite is. It follows that I cant fairly order it to either increase Mr Os credit 
card account limit or provide further information about its refusal to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman