DRN-4215332
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC lent irresponsibly when increasing the 
credit limit on his credit card.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr P applied for a credit card with Tesco in March 2019. In the application, Mr P advised he 
was employed with an income of £27,500 a year and a tenant. Tesco used a rental figure of 
£474, associated living costs and looked at Mr Ps credit file to get a picture of what he 
owed. Tesco says that if found Mr P had a reasonable level of disposable income available 
and approved a credit card with a limit of £250.
In July 2019 Tesco increased the credit limit to £600. In July 2020 Tesco increased the credit 
limit to £900, in October 2020 it was increased to £1,200 and in January 2021 the credit limit 
was increased to £1,500. Tesco says that each time the credit limit was increased it carried 
out checks on Mr Ps credit file and proceeded in line with its lending criteria.
Last year, Mr P complained that Tesco had lent irresponsibly when it approved the credit 
limit increases on his credit card. Tesco issued a final response but didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ps complaint and upheld it. They thought the 
checks completed by Tesco had failed to go far enough and that if it had carried out a more 
comprehensive review it wouldve likely decided not to proceed with further credit limit 
increases. Tesco asked to appeal and said Mr Ps credit card had been maintained without 
issue throughout its term and that there were no obvious signs he was struggling financially 
when it increased the credit limit. As Tesco asked to appeal, Mr Ps complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ps credit file and said they thought the level of short term 
borrowing from the time Tesco increased the credit limit in July 2019 shouldve caused it to 
carry out better checks. Ive looked at the credit file information Tesco had available at the 
point it increased Mr Ps credit limit but theres no obvious sign Mr P was utilising short term 
loans at the time it increased his credit limit in July 2019. Mr P has also forwarded a copy of 
his credit report that shows his borrowing around this time.
Ive reviewed the credit file but didnt see evidence of short term borrowing in 2019. I can see 
there were various short term loans from a business Ill call L between 2016 and 2018 but 
not in 2019. I can see a new loan in April 2019, but Im satisfied that was factored into 
Tescos lending decision in July 2019 when it increased Mr Ps credit limit. I also think its fair 
to note that the credit limit increase was for £350 which was reasonable modest in nature. 
Tescos confirmed Mr Ps credit card had been well managed, in line with the account terms. 
In my view, Tesco did complete reasonable and proportionate checks when deciding to
increase the credit limit to £600. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I havent been persuaded it 
was irresponsible for Tesco to increase his credit limit to £600.
Tesco next increased Mr Ps credit limit in July 2020 when it went up to £900. In my view, 
there were signs at this point that Mr P was unlikely to be able to support further borrowing. 
Mr Ps credit file shows he took out new borrowing with at least four separate lenders in the 
months after the credit limit increase to £600 was approved. In my view, that shouldve led 
Tesco to consider whether Mr P was relying on credit to make ends meet and whether 
further borrowing was sustainable.
There were a range of options available to Tesco to verify whether Mr P was able to support 
further borrowing. Ive looked at Mr Ps bank statements for the period immediately before 
the credit limit increase to £900 in July 2020. The bank statements show Mr Ps outgoings to 
support his existing credit took a substantial part of his income. When added to his rent and 
other associated living expenses, Mr Ps income doesnt appear to have been sufficient to 
meet his regular outgoings. In my view, if Tesco had completed more comprehensive checks 
like reviewing Mr Ps bank statements, it wouldnt have proceeded to increase his credit limit 
to £900 or further. In my view, Tesco lent irresponsibly from this point.
As I think Tesco lent irresponsibly when it increased Mr Ps credit limit to £900 it follows I 
also find the later increase to £1,500 was also unaffordable. Based on the information Ive 
seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint in line with the above.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr P responded and said he had nothing 
further to add. We didnt hear back from Tesco. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
settle as follows:- Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurance (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £600
- If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr P along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information recorded after 
July 2020 regarding the account from Mr Ps credit file
- Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £600, Tesco should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr P for the remaining amount. Once Mr 
P has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after July 
2020 in relation to the account should be removed from their credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman