DRN-3560267
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Burfield Financial Planning Limited (BFPL) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Mr H is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr H.
What happened
Mr H approached BFPL in early 2016 to discuss his DB scheme pension. Parts of the DB 
scheme were under assessment for potential entry into the Pension Protection Fund (PPF). 
Mr H was interested in knowing what his options were and says he was referred to BFPL by 
a colleague. Mr H completed an authority giving BFPL permission to gather information 
about his scheme.
BFPL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and 
objectives. It recorded that he was 58, married, in good health and had two non-dependent 
children. He was employed full time. He and his wife owned their home but had an 
outstanding interest only mortgage of approximately £90,000. He said that his plan for 
clearing this mortgage was to downsize when he retired. Mr H had no other outstanding 
debts and had savings totalling approximately £13,000. 
Mr H was interested in looking into his options as he understood, from information received 
as a result of the ongoing consultation, if the pension remained where it was or transferred to 
the PPF, he potentially couldnt access it until age 65. He said he intended to work for at 
least five more years and, if he felt he could, would continue to work until normal retirement 
age. But if he decided to, he may be interested in retiring early. 
BFPL also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to 
be cautious. 
Due to the ongoing assessment of the DB scheme the scheme administrators declined 
initially to provide a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for Mr Hs pension benefits. This 
was eventually provided in April 2017, when the assessment was concluded, and was 
confirmed to be £261,188.
BFPL produced a transfer value analysis (TVAS). The report summarised that its purpose 
was to give an indication of the likelihood of being able to match or exceed the benefits 
provided by the DB scheme by transferring. This set out that at age 65, the normal scheme 
retirement age, Mr H was estimated to be entitled to a full pension of £12,198 per year or a 
tax free cash (TFC) sum of £59,634 and a reduced annual pension of £8,945 under the DB 
scheme. The report included a calculation of the critical yield - the annual growth rate 
required of a new pension to allow Mr H to purchase equivalent benefits that would match 
the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme at retirement. It said, for retiring at age 65, the 
critical yield was 11.88% if Mr H took a full pension or 9.06% if he were to take TFC and a 
reduced pension. 
The TVAS also included a comparison to the benefits Mr H would likely be entitled to under 
the PPF. It estimated, if Mr Hs pension moved to the PPF, at age 65 he could be entitled to 
a pension of £10,729.36 per year or TFC of £54,916.73 and a reduced annual pension of 
£8,285.47. It also said that the critical yield required of a new pension to match these 
benefits was 4.74% if Mr H took a full pension or 3.79% if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension.
On 5 May 2017, BFPL advised Mr H to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension, 
take £5,000 tax free cash (TFC) and invest the remainder into one of the providers growth 
funds, commensurate with Mr Hs ATR. The suitability report, in a section entitled my 
recommendation, said the reasons for this recommendation were;
Mr Hs main concern was to maximise the benefits payable to his wife and family on 
premature death and the transfer achieved this.
Mr H wanted to protect the value of his fund as much as possible but at the same 
time achieve some growth. And this was achieved through aligning the investment to 
his ATR.
The new arrangement provided greater control and flexibility when accessing 
benefits.
The new plan also provided investment diversification which BFPL thought was 
appropriate.
Mr H would now benefit from the ongoing support of a financial adviser.
Mr H now had a pension he could transfer funds into.
The transfer provided Mr H peace of mind as it had moved his benefits away from the 
uncertain environment of the DB scheme.
BFPL also explained that the TFC was released as Mr H had said he wanted to contribute 
this amount towards his daughters wedding.
The transfer went ahead in line with the recommendation made. BFPL have provided Mr H 
with ongoing annual reviews of his pension arrangements  and it says Mr H has always 
been happy with these.
In 2021, Mr Hs representatives complained to BFPL about the suitability of the transfer 
advice. In short, they said Mr H didnt have a need to transfer and BFPL had failed to 
properly identify his real aims, so they believed that the transfer was unsuitable. BFPL did 
not uphold the complaint and as a result it was referred to our service.BFPL told our service that the suitability report was a catch all document that summarised 
many months of discussions. And its discussions with Mr H were more detailed than had 
been recorded. So, it felt the representative directly quoting extracts of the suitability report 
in the complaint did not truly reflect the situation. For example, it had recorded that death 
benefits had been a concern of Mr Hs. But it said this was different to improving these being 
an objective and this wasnt the main reason it had advocated a transfer. BFPL said its wider 
knowledge of the circumstances  such as that it had recorded in other documents that 
despite being in good health Mr H confirmed he smoked and consumed more than the 
guideline weekly amount of alcohol  meant him thinking about and having concerns 
regarding death benefits was reasonable. BFPL said a key objective of Mr Hs was to retire 
three years after the advice and use his pension to support his needs flexibly  with him 
being able to make changes when he began receiving his state pension. So overall it 
remained of the opinion that the advice was suitable. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He thought that the complaint should be 
upheld and BFPL should pay compensation. He thought Mr H was always likely to receive 
benefits of a lower value than he wouldve done under the DB scheme as a result of the 
transfer. And he didnt think the other aims that had been discussed  flexibility, improving 
death benefits and transferring because of concerns over the stability of the DB scheme   
were set in stone, in particular he didnt agree from the information available that Mr H had 
decided categorically he wanted to retire early. So, he didnt think these noted objectives 
meant transferring was suitable.
BFPL disagreed. It said the transfer had not been recommended on the basis of Mr H being 
better off as a result  although, as in the suitability report and its earlier responses to the 
complaint, it said it felt the critical yield was an inaccurate measure of this and didnt 
necessarily agree Mr H would be worse off. Rather it said the recommendation to transfer 
was based on a combination of objectives Mr H had discussed. It disagreed with the 
Investigator and said that Mr H had been very clear that he wanted to retire early  
something that was reinforced in its annual review conversations. And it said therefore the 
flexibility provided by the transfer, coupled with it achieving other aims such as improving 
death benefits, meant that BFPL still felt it was appropriate.
BFPL asked for the matter to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. As a result, it was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed arguments and a significant amount of documentation to 
consider. And Id like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all the evidence 
provided. If I dont comment on or refer to everything Ive been sent or that either party have 
said this isnt meant as a discourtesy or because I havent thought about it. Rather, it is 
because my decision will address what I consider to be the key issues in deciding what is 
fair and reasonable. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of BFPL's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, BFPL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Hs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
BFPL has said that the transfer wasnt recommended on the basis Mr H would receive better 
retirement benefits in his new scheme, rather that the other attributes of the scheme were 
more important  such as flexibility. But whether or not Mr H would receive greater 
retirement benefits or not is in my view still an important consideration when looking at 
whether the transfer was in his best interests.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr H was 59 at the time the advice was given in the suitability report. As I summarised 
above, the critical yield required to match Mr Hs benefits at age 65 was 11.88% if he took a 
full pension and 9.06% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. And The critical yield to match 
the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 4.74% per year if Mr H took 
a full pension and 3.79% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension. This compares 
with the discount rate of 3.1% per year for 5 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr H 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
9.06%, I think Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And this 
would be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF .
BFPL has said that Mr H was adamant he wanted to retire at age 62. Ill come back to this in 
more detail shortly. But I would just note the discount rate for retiring at age 62 was even 
lower, 2.7%. And, if it was the case as BFPL says that Mr H wanted to retire at 62, Id have 
expected to see a comparison of the benefits available and critical yield required at age 62 
carried out. 
BFPL has said that critical yields for short terms to retirement are flawed and result in 
skewed calculations. And it has suggested that it doesnt think these are reliable. It made 
similar comments in the suitability report suggesting to Mr H that the system was flawed. The 
suitability report went on to say that the critical yields were, in BFPLs view, overstated by 
assumptions and that the real critical yield was closer to 4-5%, which it considered 
reasonable.
I dont agree with BFPL on this point. And the FCA is clear that calculations must be made 
on this basis, and that these provide a valuable comparison for consumers. But in any event, 
even if the critical yield were in the region of 4-5%, which I dont agree it was, based on the 
discount rate, the regulators projections, term to retirement and Mr Hs age, this still wouldnt 
support that Mr H would receive greater benefits as a result of transferring.
So, from a financial viability point of view, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs 
best interests.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice  and 
BFPL has said it wasnt a reason for the recommendation at all here. As Ive said though, I 
think it is an important consideration when looking at whether the transfer was in Mr Hs best 
interests. I have though considered the other reasons for transferring that BFPL have set 
out.
Flexibility and income needs
Mr H took a small portion of TFC, £5,000, at the point of transferring, to make a contribution 
to his daughters wedding. BFPL has said that this wasnt a motivation for transferring or a 
reason for its recommendation and was just an option that became available to him. But for 
clarity and the avoidance of doubt, I dont think Mr H had a need to take this TFC. He had 
savings available that significantly exceeded the amount taken, which couldve allowed him 
to meet the same objective.
In the initial conversation Mr H had with BFPL, which Ive listened to a recording of, he said 
he intended to work for at least another five years and may continue to do so until state 
retirement age, depending on how he felt. But he might take the decision at some point to 
retire early.
BFPL has said in the contact that followed, prior to the suitability report, Mr H became 
adamant that he in fact intended to retire at age 62, three years after the advice  although 
recordings of those calls are unfortunately unavailable. But it has pointed to the fact that, in 
his annual reviews, Mr H mentioned having previously said he would look to retire at age 62. As a result, BFPL says that the flexibility afforded to Mr H by transferring was needed. Both 
so that he could take his benefits early and so that he could vary the amount of income he 
drew from his pension to meet his income needs  taking more initially, then scaling this 
back when other retirement provisions, particularly state pension, came into effect. And so, it 
considers that the recommendation to transfer was suitable.
Ive taken on board what BFPL has said. And I dont doubt that the option of early retirement 
was likely discussed again between the initial call and the recommendation being made. But 
I cant rule out that Mr H expressing a stronger preference for retiring early, if he did so, was 
as a result of this being a potential benefit of transferring being reiterated to him by BFPL. 
And I also note, in the first annual review call with Mr H he said he intended to work for at 
least another couple of years but that he may work longer as he would see how he felt. 
Indicating this objective was still flexible at that point.
Taking all of this into account, on balance I dont think Mr H had made a definitive decision 
about retiring early at the time of the advice. And so, I dont think he had a need for flexibility 
in his pension arrangements at that time. Had he later made a more definitive decision and 
opted to retire early; he couldve revisited his options. But I dont think he needed flexibility, 
at the point of the advice. And so, I dont think making a recommendation that he transfer for 
this reason, which was an irreversible decision and, as Ive already explained, was likely to 
result in him receiving benefits which were overall lower in value than those due under the 
DB scheme, was in his best interests.
BFPL has said that there was the distinct possibility that the DB scheme couldve ended up 
being transferred to the PPF, which wouldve meant Mr H lost the option to make this choice 
in the future. But my understanding is that the part of the DB scheme Mr Hs benefits was 
held under wasnt under assessment for potential entry to the PPF. Other parts of the DB 
scheme had been, and this had delayed the provision of CETVs to members in Mr Hs part 
of the scheme. But his part of the scheme wasnt, as I understand it, under threat at that 
stage. So, I dont think a decision around transferring to obtain flexibility had to be made at 
that time. 
Im also not sure Mr H wanted control over his pension benefits  something BPFL said the 
flexibility provided by the new arrangement gave him. Mr H was not an experienced investor 
and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on their own. BFPL has said that Mr H recalled unprompted a lot of details 
about the pension, previous conversations and other financial information. So, it argues he 
was financially sophisticated. But I dont think him having a good recollection of discussions 
or understanding what BFPL told him, shows he was an experienced investor or had more 
pensions knowledge than the average consumer. Indeed, in several of the conversations Ive 
listened to between Mr H and BFPL, he was clear that pensions werent something he knew 
about or had thought about a great deal, prior to discussing his options here. And he also 
said to BFPL, in his first annual review, that after the transfer he hadnt looked at the 
performance of his pension at all. This is not to my mind indicative of somebody who had a 
genuine objective for control. And I think this was instead simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
Death benefits
The suitability report said that death benefits were Mr Hs major concern and a reason for 
the recommendation. But BFPL has said that these were not an objective and not a reason 
for the recommendation. But it feels the concern was reasonable and transferring addressed 
this.The concern about maximising death benefits and the transfer achieving this was listed as 
the first bullet point in the my recommendation section of the suitability report, immediately 
following the sentence I have recommended that you transfer your existing pensions 
benefits into a personal pension for the following reasons. Based on this, I find it very 
difficult to agree with BFPL that this was not a reason for the recommendation. And I 
certainly think Mr H was likely to, reasonably, think this was a reason for the transfer having 
been recommended.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think BFPL explored to what extent 
Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed 
somewhat. Mr H was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme 
wouldve been useful to Mrs H if Mr H predeceased her. This benefit was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was.
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death under the personal pension, as well as being dependent on 
investment performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr H drew in his 
lifetime. Mr H was recorded as being in good health. BFPL has noted he also said he was a 
smoker and drank more than the weekly guideline amount of alcohol. So, it was reasonable 
to think that his life expectancy might be affected by this. But I dont think there was anything 
to suggest at the time that Mr Hs life expectancy was likely to be less than wouldve took 
him to the point of drawing benefits. Or that he wasnt likely to draw benefits for a significant 
number of years. And BFPLs advice was based on Mr H having to draw larger amounts in 
the first few years of retirement. So, it seems that the pension fund was likely to be 
significantly depleted, even if Mr H passed away prior to his average life expectancy. So, it 
wouldnt have provided the same legacy. 
In any event, BFPL should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. And overall, I dont 
think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
It isnt disputed that when Mr H contacted BPFL, the PPF had been mentioned in relation to 
the DB scheme and that assessments of some parts of the scheme were ongoing. The 
conversations he had with BPFL also reflected him being worried about potentially losing 
10% of his pension fund, if it were transferred to the PPF.
Again though, the part of the DB scheme under which Mr Hs pension benefits were held 
wasnt, as I understand it, under PPF assessment. The scheme as a whole was 
underfunded. But I dont think the threat to Mr Hs pension benefits was as immediate and 
concerning as Mr H mightve initially thought.Furthermore, if the scheme did end up moving to the PPF, I think BPFL should have 
explained that this was not as concerning as Mr H mightve thought. The benefits he 
wouldve received, while reduced, were still guaranteed. And as Ive explained above, Mr H 
was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF, if 
he transferred out to a personal pension.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But BPFL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. And in my view, the other reasons BFPL has set out for the advice 
werent essential, as it has indicated, and werent compelling enough to justify a transfer and 
Mr H receiving lower overall benefits.
So, I think BFPL shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against BFPL's 
advice. And Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted 
on transferring out of the DB scheme, against BFPLs advice. As Ive explained previously, 
despite BFPLs arguments to the contrary, Im satisfied that Mr H was an inexperienced 
investor. He had a cautious attitude to risk. And this pension accounted for the majority of 
Mr Hs private retirement provisions and a significant portion of his overall provisions. So, if 
BFPL had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs thoughts or concerns about his death benefits or the DB 
scheme were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional 
adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best 
interests at the time. I think BFPLs advice wouldve carried significant weight. And had it 
been clear about the value of the existing benefits, including the death benefits, and that the 
PPF was not as great a cause for concern as Mr H mightve initially thought, so Mr H didnt 
need to risk his guaranteed pension, I dont think Mr H would have insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think BFPL should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for BFPLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr H, via his representative, whether he preferred any redress to be 
calculated now in line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance / rules to be 
published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H. 
BFPL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I understand Mr H has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision. And a copy of this 
calculation, in an easy to understand format, should be provided to Mr H and his 
representative.
BFPL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date BFPL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BFPL to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect BFPL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Burfield Financial 
Planning Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. 
The calculation of the compensation amount should be shared with Mr H and his 
representatives.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Burfield Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Burfield 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Burfield Financial Planning Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Burfield Financial 
Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman