DRN-3693131
The complaint
Mr H complains, through his representative, that Dante Partners LLP failed to provide him 
with suitable advice when he took out a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with 
Gaudi Regulated Services Limited (Gaudi) and invested in Affinity Global Developments.
What happened
Mr H had an existing SIPP with another pension provider. Mr H says that an 
unregulated introducer introduced him to Dante Partners.
In February 2015, Mr H signed a form to take out a SIPP with Gaudi. In April 2015, 
£48,648.61 was transferred from Mr Hs original SIPP to his new Gaudi SIPP. The 
paperwork Mr H signed showed that Mr H acknowledged Gaudi completed this 
transaction on an execution only basis.
Upon transfer, the money in Mr Hs SIPP was transferred to Beaufort Securities, a broker, 
to make investments on Mr Hs behalf. This led to around £48,000 being invested with 
Affinity Global Developments. In May 2020, Affinity Global Developments entered 
liquidation, resulting in the probable loss of Mr Hs investment funds.
Mr H complained to both Dante Partners and Gaudi about the lack of suitable advice. In its 
final response on Mr Hs complaint, Gaudi said that Dante Partners LLP on behalf of its 
authorized representative, IPO Capital Partners Limited, was regulated for the purposes of making 
financial promotions to retail clients. It was they who were responsible for any promotion or approach 
to Mr H.
Dante Partners did not accept responsibility as it said it had no record of Mr H being a client.
As neither Dante Partners nor Gaudi accepted responsibility. Mr H referred 
complaints about both companies to this service. This complaint concerns Dante 
Partners only.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint against Dante Partners and did not 
recommend that it was upheld. He concluded that it had not been shown that Dante 
Partners had failed in its duty to provide Mr H with advice before he proceeded with 
his investment into Affinity Global Developments.
Mr H, through his representative, did not accept our investigators recommendation 
and asked for his case to be referred to an ombudsman. The representative referred 
this service to other decisions involving execution only transfers and another ongoing 
complaint against Dante Partners, which it said was similar to Mr Hs. 
Mr Hs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at all of the cases Mr Hs representative has referred to. Having done 
so, I agree with our investigator that Mr Hs complaint cant reasonably be upheld based on 
the available evidence. This service considers each case on its own set of facts and 
circumstances. I cant see that the approach we are taking in Mr Hs case is inconsistent with 
our approach in these other cases. 
There is little available from the time of events to show what happened before Mr H 
completed Gaudis SIPP application and what, if any, involvement Dante Partners had 
in influencing Mr Hs decision to invest through Beaufort Securities into the Affinity 
Global Developments investment.
It seems likely that Mr H had contact with an unregulated introducer. But, after that there is 
a lack of evidence trail to show Dante Partners involvement, if any. Dante Partners says it 
has no records showing Mr H as a client. Further, it says it has never booked any 
commission in connection with him. I have not seen any documentation to support the 
statement made by Gaudi about Dante Partners involvement.
The Gaudi SIPP application form is blank where details of a financial adviser can be 
included.
Dante Partners were a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated introducer, at the time 
that this investment took place. However, it had been specifically restricted by the FCA 
from carrying on any investment services and activities (to which MiFID applies) on a 
regular basis except reception and transmission of orders in relation to one or more 
financial instruments or investment advice. I have not seen any evidence here of Dante 
Partners disobeying this restriction.
Like our investigator, I think it unlikely that Mr H would have proceeded with this investment 
without taking some form of advice or there being some tangible input to influence his 
decision. However, it is not clear that more likely than not, this advice or influence came 
from Dante Partners. Where there is a conflict in the evidence, it is for the party making the 
assertion, in this case, Mr H, to show that more likely than not what he is asserting is borne 
out by the evidence. Mr H has not satisfied me of that. I therefore cant reasonably uphold 
Mr Hs complaint against Dante Partners based on what I have seen and heard.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman