DRN-3568018
The complaint
Miss U is unhappy with Monzo Bank Ltd because its not refunding the money she lost after 
she became the victim of a scam. 
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 19 November 2021 covered 
the detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Miss Us testimony. But briefly:
Miss U has said she was the victim of a scam. She explained that her 16-year-old brother 
was looking for a £100,000 loan for a football scholarship. Miss U says her brother found a 
loan with an organisation - I will refer to as T. T advised that, due to her brothers age, a 
guarantor would be needed to guarantee the loan repayments. So, Miss U agreed to make 
the repayments. Between 15 February 2021 and 3 March 2021, Miss U made around 15 
payments totalling £14,845. Initially T told Miss U she needed to make the first repayment 
before receiving the loan money as her credit score was so low. It then told her she needed 
to transfer various sums of money in advance of the loan to cover things such as, insurance, 
fast track payment and solicitors fees. 
I have summarised the disputed transactions below:
Date Amount Funds remaining on 5 
March 2021Funds left account within
15 February 2021 £595 £0 1 hr 14 mins
17 February 2021 £950 £0 6 mins
18 February 2021 £1,750 partial 2 mins
19 February 2021 £1,750 full
23 February 2021 £950 £0 5 mins
25 February 2021 £900 partial 16 mins
25 February 2021 £450 partial 16 mins
1 March 2021 £975 £0 11 mins
1 March 2021 £575 £0 1 min
1 March 2021 £900 full
1 March 2021 £650* Not on list for recovery 
 2 March 2021 £900 £0 20 mins
3 March 2021 £1,750 £0 8 mins
3 March 2021 £950 £0 8 mins
3 March 2021 £800 £0 8 mins
Monzo didnt think Miss U took enough steps to check who she was paying and what for. It 
believes she placed her account at risk and that she didnt take reasonable measures to 
protect herself. It also believes Miss U ignored an effective warning.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She felt that even if Miss U had received an 
effective warning, she would have proceeded with the payments anyway. She also didnt 
think Miss U had a reasonable basis for believing the payments she made were for a 
genuine purpose. However, it transpired that Monzo had actually been able to recover some 
of Miss Us funds but hadnt returned these to her  so it proposed to return those along with 
simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum.
Miss U did not accept the investigators view. I issued my provisional decision explaining 
why I was reaching a slightly different outcome to the investigator.
Monzo withdrew its offer to refund the £650  a transaction that it did not reach out to the 
beneficiary bank to seek recovery of. It replaced this with an offer for 50% of the transaction 
(so £325). Although we sought to explain to Monzo that it would in fact need to find out what 
the actual position was with the beneficiary bank at the time it should have reached out  it 
declined to do so. We explained the position to Miss U and that if we reached out to the 
beneficiary bank she could get more or less than the offer from Monzo depending on what 
the actual position was. Miss U decided to accept the £325.
Monzo also didnt agree an award for £350.00 distress and inconvenience would be 
appropriate in this case. It said it admitted that it made an error in reaching out and has now 
credited Miss U 50%. It proposed to offer a credit of £75.00 for dispute handling errors.
Monzo made no further comments on my proposals for it to refund 50% of the transactions 
from 2 to 3 March 2021 inclusive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Monzos response to my provisional decision. 
Monzo withdrew its offer to refund the £650  a transaction that it did not reach out to the 
beneficiary bank to seek recovery of. It said there was a misunderstanding its end. It 
replaced this with an offer for 50% of the transaction (so £325). Although we sought to 
explain to Monzo that it would in fact need to find out what the actual position was with the 
beneficiary bank at the time it should have reached out  it declined to do so. 
Monzo ought to realise that liability in this instance is not 50% of the transaction  but 
instead it should reflect the actual position the consumer would have been in had it reached 
out in a timely manner. That would require it knowing what, if any, funds remained within a 
timely manner of Miss U reporting the scam.
However, we explained the position to Miss U and that if we reached out to the beneficiary 
bank she could get more or less than the offer from Monzo depending on what the actual 
position was with any remaining funds. As Miss U has decided to accept the £325  we 
havent reached out to the beneficiary bank to find out the actual position and Ive not 
considered this point any further. 
Monzo also didnt agree an award for £350.00 distress and inconvenience would be 
appropriate in this case. It said it admitted that it made an error in reaching out and has now 
credited Miss U 50% of that transaction. It proposed to offer a credit of £75.00 for dispute 
handling errors. I think Monzo has misunderstood what my award for £350 for distress and inconvenience 
reflects. It is not just a matter of Monzo failing to reach out on one of the transactions. It is 
actually the fact that it did reach out and recovered funds from four of the transactions 
amounting to £2,680.25. This was in March 2021. Monzo did not return these funds to Miss 
U as it should have done. Instead it kept the recovered funds that were rightfully Miss Us. It 
wasnt until our involvement in January 2022 that this came to light.
So, other than the 50% offer on the £650 transaction, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. I have concluded that the fair and reasonable 
outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint in part. For 
completeness, I have set this out below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute
here that Miss U authorised the payments.
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable
in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo should have reimbursed Miss U in line with the
provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM
Code) it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss U
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Miss U was tricked into making the payments. She thought she
was paying fees towards a loan and this wasnt the case. But this isnt enough, in itself, for
Miss U to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of
care on Miss U too.
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the CRM Code. The CRM Code requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
Miss U ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
Miss U made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person she was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or 
services; and/or the person or business with whom Miss U transacted was 
legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Did Miss U have a reasonable basis for belief?I dont think Miss U had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for a 
genuine loan or that the person she transacted with was legitimate. I say this because:
The loan was for £100,000 and repayments £595 per month over 20 years. In my 
view this was a big commitment and one that should have led to a greater degree 
of checking on Miss Us part.
The paperwork reflected that the £100,000 loan agreement was in Miss Us 
16-year old brothers name - with paperwork to follow about Miss U acting as 
guarantor. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect a legitimate loan 
company to offer a £100,000.00 to a 16-year-old  even with a guarantor.
Miss U has not suggested that she completed any research before transferring 
her money (certainly in the first instance) to check she was doing so safely. She 
didnt search the loan company or check the number they were calling from 
before making the payments. Miss U says she relied on the research she thought 
her brother completed.
Miss U was sent documentation by email about the loan from the scammers. There 
were several errors on the documents  including spelling mistakes (the actual loan 
companys name was spelt incorrectly) and grammatical errors. In addition, the 
contact telephone number on the documentation appears to be for a company 
which has no link to T. The company registration number (at the bottom of the 
page) related to another separate financial organisation. Overall, the language 
used by the scammer wasnt professional and isnt what Id expect of a genuine 
loan provider. This should have caused suspicion.
The loan agreement explained that for creditability and affordability check the first 
loan payment would need to be paid in advance. This is not the usual way for a 
credit checks to be carried out. Miss U acknowledged she thought this was 
unusual.
Unfortunately, the website given to Miss U from the scammers is no longer active 
but Monzo says it was able to view it when it first looked into Miss Us complaint. It 
says the address on the website was for a launderette and that the website 
showed as being unsecure. It says this should have caused concern for Miss U.
Miss U paid 10 different individual payees none of which resembled a business 
account. This is not what Id expect if Miss U was transacting with a genuine 
company. Miss U acknowledged that the number of different payees caused her 
concern and she says she questioned this. But I dont consider the explanation 
she was given by the scammer was particularly persuasive.
Its clear that at some stages Miss U had doubts and asked the scammer about 
her concerns. She relied on the scammers answer that it was all okay. I consider 
that if Miss U had these doubts, she ought reasonably to have done more to 
check elsewhere that the loan company was legitimate.
I note from the chat history between Miss U and Monzo that on 1 March 2021, 
Miss U explained to Monzo that she was worried she might be getting scammed by 
the loan company (something I will come on to below). Monzo sent a response 
acknowledging her message and told Miss U not to send any more money whilst 
they looked into it. Despite this, Miss U continued to make transfers until the final 
transfer on 3 March 2021.
Overall, I think there was enough going on to have raised significant concerns about the
transactions Miss U was making from the start. And this, fairly and reasonably, ought to haveled to Miss U taking a more cautious approach in deciding whether to make the payments. I
think further steps could, and should, have been taken, in order to meet the required level of
care under the CRM Code. So, I cant fairly say that Miss U met her requirements under the
Code.
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss U?
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide effective warnings (as set out
in the CRM Code) to their customers. The Code also says that the assessment of whether a
firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam.
Im also mindful that when Miss U made these payments, Monzo should fairly and
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other
signs that might indicate that she was at risk of fraud. So, Ive also considered whether the
payments Miss U made were unusual or suspicious. But the payments were for relatively
small sums and not made in quick succession and they were not unusual based on Miss Us
normal account activity. I dont consider that the payments were so unusual, or out of
character, that Monzo should have recognised a scam risk.
Under the standards for firms, a firm is only required to give an effective warning under the
CRM Code when it identifies an authorised push payment (APP) scam risk in the payment
journey.
In this case, for the reasons explained, I dont think payments Miss U made ought 
reasonably to have been considered an APP risk by Monzo, so I dont think it needed to
provide effective warnings under the code.
However, on 1 March 2021, Monzo was put on notice that Miss U was potentially falling
victim to a scam. Miss U had sent a message using the banks chat function. She explained
she had been sending payments to a particular bank account she was asking Monzo if it was
a legitimate account. She explained she was trying to get a loan - but was being made to
send payments to different accounts. And after Monzo responded asking her not to make
any further payments, she explained that said shed been making payments to these people
because of the loan that she was getting but she was starting to think maybe it could be a
scam. She said she didnt know why she had to send different payments to different
accounts. I think this ought reasonably to have flagged to Monzo as a potential loan fee
scam.
Whilst I accept these events support Miss U continued not to have a reasonable basis for
belief  as she ignored the banks advice not to make any more payments - I also think
Monzo ought to have identified a risk in the payment journey at this point and therefore
provided an effective warning. It also took it longer than 8 hours to get back in touch with
Miss U with a more meaningful conversation about the scam. If the conversations that took
place on 3 March 2021 had been bought forward - I think it would have made a difference. In 
fact, I think it would have been more effective if Monzo had called Miss U.
Monzo has said that in all but one of the transactions (where the payment was to an 
existing payee) Miss U was shown warnings about the types of scams that can sometimes 
be perpetrated when she processed the payment. Based on what Monzo has sent us, I 
dont think this warning would be considered effective as defined by the CRM code - 
which sets out effective warnings should be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and 
specific. The warning doesnt relate to Miss Us situation or the scam she was falling 
victim to. It doesnt bring to life the nature of the scams by setting out how fraudsters tend to perpetrate them, and it doesnt refer to the consequences of making a scam payment. 
So, I dont think it was impactful or specific. Because Monzo hasnt been able to 
demonstrate Miss U ignored effective warnings after it was put on notice that she was 
potentially falling victim to a scam on 1 March 2021 - this exception doesnt apply to those 
last four payments.
I dont think Miss U met her requisite level of care, but also that Monzo couldve done 
more to protect Miss U for the last four transactions.
It therefore follows that I currently dont think that Monzos refusal to reimburse Miss U for 
the transactions up to (but not including) 2 March 2021 is unfair or unreasonable.
However, because I think Monzo ought to have done more from 2 March 2021, I think a 
50% split of liability is a fair and reasonable outcome for the transactions on 2 and 3 March 
2021.
Did Monzo do enough to recover Miss Us funds?
Monzo contacted the receiving bank at 09:00 on 4 March 2021. The beneficiary bank 
responded on 5 March 2021 explaining full and partial funds remained in accordance with 
the table above. It also provided details of when the unrecoverable funds left the 
accounts. Having considered these, even if I said Monzo ought to have acted sooner in 
chasing recovery, I dont consider it would make a difference in this case as the 
scammers removed the remaining funds within minutes of the transactions taking place.
However, as I understand it, Monzo received the recovered payments of £2,680.25 on 5 
March 2021 but only offered to return this sum to Miss U when the investigator questioned 
it in January 2022. I also made further enquiries, via the investigator, regarding the 
payment of £650 on 1 March 2021 - as I couldnt see this listed on the request for recovery 
of funds on 4 March 2021. Monzo has now agreed to refund 50% of this transaction  so 
£325 and Miss U has accepted that offer.
Ive also considered whether Monzo should pay Miss U further compensation to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of its actions. Monzos failure 
to sufficiently act - specifically with regard to the recovery of funds and returning what was 
due to Miss U, has had an impact on Miss U, not least because she has been facing the 
very real possibility that she would not get any of her money back. Monzo had an 
opportunity to return recovered funds and ensure it asked for all transactions to be 
recovered. Miss U has explained the impact of this scam on her and I consider Monzo has 
exacerbated this by not returning funds in a reasonable timescale. So, I think Monzo 
should pay Miss U a further £350 compensation to reflect the unnecessary distress it has 
caused her.
I realise Miss U may still be disappointed with this outcome, I do accept she has fallen 
victim to what can only be described as a cruel and callous scam. Im sorry she has lost 
money and I can understand why she would like to be compensated for all her losses. 
However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation she finds herself in ultimately, I 
dont think that Monzos refusal to reimburse Miss U for those initial transactions unfair or 
unreasonable. I do think it should refund 50% of the last four transactions.
.Putting things right
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right as follows:
Return the recovered funds of £2,680.25 to Miss UAdd interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum to the above from the date of 
recovery to the date of settlement
Return £325 of potentially unrecovered funds
Add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum to the above from the date funds 
ought to have been recovered to the date of settlement
Refund 50% of the transactions that took place on 2 and 3 March 2021
Add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the transactions to 
the date of settlement
Pay £350 toward the distress and inconvenience caused
If Monzo is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Miss U a tax 
deduction certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman