DRN-3545656
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC held him liable for transactions on his account 
that he didnt recognise and lodged markers with fraud prevention organisations.
What happened
Mr M became aware of a number of incoming and outgoing payments using his account that 
he didnt recognise. At the time he explained his Barclays banking app wasnt working and 
he was unaware of what was going on till sometime after these transactions were 
completed. Mr M received a notice from Barclays that they were freezing his account while 
they investigated the matter.
Barclays received several fraud reports from other banks about the funds received into Mr 
Ms account and after investigating they closed Mr Ms account immediately. Some 
remaining funds were recovered which were returned to the sending banks. Barclays 
believed Mr M had been involved in the movement of fraudulent funds and lodged markers 
with national fraud prevention services.
Mr M complained to Barclays and explained that he was asleep when the transactions were 
made using his account and he had nothing to do with the incoming funds or the merchant 
that they were all transferred to. The funds all went to a crypto currency merchant after a 
new payee was set up using Mr Ms account.
Mr M confirmed he hadnt given his security details for his phone or his mobile banking 
password to anyone. He also confirmed he hadnt lent his phone to anyone and he still had 
possession of his debit card.
After Barclays investigated the complaint, they didnt change their position. Mr M remained 
unhappy and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information 
about the complaint.
Mr M repeated his version of events and denied having anything to do with the incoming 
fraudulent funds or knowledge of crypto trading. Mr M said he was asleep at the time of the 
disputed transactions with his phone next to him. Mr M recognised that Barclays can close a 
customers account.
Barclays provided details of the payments, their investigation, and the use of Mr Ms mobile 
banking app. Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Barclays to close the account 
and lodge a marker against Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M accepts that Barclays can close a customers account, what hes complaining about 
here is that theyve held him responsible for the fraudulent transactions without a thorough 
investigation. Mr M maintains that he had nothing to do with the incoming or outgoing 
transactions that have since been identified as fraudulent.
Barclays received notifications that payments received into Mr Ms account were the result of 
fraud. When they looked into what happened, they identified that a new payee had been set 
up using Mr Ms mobile banking app. This was registered on his phone and that the new 
payee was confirmed using details from his debit card. 
Barclays believed this was sufficient evidence to close Mr Ms account and lodge markers 
with fraud prevention organisations, the principal one being CIFAS. As Mr M accepts 
Barclays can close his account, I dont need to consider their actions concerning this. 
So, Ive looked at how Barclays dealt with the account and whether they fairly followed 
procedures to lodge markers against Mr M.
In order to do that, Barclays are required to meet certain standards, the essential ones are:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
Once Barclays received notification that incoming funds were from fraudulent activity, this 
was enough to believe they had reasonable grounds that a fraud or a financial crime had 
been committed or attempted.
The crux of this complaint is whether Barclays could satisfy the second aspect of the CIFAS 
rules and whether their evidence was such that they could confidently report the conduct of 
Mr M to the police (if they chose to).
Mr M has explained that his banking app wasnt available and that he was asleep when the 
transactions occurred. Hes confirmed no-one else had access to his phone or knew the 
security details to access his phone or the banking app. 
Barclays have provided evidence that Mr Ms phone was used on numerous occasions over 
four days to move funds out of the account to the new payee set up using Mr Ms phone and 
confirmed with details from his debit card. The transactions were done very early in the 
morning. Barclays evidence also shows that the IP address data was consistent throughout 
the disputed transactions and matched other undisputed transactions. 
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
What that means here is that the evidence shows Mr Ms banking app was available and 
being used regularly despite his belief it was out of service. It was also logging on from a 
location that Mr M had previously used. Because the security details issued to Mr M to 
access the banking app werent known to anyone else, I think it unlikely that an unknown 
third party was able to regularly gain access to his phone in a room whilst Mr M says he was 
asleep, open the phone with security information known only to Mr M and then complete various transactions  particularly over four different days for extended periods of time  all 
without him realising.
Taken together, I think it more likely than not that Mr M was responsible for making these 
transactions or enabling someone else to do them on his behalf. I also think that this 
information held by Barclays which they reviewed as part of their investigation met the 
standards laid down by CIFAS. 
I appreciate Mr M believes Barclays didnt thoroughly investigate the issue, but I think 
Barclays acted reasonably when they lodged a marker with fraud prevention agencies based 
on the information they gathered about the transactions. In respect of the CIFAs marker, Im 
satisfied they met the required levels of evidence and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman