DRN-3143963
Complaint
Mrs L is unhappy TSB Bank plc (TSB) charged her a returned item fee after there were 
insufficient funds in her account to pay a standing order.
Background
TSB didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. It said the funds to pay a standing order werent in   
Mrs Ls account when it was due to be paid. And the terms and conditions of Mrs Ls account 
entitled it to make the charge. Mrs L remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ls concerns. She didnt think TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs L unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs L disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
amount TSB charged was fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of 
the service provided. Mrs L clearly didnt have the funds for the payment in question to be 
paid. And ultimately how much a bank charges in this circumstance is a commercial decision 
and it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mrs L if it applied a charge unfairly. I understand Mrs Ls strength of 
feeling on this matter and why she might be unhappy as her husband has had a similar 
charge refunded. But this doesnt change the fact that Mrs L didnt have sufficient funds in 
her account to make the payment in question and she was sent a notification letting her 
know she would be charged. And as far as I can see, there was nothing to suggest that 
applying the charge would cause Mrs L hardship, or that it would be, or it is, unfair for any 
other reason.
As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said, I dont think that TSB needs to 
refund the charge in question and Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for Mrs L  especially as she says her husband has had a similar 
complaint upheld. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman