DRN-3939324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about delays and other problems when they applied to Nationwide 
Building Society for additional mortgage borrowing. They say interest rates increased during 
the delay, leaving them out of pocket and emotionally stressed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a mortgage with Nationwide. Mr P started an online application for 
additional borrowing in early 2022. He says he had problems with Nationwides systems 
crashing and not being able to log into the application. Mr P says Nationwides response was 
slow and poor when he asked for help. 
Mr P was given an appointment with a mortgage adviser and made a successful application 
after this. But by this time the 1.64% rate hed originally chosen was no longer available, and 
there were further delays when Nationwide referred issues to the underwriters. 
Our investigator said it wasnt reasonable to require Nationwide to honour the rate Mr P 
chose when he made the first application. This was because the application failed 
affordability and the product was withdrawn before Mr P made a new application for a lower 
amount in mid-February 2022. Mr and Mrs P received a mortgage offer on 7 March 2022, 
and the investigator said this timeframe was reasonable. Nationwide had said its 
communication could have been clearer when handling Mr and Mrs Ps applications and 
paid £100, which the investigator said was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. Mr P said the issue with affordability was one of many issues that 
could have been resolved with one phone call. Despite him asking for this, it didnt happen 
until after the rates had changed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P applied online for a further advance in early 2022. He says there were issues with 
Nationwides systems which meant the applications didnt progress. 
Nationwide says there were issues with affordability. This was due to Nationwide not 
including Mr Ps bonus in its affordability assessment. Further issues with Mr and Mrs Ps 
applications included questions about Mr Ps credit commitments and whether the loan term 
went past his intended retirement. 
Mr P met with Nationwides adviser in mid-February 2022. Mr P said he didnt require 
mortgage advice. He wanted to continue with his on-line application and retain the interest 
rate product hed chosen. The adviser submitted an appeal on behalf of Mr P. 
The underwriters said they couldnt proceed with the original application as the amount 
applied for didnt pass affordability tests. They said Mr and Mrs P could continue with an 
application for a lower amount.  
Mr P submitted a new application in mid-February 2022. He provided documents requested 
by the underwriters and received a mortgage offer on 9 March 2022. However, Mr and Mrs P 
had to take out a product with a higher interest rate than had been available in early 
February 2022.
Mr P says he could have made an application that met Nationwides criteria before the rates 
changed if it had told him what the problem was. He says his complaint is about the lack of 
transparency, multiple delays and conflicting information that led to his applications being 
cancelled and having to re-apply after the rates changed. 
Mr P says Nationwide wasnt transparent. If he means that it should have told him what its 
lending criteria are, then I cant agree. Lending criteria can be commercially sensitive, and I 
wouldnt expect a lender to provide them to customers. I also dont agree that Nationwide 
was responsible for unnecessary delays with the application process. Mr P chose to make 
the application online and on a non-advised basis, and I need to bear this in mind when 
considering what information Nationwide should fairly have provided. 
The initial application made by Mr and Mrs P was declined as unaffordable. Im satisfied that 
Nationwide applied its lending criteria correctly. Mr P says the complaint isnt about the 
lending criteria or how they were applied to his income, I wont address that further here. 
Whats important is that the application was declined and when Mr P made a new application 
he had to choose from the products available at that time. 
Nationwide said its communication could have been clearer when handling Mr and Mrs Ps 
applications and paid £100. I think this is fair. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Nationwide to pay further compensation or apply a lower interest rate product to Mr and 
Mrs Ps additional borrowing. Ive explained why below.
Mr and Mrs P were able to make a successful application once they reduced the amount 
applied for, reduced the term of the borrowing and repaid some credit commitments. If theyd 
known this at the outset they could have made an application in early February 2022 on this 
basis. 
I understand Mr Ps frustration, but for me to uphold this complaint Id need to find that 
Nationwide made an error and that it was this error that caused Mr and Mrs P to miss out on 
the interest rate product they wanted. Id need to find that Nationwide ought to have given 
Mr P an explanation for why the application was declined. Not just that it failed affordability 
but the underlying reasons for this, what Mr and Mrs P needed to change and how much 
borrowing theyd be able to apply for. And it would have needed to provide this information 
immediately, so that Mr P was in a position to make a new application straight away, before 
rates changed. 
Nationwide arranged a meeting with a mortgage adviser to assist Mr P with his application. I 
think this was a fair way to help Mr P when he had difficulty with the online application. I 
dont think there was any unreasonable delay in this meeting being arranged. Following the 
meeting Mr P was able to make a successful application. It was unfortunate for Mr and 
Mrs P that Nationwide changed its product range between early and mid-February 2022. But 
its entitled to do this at any time and without notice. 
Nationwide referred issues with Mr and Mrs Ps application to its underwriters. This is a 
normal part of its process, and I dont think it was unfair to do this. The mortgage offer was 
issued in early March 2022. I think Nationwide dealt with Mr and Mrs Ps application within a 
reasonable timeframe.  My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman