DRN-2617781
The complaint
Mr W complains that the settlement terms of his hire purchase agreement with Black Horse 
Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services were misrepresented. He wants the 
additional 30 days interest he says hes been charged to be refunded.
What happened
Mr W tells us that in October 2019, he entered the hire purchase agreement for a vehicle. 
The vehicle was acquired from a dealer Ill refer to as S.  And he says he made it clear that 
he was likely to repay the loan within a few months. Mr W explains that he was very 
particular to ensure that there would be no early payment penalties. And that he was 
assured by S that he would only have to pay interest up to the date of settlement. Mr W says 
hes now been charged an additional 30 days interest.
LRFS told us that the agreement had been settled in accordance with the relevant 
legislation. It said no error had been made.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think thered 
been any attempt to conceal the process. And said that LRFS hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr W didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it would both concerning and disappointing to Mr W to see that he had 
incurred a larger interest payment than he thought was due.
I also accept that its not likely to provide much consolation for him to learn that this service 
receives many complaints about this precise issue. Which can be quite complex.
Mr Ws complaint amounts to an allegation that the terms of the hire purchase agreement 
were misrepresented. In short, he says he was told there would be no early repayment 
penalty and no interest beyond the settlement date. And he says hes now been charged an 
additional 30 days interest.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
For obvious reasons, I wasnt present at the pre-agreement negotiations. But Ive noted 
carefully what Mr W has said on his complaint form. He states that he was told that there 
would be no early settlement penalty and that he wouldnt have to pay interest beyond the 
date of settlement. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement. And to suffer a loss as a result of that misrepresentation. Whilst I dont apply the 
law  directly  I do have regard for it. And here the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant 
legislation. It provides that if there had been a misrepresentation by S, in antecedent 
negotiations about the finance agreement, then LRFS would be equally liable for it.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im unable to say theres been a misrepresentation. Ill 
explain why.
Where a consumer chooses to settle a hire purchase agreement in advance of the due date, 
the creditor business is obliged to calculate the sum due to settle the agreement in 
accordance with the relevant legislation. Here thats the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
And the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. And the latter regulations 
contain the following provisions:
5. Settlement date
(1) The settlement date for calculation of the rebate in regulation 4 shall be taken to be (a)  
where the debtor has given notice under [section 94(1)]2 of the Act with a view to 
discharging his indebtedness under the agreement, the date falling 28 days after the date on 
which the notice was received by the creditor, or any later date specified as the date of early 
settlement in the notice, if the debtor pays the amount in question (less any rebate allowable 
under these Regulations) not later than that date;
6. Deferment of settlement date
(1)  Where the agreement provides for the credit to be repaid over, or at the end of, a period 
which is more than a year after the relevant date, the settlement date for calculation of the 
rebate may be deferred by
(a)  one month, or
(b)  where the length of a month's deferment would be more or less than 30 days and the 
creditor so elects, 30 days.
The agreement here was initially for more than one year. So in accordance with the 
regulations LRFS is permitted to calculate the rebate based upon a settlement date up to 58 
days after being notified by Mr W that he wishes to settle the agreement. 
So theres been no penalty and theres been no charge for interest after the settlement 
date. What has happened is that LRFS has exercised the right to defer the settlement date 
for 30 days which - taken together with the period of 28 days from the date of his notifying 
his intention to settle  explains the period for which interest was payable.
Im aware that Mr W has made the point that there was no specific reference to this extra 
30 days in the agreement. But the agreement did make reference to the relevant terms of 
the CCA and as to how Mr W could make an early resettlement.As I dont find that any false statement about the terms of the finance agreement was made 
by S, Im not able to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman