DRN-2277235
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with what Health Shield Friendly Society Limited did after he made a claim 
on his health cash plan insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr E has a health cash plan policy provided through his employer and insured by Health 
Shield. The policy pays up to a set amount for a variety of healthcare and wellbeing costs; it 
offers a £50 optical benefit. In October 2018 Mr E made a claim under the policy for new 
glasses hed bought. The receipt he provided showed a card payment of £47 with the 
remaining amount funded through a credit agreement. It also showed hed taken out 
insurance for his glasses.  
Health Shield requested further information on how the payment was made up as optical 
insurance wasnt covered by his policy. It also made a payment of £8 (the card payment 
amount less the cost of the insurance). In an initial response to the complaint Mr E made it 
accepted that payment was made incorrectly because it had assumed the card payment 
included the cost of the insurance. Health Shield had by then contacted the optician who 
said the £47 was a deposit for the glasses with the rest covered by finance. It said it would 
pay a further £39 and an additional £3 once Mr E made the first payment for the finance 
(taking the total amount to the £50 covered by the policy).
Mr E felt as Health Shield had made an error his complaint should have been upheld. So he 
escalated matters. Health Shield sent a final response to that complaint in late November 
2018. It said it had reviewed the previous conversation with the optician and it was now 
unclear whether the £47 payment did in fact include insurance. It said Mr E would need to 
obtain a letter from the optician confirming it didnt. Mr E did that in December and the 
outstanding claim value was paid to him following that. 
Our investigator thought Health Shield should have been able to clarify matters with the 
optician during its initial call with them. And he thought not doing so had caused Mr E some 
unnecessary inconvenience and had likely delayed the payment of his claim. So he thought 
Health Shield should pay Mr E £50 in recognition of the impact on him of that.
Mr E agreed though drew attention to unreliable evidence he believed Health Shield had 
relied on. Health Shield didnt agree. It said if Mr E had accepted the initial outcome to his 
complaint the claim would have been paid at that point and he wouldnt have needed to 
obtain a letter from his optician. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr E raised a number of issues when first contacting us about the complaint. 
However, in response to the investigators view (which covered those points) he accepted 
the outcome hed reached. So Ive focussed in this decision on the outstanding issue which 
is whether the proposed compensation payment is appropriate.  
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy. I can see that under what is not 
covered this includes insurance premiums. The receipt Mr E originally submitted with his 
claim did include a payment for insurance. I dont think it was clear whether this formed part 
of the upfront payment hed made or whether it was included in the credit hed taken out. I 
think it was reasonable of Health Shield to seek further information on this. 
However, Health Shield accepted it then made assumptions about how that payment was 
made up prior to receiving further information about this. And it then told him the optician had 
confirmed the payment didnt include the cost of insurance. But when the complaint was 
subsequently reviewed it realised that wasnt clear from the call. I think Health Shield should 
have tried to confirm the position with the optician during that initial call. I accept that might 
not have been possible but if that was the case it should have told Mr E at that point it would 
need him to get a letter from the optician. 
I appreciate Mr E did choose to escalate matters following the initial complaint response 
from Health Shield but I dont think that negates the fact he was given inaccurate information 
about the position on his claim in that response. If hed been correctly advised he needed to 
obtain a letter from his optician I think it likely hed have done that (regardless of whether he 
also pursued the complaint). So Health Shield would have been in a position to pay his claim 
based on correct information at an earlier date. I think a payment of £50 is reasonable to 
recognise the impact on Mr E of that not being done.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Health Shield Friendly Society Limited will need to put 
things right by paying Mr E £50
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman