DRN-3249425
The complaint
Ms K complains about the transfer value she received when she transferred her Utmost 
pension fund into an Aviva Pension Account. 
She says the amount that was transferred was much lower than the fund value she had 
received a few months earlier. She thinks Utmost should have done more to make sure that 
she was informed about this before the transfer took place. 
Ms K also says Utmost should have transferred her funds in specie. That is the fund should 
not have been transferred into cash before the transfer. 
What happened
Ms K approached Utmost in February 2020 to transfer her personal pension plan fund to 
another provider. She says that she needed to do this as Utmost didnt offer a flexi access 
drawdown. She was provided with a current fund value of £24,414.66. This fund value said 
that: 
This value will vary from day to day and is not guaranteed. The current level of any bonuses 
that apply have been included.' 
It also said: 
'The current value shown is the value on exit. It has been reduced by an early exit charge 
because some or all of the units held in your plan(s) are invested in a Capital fund.
In March 2020 Ms K used a third-party transfer service to transfer her pension fund to 
another provider. The fund value at the time of transfer was £19,931.12. This amount was 
transferred to another pension product with a different business. 
Ms K then made her complaint to Utmost. 
Utmost didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. It said the fund value had reduced in line with falls in 
global markets at the time. The correct transfer value was provided, and this was done in a 
timely manner. 
Ms K didnt agree with Utmosts assessment of her complaint and she brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. He said a flexi access drawdown was not 
available on Ms Ks pension and it didnt have to offer one. He said that Utmost had provided 
warnings that the pension could rise and fall and it hadnt delayed the transfer. The transfer 
value was correct, and it couldnt be transferred in specie. 
Ms K didnt agree, in particular she said that the fund was transferred into cash on surrender 
and wasnt reinvested for some time. 
As no agreement was reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
Ms K has said that she wanted to transfer her personal pension as her Utmost policy didnt 
offer the flexibility that she wanted. Her Utmost policy was started in 1994. As our 
investigator explained, pension providers started to offer polices with flexi-access drawdown 
after April 2015. Ms Ks policy was started before 2015 so it didnt have this feature. And in 
any event, pension providers were not required to offer this. 
So, whilst Ms K may have wanted to transfer because of this, Utmost wasnt acting 
incorrectly when it didnt offer this feature. And so, Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint 
because of this.  
Turning now to the transfer. It might be helpful to explain Utmosts responsibilities here. 
There is no evidence that Utmost was giving advice. So, it wouldnt have any responsibility 
to ensure this transfer was in Ms Ks best interests. Utmost was essentially acting on Ms Ks 
instructions. So, it needed to provide the information she asked for and process the transfer 
correctly, and within a reasonable time frame. Ive thought about whether it did this. 
As above, Utmost provided a transfer value to Ms K when she asked for it. And it also said 
that that the transfer value could rise or fall when the transfer was made. It didnt have to 
provide any further information than this. In particular it didnt need to let Ms K know that the 
fund value had changed when she submitted her transfer request.  I dont think Utmost 
needed to provide any more information than it did. So, Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint 
about the information, or lack of information, that Utmost provided. 
And Utmost acted in a timely manner when it received Ms Ks transfer instruction. The 
instruction was received on 18 March 2020 and the transfer was fully completed on the 
25 March 2020. This is a reasonable time for it to have been processed. Ive seen no 
evidence that the transfer value was incorrect, and Im not persuaded that Utmost 
maladministered this request. 
Lastly, Ms K has said that this transfer should have been made in specie. That is the 
investments could be transferred on a like for like basis between the policies. Utmost says 
that it doesnt offer this, and again it doesnt have to. And, as far as I can see, the pension 
plan Ms K transferred into also only accepts transfers on a cash basis. So, I dont think this 
was possible with this transaction. 
Given all of the above, and having thought about everything, I dont think that Utmost has 
done anything wrong here. My final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman