DRN-3160892
The complaint
Mr H complains Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited trading as Go Skippy 
Insurance (Go Skippy) gave him motor insurance when they shouldnt have.
A representative is supporting Mr H in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ill just refer 
to him in this decision.
What happened
Mr H had a policy with Go Skippy which renewed on 4 October 2020. Mr H chose to pay 
monthly and financed his payments with a loan through a credit provider. Ill call this 
company C.
Mr H says Go Skippy and C shouldnt have allowed him to have new motor insurance, as 
hed previously taken out insurance through Go Skippy, and couldnt make those payments 
 ultimately defaulting with them. So, he complained.
Go Skippy said they could see this was Mr Hs second policy with them. They said after 
taking out the policy on 4 October 2020 he called two days later to change the car  which 
generated an additional premium of £23.24 plus a £50 administration fee. Go Skippy said on 
11 November 2020 Mr Hs payment to C hadnt been made  and that payment must be 
made by 17 November otherwise the policy would be cancelled. On 17 November, Mr H told 
Go Skippy hed made the payment on 27 November, which Go Skippy accepted.
On 30 November, with no payment made, Go Skippy contacted Mr H again, and asked him 
to get in touch. On 10 December, not having heard anything, they told him his policy would 
be cancelled on 16 December if they didnt hear from him. On 11 December, he called and 
said hed make payment on 1 January 2021. On 6, 15, 21 and 27 January they contacted 
Mr H again. On both 21 and 27 January, as well as 2 February, Mr H asked for extensions. 
Go Skippy granted one final extension to 16 February but said this would be the last one.
On 16 February 2021, Mr Hs policy was cancelled. Go Skippy said this generated a debt of 
£930.73. Go Skippy said theyd offered debt plans where Mr H could repay this amount in 
instalments. They said they understood Mr H was disappointed theyd renewed the policy 
when he couldnt afford it  but they werent aware of any financial difficulties he was 
experiencing. They said he agreed to the renewal, and set up the payment plan, so it was 
safe for them to assume Mr H could afford the repayments. They also explained C carries 
out the full credit check, not them, so they didnt assess his ability to repay the loan for the 
motor policy nor were they required to.
Mr H said he wasnt happy the policy terms say Go Skippy will cancel the policy after seven 
days of no payment, and then it ran for around four months without it being cancelled.
One of our Investigators looked into things, and she found Go Skippy hadnt acted unfairly. 
She explained theyre not responsible for assessing the affordability of the credit agreement 
Mr H took out. She also felt theyd acted fairly when Mr H fell into arrears and offered 
support.
Mr H didnt accept this. He said he found it ridiculous as Go Skippy were aware of his 
financial difficulties, and still offered the policy. Because of that, the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Go Skippy accepting the renewal of the policy
I can understand Mr Hs frustration. From his perspective hes taken out insurance with 
Go Skippy and has ended up in debt with them a second time due to not being able to afford 
the premiums. So, he doesnt think they should have given him this insurance and then he 
wouldnt be in this debt.
But, as our Investigator explained, Go Skippy arent required to have assessed Mr Hs 
affordability when he took out insurance  this was Cs responsibility. 
Although Go Skippy have said otherwise in their response to Mr Hs complaint, they did 
know hed previously experienced financial difficulties. There was an outstanding debt from 
the previous policy. Even taking that into account, I cant require Go Skippy to have 
assessed Mr Hs ability to repay his premiums when they simply have no requirements to do 
so. Go Skippy offered the policy, but C provided the finance. There are rules around lending 
money to people, which do require an assessment of someones ability to repay that debt  
but Go Skippy didnt lend the money, C did.
So, I cant say Go Skippy have done anything wrong on this point.
Length of time it took for the policy to be cancelled
Ive also noted Mr Hs comments about what the policy terms say about a policy being 
cancelled due to non-payment of the premiums. The terms do suggest Mr Hs policy would 
be cancelled if no premiums are made. But I have to consider whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a complaint.
From what I can see, Mr H told Go Skippy a number of things when he got in touch asking 
for extensions:
He needed his car for work.
Hed not been paid due to having to self-isolate but would be paid by a certain date.
He was getting the money together to pay the premiums.
Ive looked at the timings of these contacts along with Go Skippys internal notes. I think its 
reasonable for me to say they were trying to treat Mr H fairly. Hed not made payments, but 
said he needed his car for work and would be getting back to them with those payments. So, 
by cancelling the policy that could have made things far more difficult for Mr H, based on 
what Go Skippy were being told. In addition, I cant ignore that cancelling someones policy 
can have a serious and long-lasting effect on the cost of future premiums. Insurers will 
almost always ask if someone has had a policy cancelled, and thatll often lead to higher 
premiums. They also didnt allow this to carry on for longer than they were comfortable. 
Although it lasted around four months, they did stop the extensions after around three 
months  and told Mr H what would happen if payments werent made by that final 
extension. And, they also offered Mr H payment plans to get matters resolved.Given the seriousness of cancelling someones policy, plus what Mr H was telling them, I 
think Go Skippy have treated Mr H fairly in taking the actions they have.
Summary
I cant hold Go Skippy responsible for the decision to lend Mr H the cost of the premiums, 
and I think Go Skippy acted fairly when Mr H didnt make any payments. So, overall, Ive 
found no grounds on which to ask Go Skippy to cancel the debt.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman