DRN-1102113
The complaint
Mr C complains that Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) delayed 
his compensation payment from a lender.
What happened
FTR represented Mr C in a complaint against a lender about a payday loan. The lender 
agreed to pay Mr C compensation. Mr C called FTR who said it would pass on Mr Cs bank 
account details so it could make the payment to Mr C. It told him he should expect to receive 
this in around 28 days.
A few weeks later Mr C called FTR because hed received a demand to pay its fees but he 
hadnt received the payment from the lender. FTR looked into this and found it had given the 
wrong bank details to the lender. It said it would pass the correct information to it.
Mr C raised a complaint with FTR. He said hed contacted the lender directly and had been 
told the payment could take up to another 30 days. He said he felt FTR should reduce their 
fee because the delay was causing him stress and hed had to cancel a holiday.
FTR initially told Mr C it aimed to resolve his complaint within 8 weeks. But it later said that it 
wasnt able to resolve it within this timeframe. So Mr C referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because FTRs error appeared 
to have delayed Mr C receiving the payment by just over two weeks. He recommended FTR 
pay £100 compensation to Mr C for the frustration its error caused.
FTR said it accepted our investigators view and was willing to pay £100 to Mr C. But Mr C 
disagreed with our investigators opinion. He didnt think £100 was enough to compensate 
him. He felt that FTR should reduce the fee hed paid it for handling his complaint with the 
lender from 36% to 10% because of his efforts to get things resolved. He was particularly 
unhappy that FTR hadnt given him an answer to his complaint within 8 weeks and hed had 
to refer his complaint to us. Our investigator told Mr C this wasnt something we could 
consider because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. 
Mr C asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct FTR to compensate him 
in line with our investigators recommendation. 
FTR has accepted it gave the wrong bank details to the lender. But having seen a copy of 
FTRs computer records, I think it took appropriate action to put things right once it was aware of its error. This included contacting the lender to let it know the correct bank details 
and moving its collection process back to give Mr C longer to pay his fee. 
Mr C says he had to cancel a holiday because of the delay in receiving the payment. But I 
dont think it would be fair to hold FTR responsible for this. It had told Mr C he should expect 
the payment in roughly 28 days from when hed given his bank details. But it didnt give any 
guarantees that Mr C would definitely have this money in this time frame. It wouldnt have 
been able to, given the money was coming from a third party. 
Mr C is unhappy that FTR didnt answer his complaint within 8 weeks and referred him to our 
service. But I can only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria set out in our case-
handling rules which I must apply. These can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook (available online).
DISP 2 says we can only look into complaints about certain activities, for example, those 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Complaint handling isnt an activity that we 
have the power to look at, so Im unable to consider this part of Mr Cs complaint against 
FTR.
Putting things right
I appreciate Mr C felt frustrated that his payment was delayed and he also felt he needed to 
contact the lender directly to sort this out. But I think the £100 our investigator recommended 
is a fair amount to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused by FTR logging 
incorrect bank details.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Quickly Finance Limited 
to pay him £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2019.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman