DRN-3658100
The complaint
Mr L complains Nationwide Building Society (NBS) has not fairly dealt with a claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr L is represented in his 
complaint by a Mr M.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ls complaint on 4 August 2022, in which I described 
the events leading up the provisional decision as follows:
Mr L engaged a firm of solicitors I will call S in December 2018 in connection with a 
timeshare he had purchased in Spain in 2006 which he believed had been mis-sold to 
him, and in relation to which he was being pursued for alleged management fee arrears. 
It appears Mr M was also involved in the initial conversations with S. S agreed to act on 
a fixed fee basis unless litigation was necessary.
S was paid a fee in advance of £4,025 for its services, which included an administration 
fee. Mr Ls position is that S agreed it would serve a notice of termination on the 
timeshare company in order to release Mr L from the timeshare. S would then pursue a 
compensation claim against the timeshare company on a no-win, no-fee basis.
I understand Mr L became concerned about a lack of progress and communication 
from S as the months went by. Mr M then intervened. He made an official complaint to 
S on Mr Ls behalf in June 2019. He raised a number of concerns which I think its 
reasonable to summarise as follows:
S was not following Mr Ls instructions. Specifically, it hadnt served a notice 
of termination on the timeshare company. Instead, it had been negotiating 
with the company and passing on offers of settlement. Mr M said Mr Ls 
timeshare contract
was illegal and so a notice of termination should have been served. Mr L had 
also been told he wouldnt need to pay anything further, which was 
inconsistent with him having to pay maintenance fee debts which were 
included in the offers.
Ss paperwork was unsatisfactory.
Mr L hadnt heard anything from S in five months, apart from a short email 
from a paralegal.
Mr M suggested that S either serve a notice of termination on the timeshare company 
and then proceed with a no-win no-fee claim, as had been initially agreed, or end the 
contract and give Mr L all his money back. Mr M noted that Mr L was very unwell and 
this needed to be taken into account in any dealings with him.
Ms W, on behalf of S, responded to the complaint on 5 July 2019. She disagreed 
with the complaint. I could summarise her points as follows:
General updates had been provided regarding Mr Ls timeshare company 
monthly. Updates specific to Mr Ls case had been provided more frequently 
than Mr M had claimed.
S had undertaken preparatory work, taken a substantial witness statement from 
Mr L and had follow-up phone calls and correspondence with him. It wasnt fair 
to say that the only contact had been a single email.
She was aware of court rulings mentioned by Mr M but cautioned against 
believing everything that was published or said about these rulings. Getting 
out of the timeshare was not as simple as serving a notice of termination. The 
timeshare company may not agree with or accept that.
It thought negotiating with the timeshare company was appropriate at this 
stage as litigation was a last resort. It was in contact with the companys 
lawyers and would continue to try to negotiate.
Ms W expressed a hope that matters could continue to proceed and the 
relationship between S and Mr L repaired.
Mr M responded, disagreeing over key details and raising additional concerns. Ms W 
responded again later in July 2019 in a similar vein to her previous communication, 
noting that while she took the complaints seriously her view was that they were getting 
in the way of releasing Mr L from the timeshare.
In August 2019, through Mr M, Mr L made a claim with NBS under section 75 of the 
CCA in respect of poor service and misrepresentation by S. NBS rejected the claim in 
October 2019, prompting a follow-up complaint from Mr M or Mr Ls behalf in which he 
provided what he considered to be further evidence of Ss misrepresentation. NBS 
confirmed its original decision later in November 2019, stating that Mr L could bring his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service if he disagreed.
It also turned out that NBS had destroyed some documents Mr M had sent to support 
Mr Ls claim. Mr M said these were originals and the fact theyd been destroyed could 
prejudice any future claim Mr L had against his timeshare company. NBS initially paid 
£200 compensation to Mr L for destroying the documents, but removed this from his 
account after he asked for it to be returned as he did not accept it.
Mr M then contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service on Mr Ls behalf. There were 
delays in us looking into the matter, and in the meantime Mr L made a complaint to the 
Legal Ombudsman (LeO) directly about S. He also, through Mr M, continued to 
complain to S, asking that they follow his instructions or return the fee hed paid.
In January 2022 one of our investigators issued findings on the case. She came 
to the following conclusions:
S had breached its contract with Mr L. It had begun acting for him in December 
2018 but it didnt seem to have contacted him since July 2019, and it was now 
early 2022. Our investigator had been unable to get hold of anyone at S to find 
out what was going on. And although the contract between Mr L and S said it 
could take 12 months or more for the timeshare release to be achieved, due to 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 a term was treated as included in the contract 
that the service would be performed within a reasonable time. Our investigator did not believe more than three years was a reasonable time and so the contract 
had been breached.
The effect of section 75 of the CCA was that Mr L could hold NBS liable for Ss 
breach of contract. She considered it would be fair for a full refund of Ss fees 
to be provided by NBS as compensation for the breach of contract, along with 
associated fees, interest and charges.
NBSs offer of £200 compensation for losing Mr Ls documents was reasonable.
Mr M indicated that he was relieved to read the investigators findings. NBS said it 
wasnt in a position to respond as it was aware of the parallel, ongoing investigation by 
the LeO into the complaint about S. It said it was trying to speak to S about the case 
before responding to our investigator. Due to the lack of a response from NBS, 
preparations were made for Mr Ls case to be referred to one of our ombudsmen to 
make a final decision. It has now been passed to me to decide.
Further developments
Between Mr Ls case being prepared for a decision and it reaching my desk, the LeO 
released its initial findings into the complaint about S, which Mr M sent us a copy of. It 
was apparent the LeO may have had access to more evidence than this service, and 
further enquiries were made which resulted in us being sent a 124 page document 
which contained extensive communications records between S, Mr L, Mr M and the 
timeshare company and its agents.
We identified within this document that it seemed S had emailed Mr L in May 2020 
saying it had decided it could no longer act for him in light of the continued concerns 
expressed by him and Mr M, and offering him a full refund of fees paid. We were able to 
reach someone at S to query this email. S said that the offer had been made two years 
ago and no longer stood.
NBS also subsequently contacted us to say theyd heard from S, which had informed 
them they had obtained another offer from the timeshare company for Mr L, but that 
they (S) were not happy to deal with Mr M.
Since I began my review of the case there has been a provisional and subsequently a 
final decision from the LeO upholding part of Mr Ls complaint against S about poor 
service. The LeO looked at three issues: the failure to issue a notice of termination or 
advise on this; a failure to keep Mr L updated or communicate with him; and a failure 
to provide documents and evidence of work Mr L had requested.
The LeO upheld Mr Ls complaint on the latter two points and concluded S should pay Mr 
L £250 compensation in respect of the unreasonable level of service it had provided. Mr 
M, on Mr Ls behalf, has expressed disagreement with the LeOs decision.
I then went on to explain my findings and the provisional decision I had reached, in the 
following words:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA gives consumers a degree of protection when they pay for 
goods or services using a credit card, so long as certain criteria are met. If the criteria are met then the consumer can hold their credit card provider liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation on the part of the supplier of the goods or services.
It's not disputed that the technical criteria for Mr L to be able to make a claim against 
NBS under section 75 are in place, so on this point Ill say only that it appears to me 
that the technical criteria have indeed been met. I will focus my provisional decision on 
the question of whether there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract by S.
The overlap with the LeO case
Before I go on to consider the matter of the section 75 claim, I need to comment on 
the implications of the LeO having already made a final decision about the service 
provided by
S. Our rules allow us to choose not to consider a complaint (known as 
dismissing the complaint) in a number of different scenarios. These scenarios 
include where:
(2) the subject matter of the complaint has been dealt with, or is being dealt with, 
by a comparable ADR entity;
The underlying subject matter of Mr Ls complaint relates to his dissatisfaction with 
the services he paid S for. The LeO, which is a comparable ADR entity, has dealt 
with a complaint about S. But its important to point out that the LeO has not looked 
at quite the same complaint or from the same angle.
The LeOs ombudsman was clear that he was considering a complaint against S, about 
whether it had provided Mr L with unreasonable service. The complaint I am being 
asked to decide is against NBS, about whether NBS treated Mr L fairly in turning down 
his section 75 claim. In order to do that, I will necessarily need to consider what 
transpired between him and S, and whether S breached its contract with him, or 
misrepresented something to him.
Im not, however, considering the level of customer service S provided to Mr L.
So I think the complaints, although involving the same supplier, are different. I 
therefore dont intend to dismiss Mr Ls complaint about NBS in light of the LeOs 
decision on his complaint against S.
The alleged deficiencies in Mr Ls timeshare contract
Before continuing I think it would also be helpful to make some observations about 
the arguments raised in relation to the timeshare contract itself, as its clear that Mr M 
believes these to be vitally important to the case and he has referred to them in much 
of his correspondence.
Mr M has focused throughout his communications with S, this service and the LeO, on 
certain aspects of Mr Ls contract with his timeshare company which he says are illegal 
due to Spanish law and historic decisions in the Spanish courts. Mr Ms position is that 
Mr L
could, in essence, get out of his timeshare easily by serving the notice of 
termination referred to earlier in this decision. Not wanting to engage in expensive 
litigation which he believes they would no doubt lose, Mr M says he is sure the 
timeshare company would concede on receiving such a notice.
My view is that it may not be as simple as that. The House of Commons Library published a briefing paper on timeshare ownership earlier in 2022 which analyses 
various problems UK timeshare owners have had, and which refers to issues of the 
kind Mr M has highlighted. Given the official nature of its publication, I would consider 
this briefing paper to be a reputable source of information. It refers to perpetuity 
clauses, floating weeks and other things Mr M has mentioned, but doesnt suggest that 
the presence of these features in a timeshare contract means that one could simply 
send a notice of termination to a timeshare company and be immediately released 
from ones obligations.
I think, on the contrary, the paper suggests things are more complicated, with additional 
considerations such as which laws apply to a given contract, and the possibility that 
previous court judgments have turned on the individual facts and may not be applicable 
in all cases.
In any case, my decision doesnt turn on the merits of Mr Ms arguments relating 
to the timeshare contract, so I dont need to make further findings on this point.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which a person relies on, causing 
them to act in a way which is to their disadvantage (in this case, entering a contract).
Mr M has suggested S misrepresented what it would do for Mr L in a verbal 
conversation with him prior to entering the contract. Specifically, Mr M says he recalls 
Ss employee indicating that a notice of termination would be served on the timeshare 
company, and that the timeshare company would probably concede on being notified of 
allegedly illegal clauses in its contract with Mr L.
Mr M says he was then in hospital and, while he was there, S sent documents to Mr L to 
sign which didnt accurately reflect the conversation which had been had. Mr M said Mr 
L had signed it after multiple emails from S asking that he do so, and has suggested the 
lengthy and obscure nature of the documents means Mr L would not have appreciated 
that it didnt reflect his instructions.
It is rarely straightforward to comment on what may have been said in a verbal 
conversation of which it appears there is no independent record. But I think its 
important that I highlight that Mr M has not, in my view, been very specific about what 
exactly a notice of termination is, the form it would take, and what it would contain, 
other than a list of allegedly illegal clauses in the timeshare contract. I think this lack of 
clarity over the form and substance of a notice of termination is important, as it could 
easily lead to misunderstandings.
We have no direct evidence from Mr L regarding the content of the conversation with 
S. In the few emails Ive seen from Mr L, he hasnt referred to a notice of termination. 
The client care documents from S, which Mr L signed, do not refer to a notice of 
termination. The only evidence that S told Mr L it would be issuing this to the 
timeshare company is Mr Ms recollection.
I note that in one of the first emails from S to the timeshare companys solicitors on 1 April 
2019, S did in fact point out the various allegedly illegal features of the contract, and made 
an argument that the company should refund him the payments hed made towards the 
timeshare and terminate the contract. So in this sense they did put the arguments across 
which it is said Mr L had expected. It appears the timeshare company did not accept these 
arguments.Returning to the question of misrepresentation, I think what most likely happened is that 
Mr L and Ss employee had a different understanding of what specifically was being 
requested of S. And S did send an email to the timeshare company which, in my view, 
covered the kind of points it appeared Mr L and Mr M expected a notice of termination to 
cover. S didnt press the argument further with the timeshare company, but I think its 
difficult to conclude S falsely represented the actions it would take regarding 
termination.
Finally, regarding the comment Mr M recalls Ss employee making, that the 
timeshare company would probably concede after receiving a notice of termination, 
this appears to have been a statement of opinion rather than a statement of fact. 
Assuming the statement was made, to be able to conclude it was a 
misrepresentation there would need to be evidence that the employee did not 
actually hold the opinion she expressed. Ive not seen evidence which would support 
this.
Breach of contract
A breach of contract occurs when one party breaks the express terms of contract, or 
breaks terms treated as included in the contract by the operation of law.
Mr Ls contract with S was a contract for services and would be covered by the 
relevant parts of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). One of the effects of the 
CRA is to cause terms to be treated as included in a contract for services that:
a) The services will be carried out with reasonable care and skill
b) Where a timescale or deadline for the service is not fixed, the service will be 
carried out within a reasonable time.
What constitutes reasonable care and skill is not defined in the CRA, but it has 
generally been held to mean the standard of care and skill which would be expected 
of a competent practitioner of the service in question. What constitutes a reasonable 
time is a question of fact.
It is also worth me mentioning that by virtue of section 50 of the CRA, in a contract for 
services anything that is said or written to a consumer by a trader about either the 
trader themselves, or the service, is treated as being included in the contract if the 
consumer took the information into account when deciding to enter the contract.
When our investigator issued her findings recommending that Mr Ls case was upheld, 
she had access to less information than is available to this service now. From her 
perspective, there was no evidence that S had really done anything after receiving Mr 
Ls payment. She noted that the client care documents had said the process of 
releasing Mr L from the timeshare could take 12 months or longer. It had been more 
than three years however, so in the absence of evidence of work completed by S, she 
considered it had not performed the services contracted for within a reasonable time. I 
think this was the correct conclusion for our investigator to have reached based on the 
information available to her. But there have been a number of developments since then.
The 124 page document I referred to earlier shows S took a witness statement from Mr L 
in
March 2019 and sent him a copy. It sent the following communications to the 
timeshare company and its agents:A letter in January 2019 notifying the company that it was acting for Mr L.
Some acknowledgement emails between February and March 2019.
An email in April 2019, referred to above, in which it argued for termination 
of the timeshare agreement and a refund of monies paid towards it.
An email in December 2019 in which it asked a debt recovery firm to stop 
contacting Mr L.
A series of emails in November and December 2021 to the timeshare 
company discussing a potential offer.
As the LeO noted, from the middle of 2020 until at least December 2021, S did not 
contact Mr L or Mr M. It appears from the evidence that S also failed to reply to emails 
from the timeshare companys solicitors asking for updates on Mr Ls case, as well as 
emails from Mr
M. I note this cessation of activity roughly coincided with the email from S to Mr L saying 
that it had decided it could no longer act for him.
In almost three years it appears S sent only a handful of communications to the 
timeshare company. Having read the emails sent by S, I would say that perhaps two 
of them represented attempts to move Mr Ls case forward or put arguments to the 
timeshare company (the April 2019 email and an email in November 2021). S 
suggested there was other work going on in the background, but its not provided 
evidence of this.
Returning to the terms of the contract (along with any implied terms), Mr Ls agreement 
with S said the following about the time things would take:
As far as timescales are concerned it is difficult at this stage to provide a realistic 
estimate. We will keep you informed of progress throughout, explaining the reasons for 
any delays and advise you if any additional unforeseen work becomes necessary.
However, we would make it very clear to you that it is not uncommon due to the nature 
of the work involved for these matters to take up to 12 months to achieve 
relinquishment. This may be longer if matters are complex, the attitude of the timeshare 
company is unhelpful or require legal proceedings to settle them.
I think a reasonable person would interpret this part of the contract as meaning that it 
could take up to 12 months for S to achieve the object of the contract 
(relinquishment/release) but that it could be longer if:
Matters were complex.
The attitude of the timeshare company was unhelpful.
Legal proceedings were required.
This section of the contract was in a larger font, so it seems it was something S thought 
was important to bring to Mr Ls attention. I think Mr L would have taken into account 
the likely timescales when deciding whether to sign the contract. So, bearing in mind 
the effect of section 50 of the CRA, if the object of the contract was not achieved within 
12 months of December 2018 and none of the points above applied, then my view is that S would be in breach of its contract with Mr L. If some or all of the points applied I 
will have to consider instead whether Ss services had been performed in a reasonable 
time.
Ive not seen evidence that legal proceedings were required or being contemplated by 
S, and while complexity is to some extent a subjective issue, the matter doesnt seem 
to have been especially complicated. The attitude of the timeshare company was not 
unhelpful: it made a couple of offers to reduce some of Mr Ls maintenance fee debts 
in response to the April 2019 email, and at the end of 2021 it offered to reduce these 
debts significantly. It was certainly willing to talk to S, and as I noted earlier it was 
proactive in contacting S to try to move matters forward.
I think the reason matters took much longer than 12 months in Mr Ls case (and why 
they have still not concluded) is because of the issues Ive already referred to in this 
decision: S just didnt do much to progress Mr Ls case for very long periods of time. I 
acknowledge the fact that Mr L didnt accept the initial offer from the timeshare 
company, which could have resulted in him being released from the timeshare in mid-
2019. However, I cannot see in the contract with S that he was obliged to accept any 
offer which was made. Indeed, when notifying him of the offer, S observed: I would 
imagine you will not find the terms particularly attractive, but I must seek your 
instructions.
In light of the above I conclude S had breached its contract with Mr L in either 
December 2019 or January 2020 by failing to secure his release from his timeshare 
within 12 months of December 2018.
I also considered the matter of NBS destroying Mr Ls original documents, concluding:
I think the £200 compensation offered by NBS for this is a fair amount to reflect the 
distress and annoyance this would have caused Mr L. Mr M has said hes worried that 
the lack of originals could cause problems for Mr L in the future, but I dont think it would 
be appropriate for me to award compensation for something which may not happen.
Finally, I went on to determine, provisionally, what appropriate redress would look like had 
NBS fairly honoured Mr Ls section 75 claim:
Under the CRA Mr L would be entitled to a price reduction of an appropriate 
amount as a result of Ss breach. Further guidance on what this means is given by 
explanatory notes which accompany the CRA:
A reduction in price of an appropriate amount will normally mean that the price is 
reduced by the difference in value between the service the consumer paid for and the 
value of the service as provided. In practice, this will mean that the reduction in price 
from the full amount takes into account the benefit which the consumer has derived from 
the service. Depending on the circumstances, the reduction in price could mean a full 
refund. This could be, for example, where the consumer has derived no benefit from the 
service and the consumer would have to employ another trader to repeat the service 
from scratch to complete the work.
S did carry out some work for Mr L, but what benefit did he derive from the service S 
provided? By the time the contract had been breached around December 2019 or 
January 2020, Mr L had had his witness statement taken. He had also received an 
offer from the timeshare company to allow him out of the timeshare if he paid 5,676 
euros, which was a significant reduction on what the timeshare company said he owed before that point. Mr Ls position is that he was unwilling to pay anything to the 
timeshare company as he did not consider himself liable for the fees, and offers to 
reduce his alleged debts were not what he had been looking for S to obtain for him. But 
I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude he has derived no benefit at all from Ss 
involvement.
Calculating a price reduction is an exercise which is not without difficulty, especially in 
scenarios like this where the cost of services has not been broken down. I note the 
courts have discouraged in any event making too fine-toothed an assessment of 
difference in value in contracts for services. Taking a broad view that the benefit Mr L 
has derived from the contract up to the point of it being breached has been quite 
limited, and the lack of evidence of much activity on Ss part, I think an appropriate 
price reduction would be 80% of Ss fixed fee, which equates to a partial refund of 
£3,220. Due to its joint liability under section 75 of the CCA, my view is that Mr L would 
be able to claim this same amount from NBS.
There is a difficulty here in that I understand S are still claiming to act for Mr L, albeit 
its clear their relationship has broken down and the May 2020 email stated they had 
decided they could no longer act for him. Nevertheless, Im mindful Mr L could benefit 
from the contract with S if they continue to act for him. To account for this possibility I 
intend to make it a condition of any final decision that NBS does not need to pay the 
amount of £3,220 until it receives evidence that S are no longer acting for Mr L.
I summarised my intended directions to NBS as follows:
Pay Mr L £3,220, adding 8% simple interest per year* to this amount 
calculated from 1 January 2020 (12 months after the date the cooling off period 
expired on the contract with S) to the date the payment is made. NBS does not 
need to pay this amount until it receives confirmation that S are no longer acting 
for Mr L.
Pay Mr L £200 compensation, as it has already agreed to do, assuming this 
amount remains unpaid.
*If Nationwide Building Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much tax its taken off. It 
should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Finally, I invited all parties to let me have any new evidence, arguments or comments they 
wanted me to consider, by 18 August 2022. That date has now passed and so the case has 
been returned to me to consider again.
The responses to the provisional decision
Mr L accepted the final decision. He also provided evidence that hed written to S, 
terminating their agreement. NBS said it would also accept the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties to the complaint accept my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings and conclusions I reached in it, as Ive reproduced above. I also see 
no reason, having reviewed the file again, to change my provisional findings.
It follows that I adopt the contents of my provisional decision as part of this final decision and 
uphold Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Nationwide Building 
Society to take the following actions:
Pay Mr L £3,220, adding 8% simple interest per year* to this amount 
calculated from 1 January 2020 (12 months after the date the cooling off period 
expired on the contract with S) to the date the payment is made. NBS does not 
need to pay this amount until it receives confirmation that S are no longer acting 
for Mr L.
Pay Mr L £200 compensation, as it has already agreed to do, assuming this 
amount remains unpaid.
I believe Mr L has sent a copy of the confirmation that he has ended his agreement with 
S to NBS. However, if NBS does not have a copy, our investigator will be able to provide 
this.
*If Nationwide Building Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much tax its taken off. It 
should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman