DRN-3685908
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited gave him the
wrong information when he asked to insure his dog on a pet policy in his name following his
separation from his partner. His dog was already insured with Red Sands in his ex-partners
name.
References to Red Sands includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr Ls dog was originally insured under a lifetime policy in his ex-partners name with the
monthly premium being paid out of Mr Ls account. Sadly, they separated, and Mr L moved
address and the dog came with him.
Mr L said he called Red Sands in December 2020 to sort out the policy. And following that
call, then took out a policy which was time limited for any illness for merely 12 months. Mr L
said this was what the adviser told him to do.
Mr Ls dog needed treatment of BOAS and Red Sands said it was pre-existing and therefore
Mr Ls claim was excluded. Subsequently, Red Sands reconsidered the matter and paid Mr
Ls claim given the dog had been insured with them before, but it limited any ongoing claims
to the benefit limitation in Mr Ls policy of 12 months.
Mr L was very unhappy about this as he felt the advice that he had been given by the Red
Sands adviser in December was wrong and it took advantage of this to Mr Ls detriment.
So, he complained to both Red Sands and its agent selling him the new policy. These
complaints were originally dealt with separately but given the particular issues involved, all
Mr Ls complaints points are now being dealt with in this decision. We asked Red Sands for
any comment on this, but it didnt reply. So, if Red Sands has any difficulties with this, I
consider it can sort itself out with its agents on the matter and that it doesnt concern Mr L.
Red Sands said it couldnt find any note of Mr Ls call in December 2020 or indeed any call
recording so there it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr L disagreed and brought his
complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view as there was no call recording or note of the call, it was Mr
Ls choice to buy whatever level of cover he chose since these policies are sold on an
unadvised basis. Consequently, he didnt recommend Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.
Which also meant his complaint about the start date of his dogs BOAS condition wasnt
upheld either.
Mr L didnt agree so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 August 2022 and I said the following: 
Mr Ls testimony about phoning Red Sands in December 2020 has been consistent
throughout, which I find persuasive. It shows me he hasnt tried to embellish or 
enhance anything all the way through. And it also shows the requisite degree of 
consistency to persuade me it most likely occurred, as he said.
He says he called either on 27 or 28 December 2020 and he has given the mobile 
phone number he thought he would have used. Plus, he said he could have phoned 
in from his work instead but that would have come up as a private number.
Red Sands have told us that it cant find any call recording from the mobile number 
Mr L said he had at that time. But far more crucially it said that it wouldnt be able to 
obtain any call recordings from such private numbers if indeed Mr L phoned in from 
his work instead of his mobile. Therefore, Im not convinced that because there was 
no call recording that that meant it didnt happen as Mr L said, given the possibility of 
this private number and more so the consistency of his testimony. Clearly also Red 
Sands were also as persuaded by Mr Ls testimony and intentions as it agreed to 
cover a claim which was technically pre-existing.
Further in Mr Ls circumstances where he knew his dog was insured with Red Sands
because the payment of the premium was coming out of his bank account, I consider 
it very rational indeed that he would phone up Red Sands once separated from his 
partner to try and continue the cover.
I dont however consider Red Sands did anything wrong in not being able to discuss 
his ex-partners policy as Mr L told us, with him given the stringent data protection 
laws that exist. Red Sands also werent at all responsible for the fact Mr L and his 
partner had separated without sorting out their dogs insurance cover or that they 
werent on speaking terms at that time either.
Mr L says when he called Red Sands in December 2020, he wanted to buy the same 
type of cover which his dog had before. And he says the adviser said it was the time 
limited one.
What Mr L hasnt appreciated that with any new pet policy, everything starts again. 
That normally means anything that was in the vet history before the new policys start 
date will be considered a pre-existing condition and tends consequently to be 
excluded. You cant continue the cover unless you retain the original policy. So, in 
real terms there has been no merging of policies as Mr L keeps thinking. What 
should have happened was that Mr Ls ex-partner should have transferred the policy 
into his name, Mr L kept paying the premium as he had been doing all along anyway 
and his dog would have retained the lifetime cover that he had.
Instead Mr L said he was told the previous cover his dog had was the time limited 
policy so on that basis he bought another time limited cover policy. And it was only 
then when he needed to claim, that all these issues came to a head. I do consider its 
was more than probable Mr L called Red Sands in December 2020 as he claimed 
and I do consider whatever transpired induced Mr L to think buying the time limited 
policy was the correct thing to do. Red Sands recognised this as it didnt impose its 
pre-existing condition exclusion however instead limited cover to the cover to the new 
policy Mr L had brought.
Pet policies are sold on whats called an unadvised basis, so there is no duty for Red 
Sands or any other seller of pet policies to advise its customers on what policy might 
be best for them, as thats for the customer to decide themselves on the basis of the 
details of the choices of cover on offer.However here Mr Ls situation is far more unusual. His dog was insured on a lifetime 
policy which Mr L was paying for himself too, not his ex-partner, although she was 
the policyholder. And given the circumstances of their separation, which lead them to 
be not talking to one another, Mr L has landed in a situation where his dog doesnt 
have the cover, he requires, which he did have previously.
I consider it very significant indeed that the premium for this policy was in fact being 
paid for by Mr L, not his ex-partner too. Therefore, I consider the fairest thing to do 
now, is to consider what would have happened if Mr L and his ex-partner, had known 
all this. I consider she would have given her consent at the time for the policy to be 
put in Mr Ls sole name. This is because she gave her consent for the release of her 
policy file to us. Further and more importantly on the call recordings Red Sands 
disclosed from Mr Ls ex-partners policy, it was clear she wanted the policy to 
continue after they separated. So, I consider it was wholly likely that Mr Ls ex-
partner would have transferred the policy into Mr Ls name, and he could then simply 
continue paying for the policy as he had been doing all along.
On that basis, I consider the original policy should now be reinstated, the premium Mr 
L has paid on his new policy applied to the old policy and any over payment should 
be refunded back to Mr L. In the far more likely event, that there has been an 
underpayment of premium, then Mr L should be invited to repay this underpayment 
sensibly whilst paying the current premium for the lifetime policy.
That in turn means there is no issue of any pre-existing condition nor indeed the date 
they may have started on and Mr Ls claims for BOAS should be dealt within the 
remaining terms and conditions of the original lifetime policy and annual policy 
monetary limits.
Mr L agreed with my provisional decision. Red Sands didnt respond to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view as expressed above in my provisional decision to 
uphold this complaint. More so on the basis Red Sands made no further representations to 
it. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Reinstate the previous lifetime policy and apply the premium paid on the time limited 
policy to the lifetime policy.
In the event of any overpayment of premium by Mr L refund Mr L with interest of 8% 
simple year from the date he brought the time limited policy to date it refunds him. If 
income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided to Mr L for HMRC purposes.In the more likely event of an underpayment of premium, arrange and agree with Mr 
L a repayment plan to ensure he can pay both the lifetime premium on the reinstated 
policy plus the repayments.
Deal with any claims for BOAS or indeed anything else under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the lifetime policy and subject to the annual policy monetary policy 
limits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman