DRN-2445139
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they werent informed that their ISAs with A J Bell Management 
Limited trading as AJ Bell Youinvest werent flexible. As a result, they were unable to 
reinvest money theyd withdrawn.
What happened
In late 2019 Mr C and his wife, Mrs C, each made a large withdrawal from their respective 
ISAs, which theyd held with A J Bell since 2013. Several months later they attempted to 
reinvest the money but found they were unable to. Upon querying this they were told that it 
wasnt possible to pay in more to the ISAs than the annual subscription limit. 
Mr C was surprised by this because hed understood the ISAs to be flexible, in line with a 
rule change introduced in 2016, so that any withdrawals could be reinvested, without being 
subject to the usual annual ISA limit. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to A J Bell that they hadnt been informed that the flexibility 
feature hadnt been applied to their ISAs. But A J Bell didnt uphold the complaint. It 
explained that it had never offered a flexible ISA, and hadnt indicated that it would ever be 
doing so. It felt it was reasonable that it hadnt contacted customers to alert them to the fact 
that they werent going to offer the product. And, further, its FAQs made clear that its ISA 
product wasnt flexible. 
The complaint was referred to this service where our investigator also concluded that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said, in brief: 
When the rules changed in 2016 to allow providers to offer flexible ISAs, A J Bell had 
done nothing to suggest it was changing the terms of its existing ISA product, or 
introducing a new flexible product.
The 2016 rule change wasnt something that applied to all ISAs, like the introduction 
of additional permitted subscriptions in 2014.
She didnt agree that A J Bell shouldve actively communicated that it wasnt going to 
offer a flexible ISA. A business wouldnt generally be expected to tell customers 
about something it wasnt going to offer or a change it wasnt making. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators view. They said, in brief:
It wasnt fair to expect customers to be constantly checking the terms. If there was a 
change such as an increase in fees, that would have to be communicated. 
Theyd been disadvantaged by A J Bell choosing not to incorporate the change into 
its ISA product. 
It shouldve at least provided a warning before the withdrawals were made.
It shouldve notified customers that it wasnt introducing flexibility, so they couldve 
found an alternative provider who did.
A J Bell need to take responsibility for communicating material changes to contracts.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
When flexible ISAs were introduced in 2016 there was no requirement that financial 
providers had to offer such a product or make changes to their existing products. A J Bell 
took the decision not to offer the product and that was something it was entitled to do. 
The crux of the complaint is really that A J Bell failed to make clear that it had taken that 
decision. But generally speaking, I dont think its reasonable to expect a business to 
highlight to its customers that it is not going to be offering a particular product or service. 
There was no change to its terms or changes to the way in which the ISA operated. When 
the government gave the industry the opportunity to offer flexibility to customers it wasnt a 
rule change like an increase in the annual allowance or, as the investigator noted, the 
introduction of additional permitted subscriptions  changes that applied to all ISAs. Rather it 
was more a relaxing of the rules to allow providers to offer flexibility if they wished to.
To uphold the complaint, Id need to be satisfied that A J Bell did something wrong, such as 
actively misinforming Mr and Mrs C that they would be able to reinvest their withdrawn 
money. But thats not the case. I accept that A J Bell could have told account holders in 2016 
that they werent going to introduce a flexible ISA or could have had an alert of some sort 
appear when a withdrawal was made. But these were not actions that A J Bell should have 
done  there was no requirement for it to do either. 
Unfortunately, it appears that Mr and Mrs C simply acted on an assumption about how their 
ISAs worked. And while I can see why they mightve done so, the assumption was incorrect 
and I dont think that was the fault of A J Bell.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman