DRN-3436182
The complaint
Miss L complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) wont cover the full hourly 
rate of her preferred solicitor under her legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
What happened
Miss L has a LEI policy which provides cover for the cost of pursuing or defending legal 
action for insurable events under the policy terms. The policy is underwritten by Great Lakes. 
For ease any reference to Great Lakes includes the actions of its agents.
Miss L is currently taking legal action against a contractor for substandard building 
work. When she initially raised a claim with Great Lakes, it was allocated to their 
panel solicitors who said the claim had no prospect of success. 
Miss L disagreed with this opinion and appointed her own solicitor, who said Miss L 
had a good claim against the contractor in a personal capacity.
Miss L referred her solicitors opinion to Great Lakes for consideration who referred 
the claim back to their panel solicitors. The panel solicitors said there would be 
limited prospect of success due to the complex nature of the complaint. Instead they 
sent a letter of claim to the defendant.
Following no response to the letter of claim, Great Lakes then appointed a barrister 
to review the case as it was now in a position where court proceedings needed to be 
issued. The barrister agreed with Miss Ls solicitors opinion and that the claim had a 
60% prospect of success.
Great Lakes accepted the claim, and informed Miss L that she could either use their  
panel solicitors to act on her behalf; or they would pay up to £125 + VAT towards her 
chosen legal representatives costs, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Miss L didnt think was fair. She argued that the policy terms gave Great Lakes the 
ability to increase the hourly rate at their discretion. And, due to the complexity of this 
case, a higher-grade fee earner was required.
Miss L has found a Grade A fee earner who is experienced in these matters and who 
is willing to act for her at a cost of £250 per hour. 
Miss L argues that by capping the hourly rate at £125 + VAT per hour Great Lakes 
has fettered her ability to choose her own legal representation.
Our Investigator thought Miss L had demonstrated the legal matter is complex and 
that Great Lakes had restricted Miss Ls freedom to choose her own solicitor by 
capping the hourly rate at £125 + VAT. She recommended Great Lakes reconsider 
the hourly rate in line with the national rates for a Grade A fee earner.
Great Lakes did not respond to our investigators findings, so the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Miss L has previously raised several different complaint points regarding this 
claim, but that these do not to fall within our jurisdiction. So, my decision focuses solely on 
whether Great Lakes has acted fairly in capping the hourly rate at £125 + VAT per hour.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions. The relevant term of the policy states:
If you do select to appoint your own non-panel solicitor, this insurance will not cover 
expenses over and above the costs that our panel would charge in equivalent 
circumstances. For your information, this means that we would take into account the 
seriousness of the claim and the location and class of non-panel solicitor that you 
choose. The hourly rate is currently set at £125 + VAT. We reserve the right to 
assess each case on its merits, and may agree to pay additional fees if we feel the 
situation warrants it. This will remain entirely at our discretion.
Im satisfied the policy terms are clear and not ambiguous. But I also need to think about 
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
As legal proceedings have been started, its not in dispute that  as per the policy terms - 
Miss L is entitled to choose her own solicitor to represent her.
Great Lakes argue however, that the circumstances of Miss Ls claim do not warrant an 
increased hourly rate. They say theyd only increase the rate above £125 + VAT where a 
claim is so complex and/or of such high value that their panel solicitors are incapable of 
acting at £125 + VAT. They say Miss Ls claim is not of such a high value of complexity or 
value and that their panel solicitors have confirmed they are able to act at that price. 
Miss L has provided evidence of Great Lakes panel solicitors referring to her claim as being 
a complex matter and given the complicated nature of your case. Miss Ls own solicitor 
also confirms this is not a simple matter. I find this to be particularly persuasive. So, Im 
satisfied this matter is more complex and that a higher rate fee earner may be more 
appropriate in this case.
In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into consideration current case law in coming to my 
findings. The case, Brown-Quinn & Anor v Equity Syndicate Management Ltd & Anor [2012] 
EWCA Civ 1633) sets out that insurers can limit costs, provided this doesnt render the 
policyholders freedom of choice meaningless. 
Miss Ls preferred legal representative has been acting as a solicitor for over eight years  
making them a Grade A fee earner. I note that when Great Lakes returned this case to their 
panel solicitors the case was given to a solicitor who also had over eight years experience. I 
think its reasonable to assume this was because of the complex nature of the claim. 
The national guideline for hourly rates for Grade A fee earners is between £255 and £261 
per hour. Miss L has provided evidence from several solicitors - all of whom have stated they 
would only act on this matter for no less than £250 per hour. Based on this, I think it is 
unlikely Miss L would be able to find a non-panel solicitor with the relevant knowledge and 
experience to act for her at £125 + VAT. And, by capping the hourly rate at this amount, 
Great Lakes have effectively rendered Miss Ls freedom of choice meaningless, which I dont 
consider to be fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.Subject to Miss Ls claim continuing to meet the other terms and conditions of his policy the 
Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to pay her solicitors reasonable costs at a rate of £250 
an hour.
Great Lakes Insurance SE are liable for these costs from June 2021 - when it was accepted 
this claim had a reasonable prospect of success.
If Miss L has incurred any legal costs (subject to proof) since June 2021 these should be 
reimbursed to her with 8% simple interest included from the date the cost was incurred until 
the date it is reimbursed
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman