DRN-2866611
The complaint
Miss H and Mr M have complained about the way U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy following a burglary.
What happened
In September 2020 Miss H and Mr M made a claim to UKI following a burglary at their home. 
Mr Ms van was stolen as well as items from the home.
UKI settled part of their claim by paying a cash settlement for damaged flooring. UKI said it 
wouldnt meet a claim for a high value watch, tools in Mr Ms van and cash. UKI said there 
wasnt enough evidence to support the claim for the watch, the tools were for business use 
and so not covered, and as they didnt have personal possessions cover, the cash wasnt 
covered under the policy. 
While it was considering the remainder of the claim, Mr M told UKI in October 2020 that his 
van had been found and returned but the tools were missing. Mr M said the tools were 
personal tools as he hadnt worked as a tradesman for a few years. UKI asked him to 
provide a list of the stolen tools for it to consider.
Having done so, UKI reiterated that Mr Ms claim for tools wouldnt be considered. And it 
advised Mr M of the limit under the policy for tools stolen outside of the property.
In a call later in October 2020 Mr M said some tools had been stolen from the garage. The 
limit under the policy for items stolen from the garage was higher. This was information not 
previously provided as Mr M had said thieves hadnt gone into the garage. Due to the 
conflicting and contradictory information given to UKI, it declined the rest of their claim. 
Miss H and Mr M raised a complaint. But UKI didnt uphold it. So they asked us to look at 
their complaint. 
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably and in line with the policy. As Mr M had 
provided conflicting information, UKI was entitled to reject the claim. 
Miss H and Mr M didnt agree. Miss H says they remembered things that had been stolen 
weeks after the burglary. It isnt reasonable to expect them to remember everything correctly 
after such a traumatic experience. Miss H feels UKI were looking to avoid paying out on their 
claim from the outset. 
So she and Mr M want an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Miss H feels about the way their claim has been handled. It isnt in 
dispute that the experience of being burgled is very upsetting. Her view is that ultimately Mr 
Ms van was stolen with some tools in, so it shouldnt matter what tools were where at the 
time. 
My role is to look at the actions of the insurer in its handling of the claim: whether it acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms.
It isnt unusual for an insurer to set limits to the risks its prepared to accept depending on the 
location of items it insures. These are factors taken into account when insurers set a 
premium for a customer to pay. So it also isnt unusual for a location - like a secured garage 
-  to be regarded as being at lower risk of theft than a van. This is why the limit an insurer 
sets for stolen items differs depending on where the location is and what is stored. 
UKI can decline a claim if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In this 
case, UKI feel that, based on the evidence it has, its likely Mr M did breach its condition to 
not misrepresent information when making a claim under the policy. Ive checked the terms 
and conditions of the policy in relation to this, and they say:
If you make a buildings, contents, personal possessions or home emergency claim 
(but not a liability claim)
For any claim you must: . Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask 
for, including proof of ownership or value of the lost or damaged item and written 
estimates for repair. You will have to do this at your own expense.
If you don't follow our claim conditions, and this negatively affects our position: . we 
will reject your claim or be unable to deal with it, or . we will not pay your claim in full.
Given the above, Im satisfied that, if a policyholder has breached this condition, UKI is 
entitled to decline a claim made if it wants to. 
So Ive looked at what UKI has taken into account in order to decide if it acted reasonably on 
raising the above condition and taking the action it has.
Shortly after Miss H and Mr M made their claim, UKI instructed a company W to obtain 
video footage and a report relating to the incident. Forced entry had been gained to Miss H 
and Mr Ms home via a utility room toward the back of the property. 
UKI has provided recordings of the key calls. When Mr Ms van was returned to him, he told 
UKI that all of his work tools had been stolen. UKI said Mr M didnt have cover under the 
policy for work tools. Mr M said he no longer used the tools for work and they were his 
personal tools. UKI asked him to provide a list of the items. 
On 23 October 2020 Mr M told UKI that he usually kept his tools in the garage, but had been 
in the process of changing the garage door before the burglary, and so all of his tools were 
in the van. Mr M said if the tools had been kept in the garage, they wouldnt have been 
stolen as the thieves never went in the garage. 
Three days later UKI spoke with Mr M. Hed submitted a claim for over £6,000 for stolen 
tools but the limit for tool cover was £500 because they were taken outside of the property. 
Mr M then said that some tools were in the garage. The agent asked Mr M to clarify this as 
hed previously said all tools were in the van. Mr M said some tools were in the van. But 
some were in the garage. UKI asked Mr M to provide a list splitting out the tools that were in 
the van and in the garage.UKI reviewed the footage and report previously provided by W. No mention was made of 
entry to the garage until Mr M was advised of the limit for the value of his stolen tools outside 
of the property. The revised list provided by Mr M gave a value for the stolen tools from the 
garage of over £4,400. He said the rest of the tools were in his van. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable  putting all its concerns together  for UKI to decide 
the claims conditions of the policy had been breached. And, having reached that conclusion, 
I think it was entitled to decline the claim. I think Mr M provided conflicting and contradictory 
information within a short period of time  and in response to being advised by UKI that his 
claim may not be met. 
I understand Miss H and Mr M are very upset about the decision UKI made. But Im satisfied 
the actions UKI took when looking into the claim were fair. And I dont think it should have 
done anything differently  or that it should have reached a different conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman