DRN-4060529
The complaint
Miss S complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out proportionate affordability
checks before it granted her loans.
Miss S also says repaying these loans was difficult and she often went without basic needs
in order to make sure that these loans were repaid. Finally, Miss S says she is a vulnerable
person due to her mental health problems.
What happened
Miss S was advanced eight home credit loans and Ive summarised her borrowing in the 
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentsweekly 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 02/02/2017 15/05/2017 20 £15.00
2 £200.00 15/05/2017 26/09/2017 20 £15.00
3 £150.00 15/05/2017 10/10/2017 33 £7.50
4 £300.00 20/12/2017 31/07/2018 33 £15.00
5 £200.00 26/10/2018 04/06/2019 33 £10.00
six-month break in lending
6 £100.00 20/12/2019 21/04/2020 34 £5.00
five-month break in lending
7 £100.00 18/09/2020 01/12/2020 34 £5.00
eight-month break in lending
8 £200.00 02/08/2021 04/12/2021 35 £10.00
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. When
loans overlapped the cost per week increased, for example when loans two and three were
running at the same time Miss Ss weekly commitment was £22.50.
Morses wrote to Miss S to explain that it wasnt going to uphold her complaint because it had
carried out proportionate affordability checks. Miss S didnt accept the outcome and instead
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint, and she didnt uphold it. She explained that due to
the gaps in lending there were in effect four chains of borrowing. Loans 1  5 and then loan
6, loan 7 and loan 8.
Based on the checks Morses carried out before loans 1  5, loan 6 and loan 8 were granted
and taking account of Miss Ss repayment history the adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for
Morses to have granted these loans.
However, for loan 7, the adjudicator thought further checks ought to have been carried out
given the results of the credit search that Morses received from the credit reference agency.
The adjudicator proceeded to review Miss Ss bank statements but wasnt able to say that
the complaint could be upheld given what she could see in the statements.
Finally, the adjudicator considered the sensitive information that Miss S disclosed about her
health at the time these loans were approved. But, in her view, there was no evidence of any
discussion between Miss S and the Morses agent and so there wasnt enough for the 
adjudicator to be able to uphold the complaint based on this information.
Miss S didnt accept the outcome. Ive read her response in full, and Ive summarised it
below.
Miss S says the total amount she was due to pay for each loan wasnt disclosed to 
her.
Miss S says at the time she was vulnerable, in receipt of two types of benefits and 
the agent checked this, she signed a tablet and then left  she says no checks were
carried out.
Miss S says at the time she was bed bound and didnt leave her home. She also
provided some further information about a criminal matter that was ongoing in the
background at the time which impacted her decision to take the loans.
The reason why Miss S wasnt constantly borrowing was there were periods as she
didnt know what she was doing and wasnt in the right frame of mind.
Miss S provided some further details of her mental health diagnoses.
Miss S says she was worried about getting into trouble for not paying her loans as a
result she says she went without essentials.
Miss S wasnt paid weekly, but fortnightly and not once did she declare a weekly
income of £270.
The agent coming to her house was overwhelming and so he would ring in the
morning to ask for her bank details to make the payments.
The adjudicator, after it was allocated for a decision, went back to Miss S to ask for some 
further information from her about her heath and her wider situation at the time. I appreciate 
providing this information was difficult for Miss S but I do thank her for doing so.
I then proceeded to issue a provisional decision outlining why I was intending to partly 
uphold Miss Ss complaint about loans 5 and 7 only. A copy of the provisional findings 
follows this in smaller text and forms part of this final decision.
Both parties were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as possible but 
no later than 5 April 2023. 
Both Miss S and Morses let us know before the deadline that the decision had been received 
and neither party had any further comments or evidence to submit. 
As both parties responded to the provisional decision, I see no reason to delay the issuing of 
the final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.This decision has been split into two distinct parts. The first part, and what continues below
deals with Morses decisions to provide these loans and the checks it did at the time each
loan was granted. The second part I will provide my findings in relation to the information
Miss S gave us about her vulnerability.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Miss Ss income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
` loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
` (also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied in Miss Ss complaint.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss S was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint.
Loans 1  4
For these loans Morses says it carried out the same sort of checks and Morses has shown
that it asked Miss S for details of her income and expenditure.
For these loans Miss Ss income remained broadly similar being between £220 and £250 per
week. Miss S has previously provided details of the benefits she was receiving at loan 4 so I
think it is highly likely, that around this time, Morses was satisfied the weekly income was
£240. Albeit Miss S wouldve likely received her benefits every other week.
In addition, Miss S declared weekly outgoings of between £80 and £120. Overall, Morses
was aware that Miss S had at least £120 per week in disposable income to afford her
highest combined repayment of £22.50 per week.
Based solely on her income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident
Miss S would be able to afford the repayments she was committed to making.I also have copies of the credit agreements for each of these loans and these have been
signed by Miss S  possibly on a tablet as she suggested. But the information contained
within each agreement provides Miss S with the details of the loan, term and total amount
payable.
All of these loans appeared to have been either on time or slightly earlier than Miss S was
contracted to. There wasnt anything in the way these loans were repaid that ought to have
led Morses to conclude that either the loans were unaffordable or that they were unstainable
for her.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, taking account of some of the small gaps
between loans, such as between loans 3 and 4, I think it was reasonable for Morses to have
relied on the information Miss S gave to it and which showed these loans to be affordable.
There also wasnt anything else, in what Ive seen that wouldve led Morses to believe the
loan was unsuitable for Miss S for some other reason.
Im therefore proposing to not uphold Miss Ss complaint about these loans.
Loan 5
There was then almost a three-month break after loan 4 was repaid before Miss S returned
for loan 5. I dont think that gap is long enough to have broken the chain of lending, but it
was something that Morses could take account before it approved this loan.
For this loan, similar checks were carried as they were for loans 1  4. Miss S declared she
had a weekly income of £250. Morses says this income was checked with the credit
reference agency but, it hasnt provided the results of the check.
A weekly expenditure figure of £92 was declared which left Miss S with disposable weekly
income of £158 in which to afford her weekly repayment of £10. This loan therefore looked
affordable to Morses.
While I acknowledge that the previous loans had been repaid without any obvious
repayment problems  mainly by Miss S making payments every other week. I do think,
given how long the lending relationship had been on going, the fact that Miss Ss sole source
of income was benefits (which Morses knew from loan 4) and the fact that this loan was still
for £200  which is a similar amount to her other loans - ought to have prompted Morses to
have carried out further in-depth checks before advancing this loan.
There were a number of ways these further checks couldve been carried out. It couldve
asked Miss S for a copy of her full credit report, copy of her bank statements and / or any
documentation Morses felt was necessary to review to satisfy itself the repayments were
both affordable and sustainable for Miss S.
Miss Ss credit report which she has provided shows only three credit agreements were
open at the time, a water bill, a mobile phone and a bank account. Looking at the repayment
history for this account there also isnt anything which wouldve suggested to Morses that
she was struggling to repay these other creditors.
However, Miss Ss bank statement for the period leading up to this loan being approved,
shows that she had another loan with a well-known home credit provider as well as two
further loans from another high-cost credit provider.
I think its fair to say that Miss S was already on a modest income  given her sole source of
income was in my view, already over committed to high-cost lenders. In that situation, there
was, in my view, a real risk that the loan wasnt going to be sustainable for her given her
income and her other outstanding loans. I am therefore intending to uphold Miss Ss
complaint about this loan.
Loan 6There was then a six-month break between Miss S repaying loan 5 and returning for loan 6.
As this loan was smaller than any loan Miss S had taken in her first chain of lending and the
break in lending, was enough for Morses to have reconsidered Miss Ss application afresh.
The consequences of this, is that while this was Miss Ss sixth loan in total, it was her first
loan in a new chain of lending and that does have implications for the level and type of check
that Morses ought to have carried out before this loan was approved.
For this loan, similar checks were carried out as they were for loans 1  5. Miss S declared
she had a weekly income of £270. Again, Morses says this income was checked with the
credit reference agency but like loan 5, it hasnt provided the results of the check. In any
event, given it was the first loan in a new chain I do think it was reasonable for Morses to
have relied on the information Miss S had provided.
A weekly expenditure figure of £105  which left Miss S with disposable weekly income of
£165 in which to afford her weekly repayment of £5. This loan therefore looked affordable.
The credit agreement for this loan again set out the term, amount borrowed, and the total
amount Miss S was contracted to pay. Miss S settled this earlier than planned and she
received an interest rebate of £16.41 for doing so. As far as I can see the interest has been
charged in line with what the credit agreement explained and so I cant say Morses has
made an error by granting this loan.
Im therefore planning not to uphold Miss Ss complaint about this loan.
Loan 7
There was then another break of around 5 months after loan 6 was repaid. And Ive
considered this loan to be the start of a new lending chain.
The same checks were carried out for this loan, but in addition a credit search was also
carried out by Morses, and a copy of the results have been provided. Ive explained what this
means for this loan below.
Morses also says, that Miss S wouldnt have signed the credit agreement as she did for
previous loans because it has said this was a faster payment loan. This means, the loans
were applied for and signed on Morses online customer portal.
As before, there didnt appear to have been any previous repayment problems that Morses
needed to consider or to factor into its decision.
For this loan, Morses has shown that it asked Miss S for details of her income and Miss S
declared she had an income of £270 per week. Morses also suggested that this income was
verified through a check with the credit reference agency. This wouldve given Morses
confidence that the figure Miss S declared was accurate.
Miss S also declared outgoings of £117 per week. This left Miss S with £153 a week
disposable income in which to make her repayments of £5. The loan appeared affordable.
Morses also carried out a credit check when this loan was approved, and a copy of those
results have been supplied to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Its worth saying here that
there was no regulatory requirement for Morses to have carried out a credit search let alone
one to a specific standard. But what Morses couldnt do is carry out a credit check and not
react to the information it was provided with.
Ive summarised the key information which Morses saw as part of the credit check;
Miss S had 3 active credit facilities
Miss S had 1, unsatisfied County Court Judgement (CCJ) for £901 which wasrecorded against Miss S just 6 months before this loan was approved.
Miss S had only opened one new credit account within the last year  this was likely
to be a previous Morses loan.
Miss S had 2 delinquent accounts with the most recent having entered delinquency
the month before this loan was approved. This is despite Miss S only having 3 active
accounts.
I appreciate the adjudicator thought the credit search ought to have led to further checks, but
I disagree because the information it had suggested that Miss S was already struggling to
maintain her contractual repayments for her open credit accounts.
Therefore, given what the credit results show, I dont think, in this case that it matters
whether the loan appeared pounds and pence affordable because in my view the loan
wasnt suitable for Miss S.
I say this because the credit file information provided to Morses showed that Miss S had a
recently unsatisfied CCJ as well as the fact that 2 of Miss Ss active accounts were
delinquent (likely due to missed payments) which ought to have alerted Morses that Miss S
was having immediate financial difficulties.
Overall, Im satisfied the information within the credit checks ought to have alerted Morses to
the fact that Miss S was likely having current and immediate financial difficulties and it
shouldnt have approved the loan.
I am therefore intending to uphold Miss Ss complaint about this loan.
Loan 8
There was then another 8-month break after Miss S repaid loan 7 before returning for this
loan. Again, Ive treated this as a new chain of lending, because in my view the break is
significant enough for Morses to treat her application afresh.
Miss S declared an income of £270 with outgoings of £185. This left Miss S with her smallest
amount of disposable income to date at only £85 per week. Although, Morses may still have
felt this loan was affordable because the weekly repayment Miss S was due to make was
£10.
Morses hasnt provided a credit search result for this loan, so I can only assume that a credit
search wasnt carried out like it was for loan 7. But, while a credit search wasnt carried out, I
do think, Morses may have wanted to have carried out further checks before granting this
loan.
I say this, because it was previously on notice that Miss S was having immediate difficulties
in repaying the outstanding credit commitment that she had at the time. So, I do think, for
this loan further checks ought to have been carried out by Morses.
There were a number of ways these further checks couldve been carried out, it couldve
asked Miss S for a copy of her full credit report, copy of her bank statements and / or any
documentation Morses felt was necessary to review to satisfy itself the repayments were
both affordable and sustainable for Miss S.
I dont have Miss Ss bank statements for July or August 2021, so I dont know exactly what
was going on with her finances. However, I can see in the May and June 2021 bank
statements, that Miss S received the two types of benefit payments she previously
described. It looks like Miss S received £340 every other week and then a further £240 once
a month.
There is very little in the way of living costs visible on the statements, so I dont know
whether the cash withdrawals went towards the living costs that Miss S had. In addition, as
the adjudicator pointed out in her view, there are several transfers made through a third-party payment provider  but I dont know what all of them were for.
At the time, I can see repayments to one other lender, but these are £70 per month and
there is nothing to suggest that Miss S was having difficulties repaying that loan.
Ive also considered Miss Ss credit file and there isnt anything contained within it that I can
see that ought to have led Morses to have declined her application. So, there doesnt appear
to have been, for example, lots of outstanding credit or that she was behind with any of her
repayments.
So, while, Morses didnt do enough checks before this loan was approved, had further
checks been carried out I think its more likely than not Morses wouldve discovered that
Miss S could afford the loan repayment.
Im therefore also not intending to uphold this loan.
Other considerations
As I said above, shortly after allocation Miss S provided further details about her situation at
the time these loans were approved, Ive summarised her response below, but I have
removed certain pieces of information to protect Miss Ss privacy.
Health
I want to be clear I have considered everything that Miss S has disclosed to the Financial
Ombudsman about her medical history and diagnoses  which stretches back a number of
years and does coincide with the dates that she took loans from Morses. In short, Miss S
says she wasnt in the right frame of mind to take out these loans, and often went without
essentials such as food, in order to pay what she owed, because she was so anxious about
not paying and then consequences of such actions.
The earliest documentation Miss S has provided about her health was that she sought
treatment in 2014 and then she has provided screen shots of notes that I believe come from
her GP  these show that at least from March 2019 she was making contact with her GP to
discuss her current mental health. Given what Miss S has told us  this is likely to have been
connected to the other events she has described to the Financial Ombudsman and which I
briefly comment on below.
So, I think its fair to say, based on Miss Ss testimony and the medical evidence she has
provided she has had a need for ongoing treatment and support for a number of years and
there are times during the lending relationship with Morses that we have documentary
evidence of further appointments. However, I do not need to outline everything here, but I
am glad to see that in her recent correspondences she has been receiving the help and
support that she needs, and I wish her well for the future.
Miss S says that Morses ought to have been aware of her vulnerability caused by her mental
health. This is because shes explained how these were discussed with the agent at the time
the loans were approved. Whereas, Morses says that it was unaware of Miss Ss
vulnerability and its contact notes support what it has said because there is nothing within
these notes to suggest Miss S was vulnerable.
I have evidence that Morses, at the very least didnt note down any discussions that may
have been had between Miss S and her agent, and it has reiterated it didnt know about
Miss Ss vulnerability. However, that isnt the only test I have to consider. I also have to
consider ought Morses to have been aware of Miss Ss health and even if it was aware, does
that mean that Miss S shouldnt have been provided with her loans?
Ive therefore looked at and considered regulatory Mental Capacity Guidance in the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) CONC Chapter 2.10 with which I am familiar. In summary I have to
decide whether Morses knew or ought to have known at the time the loans were granted thatMiss S lacked capacity. If the answer to either one of these questions is yes, then I have to
go on to consider whether Morses ought to have lent the loans.
As Ive said above, Miss S says she discussed her conditions with the Morses agent. I cant
say for sure, but given these were home credit loans, I would be surprised if there was no
discussion about Miss Ss health considering that we know from the checks Morses knew
that Miss S was in receipt of benefits. I also dont think its an unreasonable leap to say that
she wouldve likely disclosed the type of benefit she was receiving and the reasons for that.
However, I have kept in mind that even if Morses or its agent did have any grounds to
suspect that a customer may have some form of mental capacity limitation, this doesnt
mean it was necessarily wrong for the loan(s) to be granted.
This has been part of my consideration. So, in short, I have to be satisfied that Morses either
knew or ought to have known about Miss Ss vulnerability but equally even if it did know
about her vulnerabilities that doesnt mean it was necessarily wrong for it to have advanced
the loans.
Ultimately, the indicators mentioned in the guidance have guided me, and while it is clear
that Miss S has been unwell for a number of years and has at times sought extra help and
support, I really dont have enough evidence in this case to say that even if Morses knew
about Miss Ss mental health problems that it ought to mean all the loans shouldnt have
been granted to her.
I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed by my decision on this case in relation to this aspect
of her complaint, but I do hope she understand as to why Ive come to these conclusions.
Coercion
Miss S say that loans taken out between, and September 2018 and February 2019 were
only applied for because she was forced to do  which covers the period when loan 5 was
granted. And she has supplied evidence from a local charity and the police as well as her
own testimony to support what she has disclosed to us.
I understand there is a criminal investigation ongoing and to respect Miss Ss privacy I wont
go into any great detail here. Having considered the evidence provided by Miss S I have no
doubt she was coerced into taking lending  loan 5. It is also likely, given the evidence and
the fact this was a home collected loan that Morses ought to have been aware that she was
coerced into lending. However, as Ive explained above, as I intend to uphold Miss Ss
complaint about this loan, I say no more about it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss S nor Morses provided any new comments or evidence about the outcome 
that was intending to be reached I see no reason to depart from the findings that were made 
in the provisional decision. 
I still think Morses made a reasonable decision to provide loans 1  4, 6 and 8. However, 
Morses ought to not have provided loans 5 and 7 due to the information it was provided with 
from the credit reference agency showed Morses these loans were likely to be unsustainable 
for her. 
Ive set out below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Miss S. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not provided loans 5 and 7, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss S may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss S would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have granted Miss S loans 5 and 7.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss S 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay to Miss S the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in 
relation to loans 5 and 7.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Ss 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Miss S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman