DRN-3610671
The complaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) sold his investments and 
transferred his pension to Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) without him 
instructing it to do so. He says he has lost out financially as a result.
What happened 
Mr H wanted to move away from Aegon to a different provider. On 3 September 2020, 
Aegon received Mr Hs transfer application to make an in-specie transfer to IISL Had an in-
specie transfer been possible, Mr Hs investments would not have been sold, instead they 
would have been re-registered with the new pension provider.
In late September 2020, Aegon emailed the administrator Barnett Waddingham (BW). It said 
Unfortunately, on this type of plan it is not possible to proceed with an in-specie transfer.
Please confirm if you are happy to proceed on a cash transfer basis.
On 15 November 2020, IISL wrote to Aegon saying the client has contacted us to tell us 
they will be advising Aegon to liquidate funds and to transfer over as cash. Please can 
Aegon advise if they have done this?. Aegon responded saying that it had not had a 
response about a cash transfer.
Mr H said he decided he still wanted to transfer his pension away from Aegon. But that he 
intended to manage the timing of the sale of his investments, to get the best unit prices. 
On 7 January 2021 Mr H instructed Aegon to sell down his shares in one particular 
investment fund. Mr H said this fund represented around 40% of the total value of his 
pension fund. This money was then held in cash in Mr Hs pension fund. Mr H did not 
instruct Aegon to sell down any of the other investments in his pension fund or proceed with 
the transfer.
Mr H told IISL that some of his investments in his pension fund had been sold and that 
the remainder would be sold in due course.
BW emailed Aegon on 18 January 2021. This email stated Can Aegon please provide us 
with an update on the progress of this cash transfer? We have been advised that the client 
has sold some of the assets and that Aegon will sell the rest for them.
Following this, on 20 January 2021, Aegon sold down all the remaining investments within 
Mr Hs pension fund.
On 22 February 2021 Aegon wrote to IISL to confirm that an amount of around 
£654,000,000 had been paid into IISLs nominated bank account in respect of Mr Hs 
pension fund.
Mr H complained to Aegon because he said he had not instructed it to sell down the 
rest of his investments. Aegon did not uphold his complaint. It took the view that it had 
acted appropriately, because it had been instructed, through BW, to sell the balance of 
Mr Hs investments and transfer it to IISL. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it and recommended 
it was upheld. The investigator concluded that it was not in dispute that Mr H did not 
personally instruct Aegon to sell the remainder of his investments. It was also not in dispute 
that Aegon had acted upon BWs email of 18 January 2021, which our investigator 
acknowledged was not well worded. However, the investigator concluded that the email from 
BW was not sufficiently clear to amount to a clear instruction to sell down Mr Hs remaining 
investments and to process a cash transfer to a new plan provided by IISL. Our investigator 
took the view that Aegon should have checked with Mr H before selling down his 
investments and proceeding with the transfer.
The investigator set out a methodology for establishing whether Mr H had lost out financially 
as a result of Aegons actions, and, if so, how compensation should be calculated. He also 
acknowledged that Aegon had agreed to pay Mr H £500 in total for the trouble and upset it 
had caused processing his switch and for the transfer delay.
Aegon made detailed representations in response to our investigators recommendation, all 
of which I have read. I have summarised these here:
Aegon was instructed to transfer Mr Hs pension fund on 3 September 2020. It was 
not instructed to switch it. The difference being that a transfer involves moving the 
pension to a new provider and closing down the Aegon plan. A switch involves the 
movement of funds from one fund to another within the plan, not moving to a new 
provider.
On 28 September 2020 Aegon responded to an in-specie transfer request from BW 
and told them this was not possible. It asked them to confirm if they wanted to 
proceed on a cash transfer basis instead.
IISL contacted Aegon on 15 November 2020 to say that Mr H had informed it that he 
would be advising Aegon to liquidate the funds and to transfer in cash.
The later instruction received from Mr H was a switch instruction to transfer one of his 
funds into cash.
The 18 January 2021 email from BW was a response to Aegons 28 September 2020 
email, which asked if they were happy to proceed on a cash transfer basis as an in-
specie transfer was not possible. BWs email provided clear instruction to sell the 
remaining assets. It was reasonable for Aegon to process the transfer given the 
instruction received from BW. 
Mr H and his advisers did not inform Aegon that he wanted to put the transfer request 
on hold, nor did it ask for a partial transfer. Aegon has to comply with regulatory 
requirements to complete transfers in a timely way.
The notional date used by which the remaining investments would have been 
disinvested needs to be justified.
Mr Hs complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Mr H instructed Aegon to transfer his pension to IISL in-specie. Aegon was not able to fulfil 
that instruction. As it was unable to fulfil that instruction, Aegon asked Mr H, through the 
administrator, whether he wanted to proceed with a cash transfer.
Aegon did not receive a response or any further instructions about the transfer before Mr H 
instructed Aegon to switch one of his invested funds into cash, in early January 2021. I note, 
as Aegon asks me to, the difference between this instruction to switch funds within his 
Aegon pension plan and his earlier transfer instruction. So, I think it ought to have been 
reasonably clear to Aegon from this intervening switch event, that Mr H was not asking it to 
proceed with a cash transfer, just to switch one of his funds into cash. 
It was clear from IISLs November 2020 email, that IISL believed Mr H was taking 
responsibility for providing instructions on any cash transfer to Aegon. 
It is accepted that Mr H didnt personally instruct Aegon to cash in his funds or make the 
transfer. In my view Mr Hs September 2020 transfer instruction had already been overridden 
by January 2021, when BW wrote to Aegon. Firstly, by the intervening completed switch, 
secondly because Aegon had said it could not fulfil his clear written instruction to transfer in 
specie and thirdly because Mr H had not said he wanted to proceed with a cash transfer. In 
my view, Aegon was not acting under Mr Hs original in-specie transfer instruction or any 
direct authority provided by Mr H to sell down his investments and transfer his fund to IISL. 
In terms of completing any transfer in a timely way, until Mr H provided a clear and 
unequivocal request to transfer his pension fund in cash, rather than in-specie, timeliness did 
not become an issue. 
I have gone on to consider whether it was reasonable for Aegon to proceed on the basis that 
BW was indirectly instructing Aegon to cash in Mr Hs funds and transfer his pension based 
on their 18 January 2021 email. Ive looked carefully at the wording of this email. Like our 
investigator, I think the wording could have been clearer. It wasnt clear, so, in my view that 
made it even more important that without direct instruction from Mr H, this email should not 
have been treated as providing authority, without further clarification. I do not consider that 
Aegon acted reasonably in responding in the way it did. Given the lack of clarity and not 
having heard directly from Mr H, I think it would have been fair and reasonable to check 
before Aegon took the action it did, to sell down Mr Hs investments and transfer his pension 
fund. 
I therefore consider that Aegon did something wrong and that Mr H may have lost out 
financially due Aegons actions. I think it likely at some point Mr H would have transferred to 
a new provider, probably IISL, given that was his intention in September 2020 and he 
cashed in a sizeable part of his pension fund, seemingly to prepare to transfer.   
I accept what Mr H has said about him trying to sell his other investments when prices were 
at their optimum. However, having already disinvested, Im told around 40% of his fund, I 
think he would have wanted to proceed with the transfer as soon as markets allowed. Our 
investigator selected a notional sale date of 30 April 2021, for the remaining investments. 
This was selected to notionally give Mr H a few months to sell. I consider this to be a fair 
approach taken by our investigator. I see no reason to change this notional date by which all 
investments would likely have been sold. 
I have gone on to consider, as Aegon asks me to, the usual timescales involved in 
processing transfers. It said that its pricing is usually one day behind. Therefore if it had 
received an instruction to encash and transfer the full fund on 30 April 2021, then the full 
fund would have been valued at date of receipt plus 2 working days (5 May 2021) and then transferred within 10 working days from the date of request, so by 17 May 2021. 
Aegon said funds would take 3 to 5 working days to reach IISP, before investments could 
be made. I accept what Aegon has said about the usual processing timescales for 
processing transfer requests. 
I have also considered whether as a means of mitigating his loss, it would have been 
reasonable to expect Mr H to cancel the transfer. An option Aegon suggests Mr H should 
have pursued. I dont think I can fairly hold it against Mr H that he did not seek to undo 
Aegons actions and reinstate his plan with Aegon. Prior to these events, Mr H was already 
dissatisfied enough with the service offered by Aegon that he had taken active steps to move 
his pension fund away. I think it likely that the circumstances outlined here, would have 
increased that level of dis-satisfaction further.  So, this doesnt change my view.
Aegons offered to pay Mr H £500 for the trouble and upset caused by its shortcomings in 
relation to the switch and the transfer. This has already been paid to Mr H, I understand. I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable response in relation to Mr Hs trouble and upset. 
So, I make no further award in respect of his non-financial loss. However, I do consider that 
Aegon needs to do more, to address any financial loss that Mr H may have.
So, overall, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and order Aegon to put matters right as set out below.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in had the investmentst not been sold without 
authority and instead been sold at a time of his choosing.
I cant say exactly when Mr H would have sold the remaining investments in his Aegon 
pension fund. However, as he was keen to move away from Aegon, I think he would likely 
have done this as soon as practical, particularly as he had already cashed in a sizeable 
part of his fund and was holding this in cash. 
Like our investigator, I think it is reasonable to use a notional date of 30 April 2021 as 
the date by which Mr H likely would have sold down the remainder of his investments. 
This would have given Mr H a few months to cash in all his investments.
Therefore, to compensate Mr H fairly. Aegon should:
Compare the encashment values of the investments sold on 20 February 2021 
with what the encashment value would have been had Mr H instructed Aegon to 
encash the remainder of his investments on 30 April 2021, with these being 
valued on 5 May 2021. 
Based on a 30 April 2021 encashment instruction, funds would have been sent 
to the new provider on or around 17 May 2021 (taking into account the bank 
holiday) and received by IISL ready to invest in Mr Hs chosen investments by 
20 May 2021.
When calculating whether Mr H has lost out Aegon should assume that the 
same delays between monies being available and investments being made as 
actually occurred. Also, if not all of Mr Hs monies within the IISL SIPP were 
invested, Aegon should work out proportionately what proportion of Mr Hs 
funds were invested in each investment and calculate any loss using these assumptions.
The investments made in the ISIL SIPP should be re-modelled based on this 
hypothetical later investment date, and any losses at that time brought up to 
date based on the performance in the underlying investments.
If there is a loss, Aegon should pay into Mr H's pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. This payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Aegon 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Aegon are unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, Aegon 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim 
any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Aegon shall provide the details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear and simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
IISL SIPP Still exists Actual underlying Amended Date of
and liquid investments transfer date settlement
based on
investment
encashment
instruction 
on 30 April
2021 valued 
as at 5 May 
2021
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the actual underlying investments made. additional sum paid into the 
investment should be added to the fair value calculation from the point in time when it 
was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from Mr H's pension should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Aegon total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
I have chosen this method of compensation because 
Mr H wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The above solution takes into account that the encashment values of the 
investments held within the Aegon pension would have changed between 20 
February 2021 and 5 May 2021, but also that the prices of the subsequent 
investments made within the IISL pension would also have changed between the 
dates they were actually made and the hypothetical later date Mr H would have 
made them.
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Scottish Equitable Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2022
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman