DRN-2568387
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential).
What happened
Mr B bought the PPI policy when he took out a mortgage in 1998. Mr B said that the PPI sale 
took place in a meeting and that Prudential advised him to take out the policy  and indeed 
he wasnt given a choice about taking it.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr B at a monthly cost 
of £11.93. The monthly benefit was £211.00. If Mr B had made a successful claim, the policy 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. Prudential told us the policy was cancelled 
in 2008.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Prudential disagreed, and asked 
that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Prudential couldnt provide any documents from the point of sale, but it sent in sample 
copies of the policy terms and conditions and a computer record of Mr Bs policy details. Mr 
B sent in extracts from a financial review document completed by the Prudential 
representative in 1998. I cant see specific details of the PPI policy on these extracts, but as 
theres a reference to the meeting being to consider Mr Bs mortgage needs, it seems most 
likely that the sale took place at this meeting. 
Mr B said he wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI. Prudential said the PPI was 
optional. In the absence of any documents relating specifically to the PPI sale, I cant say 
how the PPI was presented to Mr B. But as I am upholding the complaint for other reasons, I 
dont need to make a finding on this point. 
Mr B says he was advised to take the PPI. Prudential didnt dispute this point, and from 
whats on the financial review document I think its most likely that the PPI was 
recommended for Mr B. So the adviser shouldve made sure it was suitable for him. I dont 
think it was.
Mr Bs employment was noted on the financial review document, so I think the adviser ought 
reasonably have been aware of his circumstances. The nature of Mr Bs employment meant 
that he had very good employee benefits  he wouldve been entitled to sick pay (at his full 
pay rate) until he returned to work or was medically retired, and in the case of redundancy 
he wouldve received much more than the statutory provision. I accept that Mr Bs borrowing 
was secured against his home  but Ive also taken into account the amount borrowed, 
which was quite low. It seems to me that Mr B wouldve been able to maintain the mortgage 
payments if he was off sick or made redundant, and therefore I dont consider he wouldve 
had a particular need for the cover. 
 
Overall, from the evidence I have, I am not satisfied that the PPI was suitable for Mr B. And 
therefore I dont think he wouldve taken the policy out if he had been properly advised. As a 
result I have concluded that his complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
Prudential should put Mr B in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the PPI. The 
policy has been cancelled, so Prudential should:
Pay Mr B the amount he paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Prudential can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Prudential to take off tax from this interest. Prudential must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited should pay him the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman