DRN-3700298
The complaint
Ms W complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) purchased the wrong 
shares for her. She says, if shed known she couldnt buy shares in the company she 
wanted, she would have taken further advice and purchased the bond.
Ms Ws complaint is about what happened when her account was held with The Share 
Centre. IISL acquired The Share Centre in February 2021 and it is responsible for her 
complaint. For ease, Ill refer to the business as IISL throughout my decision.
What happened
Ms W has an execution only share dealing account with IISL. In 2018 she received advice 
from a friend to invest in London Capital and Finance Plc (LCF). She phoned IISL to place 
an order to invest £10,000 in the company.
The dealer couldnt find LCF on IISLs system. After further checks he said, we have them 
down as London Capital Group Holdings. He checked the price with Ms W, and she 
confirmed she wanted to trade at best. The dealer invested £10,000 in London Capital 
Group Holdings (LCGH)  a different company to the one Ms W wanted to invest in.
Ms W received a contract note confirming shed purchased LCGH ordinary 5p shares but, 
because of the phone conversation, she assumed shed invested in the correct company.
LCF went into administration in January 2019 and around a year later the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) declared LCF had failed.
LCGH also went into liquidation in July 2020.
Ms W, assuming she held LCF shares, tried to apply for compensation through the FSCS. It 
was during this process that she was told she didnt have any investment in LCF and, on 
further investigation, she realised she was invested in the wrong company. 
She said that, if shed known there were no shares available to purchase in LCF, she would 
have invested in its corporate bond; and that, as a bond holder, she would have received 
compensation from the FSCS.
She didnt receive any compensation for her holding of LCGH shares.
IISL said Ms W wrongly informed it of the investment she wanted to buy. After the complaint 
was referred to us, it offered Ms W £100 to settle the complaint, which she declined.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded IISL had 
made an error and that it had purchased the wrong shares for Ms W. He thought, had IISL 
given Ms W the right information, she would have gone elsewhere to invest in an LCF bond. 
LCF bondholders are due to receive 80% of the amount invested, less 10% costs, so the 
investigator thought it fair that IISL pay Ms W £7,000.
IISL didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I agreed with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld, and I explained why. 
I said:
Ms W wanted to invest in an 8% corporate bond issued by LCF. This was a 
mini bond which was available to purchase through LCF. It wasnt available to 
purchase through IISL.
Ms W wasnt familiar with corporate bonds  and didnt know she couldnt purchase 
the LCF bond through IISL. When she phoned IISL on 20 April 2018, she told it she 
wanted to invest £10,000 in LCF. I think she made it clear that she wanted to invest 
in LCF  she repeated the name several times and she provided a phone number 
which, when typed in a search engine, brings up several results linked to LCF.
IISL couldnt find LCF on its system. It found LCGH instead and wrongly assumed it 
was one and the same as LCF. The dealer told Ms W, We have them down as 
LCGH and that It sounds like the right one. It looks like the right one. When Ms W 
gave IISL LCFs phone number, the dealer said, That looks like the right company. It 
matches up with the name on our system.
Its clear IISL made a mistake. It wrongly thought LCF and LCGH were the same 
company.
When a business makes a mistake, we would expect it to put things right. But Ive 
firstly thought about whether Ms W could or should have realised, earlier than she 
did, that a mistake had been made.
IISL was providing an execution only dealing service and it was Ms Ws responsibility 
to research the investment before she proceeded. But she made it clear what 
company she wanted to invest in, and I think it was reasonable for her to rely on 
IISLs conclusion that it had found the correct company.
She wanted to invest in a bond. The contract note she received made it clear shed 
invested in ordinary shares. But its clear  both from the recorded phone call and 
from what shes told us  that she wasnt familiar with corporate bonds and hadnt 
invested in them before. She told IISL the investment paid 8% quarterly, but when 
IISL asked if that was dividend Ms W wasnt sure. Im persuaded that, when she 
received the contract note, she reasonably thought shed made the investment she 
wanted to  because IISL had assured her that LCF and LCGH were one and the 
same. And that she didnt understand the difference between bonds and shares.
I think its clear from Ms Ws actions after LCF went into administration that she 
thought that was the company shed invested in. And I think in the circumstances she 
reasonably didnt realise a mistake had been made until the FSCS told her she 
wasnt invested in LCF.
Ive found IISL made a mistake. Ive gone on to think about what Ms W would have 
done differently if she hadnt been given the wrong information by IISL.
Ms W says that, if the dealer had told her LCF hadnt issued any ordinary shares, she 
would have realised it was the bond she wanted to buy, and she would have arranged to invest in the bond. And that, as a bondholder, she would have received 
£7,000 under the FSCSs arrangement.
Ive considered this very carefully. I cant conclude exactly what Ms W would have 
done if IISL hadnt made a mistake. Its clear she wouldnt have invested in LCGH. 
I think its more likely than not that she would have sought further advice from her 
friend, or phoned LCF. And that, on the balance of probabilities, she would have 
invested £10,000 in the LCF corporate bond, as shed intended.
I agreed with the investigator that IISL should pay Ms W £7,000, being the amount she 
would have received from the FSCS if shed have purchased the LCF bond. 
But I also thought Ms W should be compensated for the inconvenience shed been caused in 
communicating with the FSCS, as I thought this inconvenience was linked to IISLs initial 
error. I thought £150 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Both parties agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional decision, and havent provided any additional 
information, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusion.
Putting things right
The investigator set out the compensation arrangements for LCF. And I agree with his 
conclusion that IISL should pay Ms W £7,000. This would be the amount shed have 
received from the FSCS if shed have purchased the LCF bond. Im satisfied that her holding 
of LCGH shares has no value and that she wont receive compensation for the shares she 
holds  so theres nothing to be deducted from the £7,000.
Ms W has spent a considerable amount of time communicating with the FSCS and I think its 
fair IISL compensate her for the inconvenience shes been caused, as in my view this 
inconvenience is linked to IISLs initial error. I think £150 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Interactive Investor Services Limited should 
pay Ms W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman