DRN-1541494
 
The complaint
S is unhappy with Nationwide Building Society, as S thinks they irresponsibly lent them 
£8,000 when they couldnt afford the repayments. S also says they were originally offered 
the loan with a 14% interest rate (or APR), but that rose to 18.9% when they completed their 
application in branch. 
What happened
In September 2018, S applied for a loan with Nationwide to pay for a medical procedure. 
This was for £8,000  to be paid back over 50 months, at around £225 each month.
The loan was reprocessed in October 2018, after Nationwide queried the monthly salary 
figure S had put on their application. Then a lower salary figure was applied and the loan 
was accepted  this happened in branch.
S was a student at the time, had only been working for three months full-time and says their 
income was variable.
When they applied for the loan, they say they werent in good health and felt pressured to 
accept the loan as a result of the reprocessing delays  because theyd paid a deposit 
towards their medical procedure and the final payment date was imminent.
S is unhappy that there was no human consideration when they applied and were accepted 
for the loan. They say Nationwide didnt ask about their health or take into account that they 
were a young adult  and they are in financial difficulty now and unable to make repayments.
Nationwide dont think they acted irresponsibly when agreeing to the loan. They say S met 
all their lending criteria  and the application showed they could afford the repayments. And 
there was nothing to indicate S wasnt in good health at the time.
Our investigator didnt uphold S complaint. As S didnt agree with this, the complaint has 
been passed to me to review and make a decision.
I sent a provisional decision to S and Nationwide on 19 December 2019 and said I was 
thinking of not upholding this complaint. And I gave both parties until 6 January 2020 to 
provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider before I made my final 
decision. Neither have provided any further information for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done that, Ive decided not to 
uphold S complaint.I can see S has been through a very difficult time and is concerned about their ability to 
make the loan repayments. So, I think they will be disappointed by my decision. But Ive 
explained why I think its a fair answer below.
Did Nationwide lend irresponsibly to S?
When businesses are considering lending money to consumers, they should carry out 
checks to make sure they can afford the loan. And the rules businesses follow say those 
checks should be proportionate to things like the size of the loan, the repayments, the 
customers lending history and what the business already knows about the customer.
So, Ive looked at what Nationwide did and the information they wouldve likely reviewed 
when S applied for their loan.
I can see Nationwide ran checks on S finances  including their borrowing history and the 
accounts they held  and this didnt highlight anything that suggested Nationwide should be 
concerned about lending to S.
The online application completed by S shows S would have a disposable income of £320, 
once their income, likely expenditure and the cost of the loan had been taken into account.
S student account largely stayed within its agreed £1,000 overdraft limit in the six months 
leading up to the loan. And S additional current account didnt drop below zero in the six 
months leading up to the loan.
S had an average salary of around £1,100, plus regular additional payments coming into 
their student account in the three months leading up to the loan. S also confirmed that they 
were employed on the application  and said they didnt think their salary would alter during 
the term of the loan.
Ive thought about the fact that although S said they were full-time employed on their 
application, theyd had a student account since September 2017.  S was borrowing £8,000, 
which was, arguably, a relatively large amount given they were also a young adult and 
applied through their student account.
But Nationwide have said a student account retains its status, until the students course ends 
 unless the account holder requests an amendment or closure. So holding a student 
account isnt a firm indication that the account holder isnt working. And in a call between S 
and Nationwide from August 2019, S told Nationwide theyd intended to continue working 
full-time, even when they were back at university. It was only after the loan had gone through 
that they realised this wasnt something they could do.
I can also see that the overdraft limit on the student account increased to £2,000 in October 
2018. But it isnt unusual for students to increase their overdraft when entering their second 
year  and its the amount Nationwide offered as standard on this type of account. It doesnt 
seem like an unreasonable limit to set in Ss circumstances  and Ive not seen anything to 
suggest the overdraft was increased because S took out the loan.
So, from everything Ive seen, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when they agreed 
to the loan application. It was reasonable for Nationwide to lend S the amount they did 
based on the information available to them. 
S health issuesIf S had told Nationwide about their health issues, I dont think Nationwide would likely have 
declined the loan for that reason alone. Nationwides concern mightve been about S health 
affecting their ability to work and make the payments  but Ive already set out that it seems 
S had intended to keep working full-time.
Nationwides impersonal approach to lending
S said there was no personal side, nuance or human consideration put into the decision to 
lend.  But its not my role to tell Nationwide what their processes should be  and its for 
them to decide if they want to let their customers apply for loans online.  Similarly, it was S 
choice to apply in this way initially.
S did deal face-to-face with Nationwide in October when they visited the branch to get the 
loan finally approved. And Ive heard several calls between S and Nationwide that took place 
after the loan was granted  they listened to what S has to say, and they were helpful and 
human in how they responded. While this was after the loan was sold, I think its likely 
indicative of how they treated S overall  and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest the 
opposite. 
Was S quoted a lower APR?
All the evidence Ive seen  including the original application, two pre-loan agreements and 
the loan agreement itself  shows the APR for the loan was 18.9%.
Nationwide have said S mightve been given what they call a soft quote before they actually 
applied for the loan. But theres nothing to show thats what happened in this particular case 
 S hasnt got anything which shows where or when they were told they would get 14%. So, 
I think its more likely S was only offered APR at 18.9%  and thats the rate S accepted 
when they completed the loan application.
Pressure to accept the loan
S says they felt pressure to accept the loan in October 2018, as theyd already booked their 
medical procedure, paid a deposit and the final payment was imminently due. 
But I think Nationwide were right to re-check S salary, as the amount on the initial 
application was higher than the average salary being paid into S account. And the delay 
between their original application and the loan being granted wasnt a lengthy one  around 
three weeks.
Also, S had already made some payments towards the procedure before they knew if 
Nationwide would grant them a loan  and thats not something we can hold against 
Nationwide. Ive seen nothing which suggests Nationwide gave any guarantees S would get 
the loan.
Financial difficulties  and Nationwides response
S has said theyve been suffering financial difficulties since taking out the loan.
I know S rang Nationwide on a number of occasions to discuss their loan repayments. And 
Ive seen Nationwides call notes and listened to some of the calls  in February, June and 
August 2019.
In February 2019, S rang to check how many late payments theyd had so far and discussed 
what direct debits were coming into their account  and what impact any late loan payments would have on their credit history. Missed payments in and of themselves might be an 
indication a borrower is having some sort of financial difficulties.  But, in this case, S 
engaged with Nationwide and doesnt seem to have indicated they couldnt afford the 
repayments at that point or would have any difficulty making up any that theyd missed.
In June 2019 S stopped making payments on the loan and Ive also listened to calls in June 
2019 and August 2019.
During these calls, S explored their options, in particular whether they should continue to pay 
their premiums while our service was still investigating their complaint. Nationwide answered 
S questions and  in both June and August 2019  offered S breathing space while we 
investigated. This means they werent chased for any payments until the next one was due. 
S also seemed happy with this option.
In the August 2019 call, the call handler explored more possible options for S  and asked a 
number of questions about their current situation. But I dont think S says enough to make 
Nationwide think S might be in imminent financial difficulty. And I think its clear when the call 
ends that S has breathing space for another month  and knows they have the option to call 
back to discuss their options.
I can also see that Nationwide wrote to S on three occasions about arrears on their account. 
And Nationwide have confirmed these letters asked about any financial difficulties  and 
included a number that S could call to discuss any concerns they had with being able to 
make payments.
Overall, I think Nationwide have acted positively and sympathetically about S financial 
difficulties and have remained open to providing S support. This is what we would expect  
so I dont think Nationwide need to do anything more here.
But if S is still concerned about their financial situation, they can get in touch with Nationwide 
again to discuss it further.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold S complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Ombudsman