DRN-2245216
The complaint
Mr Z complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) placed a default on his
personal current account when hed agreed a repayment plan with it for his overdraft.
What happened
Mr Z had a current account with RBS which was overdrawn. In 2018, Mr Z experienced a
period of ill health and this had an impact on his financial situation.
In September 2018, RBS wrote to Mr Z to give notice of its intention to withdraw his overdraft
facility and close his account. This was followed by a default notice in October 2018, which
said that unless satisfactory payment of the overdraft debt was made, or an arrangement
made to repay it, further action would be taken. Mr Z was then sent a formal demand letter in
November 2018.
As no arrangement to repay the overdraft had been agreed, Mr Zs account was transferred
to RBS recoveries team. Mr Z said that he hadnt received the letters RBS had sent him
about his account. RBS then agreed to review Mr Zs income and expenditure details. It
discussed a repayment arrangement with him in a phone call in March 2019, and he
confirmed that he would be able to pay £100 a month towards the debt. This was to be
reviewed after six months.
However, Mr Z complained when he became aware that RBS had applied a default on his
account, and this was registered on his credit file. He said that it had applied this after hed
agreed the repayment plan with it.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He felt
it was unlikely that all the letters RBS had sent Mr Z had gone missing, and the default had
been discussed with Mr Z in a phone call before it was applied. Although he felt RBS
couldve explained the default process to Mr Z more clearly, he didnt think it was wrong to
apply it.
Mr Z didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that the credit reference agency had
told him RBS had updated his credit record with the default after the date his payment plan
had been agreed.
The investigator reviewed this and said that, although he agreed that the default had been
applied correctly, he now considered it shouldve been registered earlier than March 2019.
He said that he believed the default should be backdated to November 2018  the date of
action set out in the default notice.
But Mr Z said that he didnt receive this notice. He said that the Information Commissioners
Office website said that a default normally occurs three to six months after the terms of a
credit agreement have not been met. He said didnt accept that it shouldve been registered
in November and felt he shouldve been given extra time by RBS because of his
circumstances. He said RBS had given incorrect times about when information is recorded
on a credit file and asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
RBS said that Mr Zs account was not in a debit position until his overdraft was removed,
and this was completed when Mr Zs account was transferred to its recoveries department in
December 2018. It said the account defaulted after Mr Zs account had been in a debit
position for three months in March 2019. RBS didnt agree that the default should be
backdated.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. In summary, I said I 
didnt think it should be upheld. 
I said that I could see that Mr Z believed that the default shouldnt have been registered 
because a six-month payment arrangement had been discussed on 27 March 2019, before 
the default was registered on 31 March 2019. And RBS believed that this date was correct 
considering the circumstances of its reasons for withdrawing Mr Zs overdraft facility.
An overdraft can be repayable on demand. And, after considering Mr Zs circumstances,
RBS made the decision to withdraw Mr Zs overdraft facility and request repayment of the
balance.
I said that although I appreciated Mr Z didnt receive the default notice and formal demand 
letters from RBS, his account notes showed that he called RBS in October 2018, which was 
after he received the letter giving him notice of the closure of his account. He asked to speak 
to the person whod sent him that letter. This letter warned him that information may be 
reported to credit reference agencies. The default was also discussed with him in December 
2018, when RBS agreed to send out a letter for his income and expenditure details, so that it 
could look at how it could support Mr Z. However, it didnt appear that these were returned to 
RBS, although he spoke with it again in January 2019 about another matter.
Because of this, I said I thought it was reasonable to say that Mr Z wouldve been aware of 
the situation with his account, and that hed spoken with RBS about this, even if he didnt 
receive the default or formal demand letters that were sent to his home address.
I said there had been some confusion and differing information about when RBS wouldve 
told the credit reference agencies about Mr Zs default, and whether this was before or after 
the phone call about the proposal to pay £100 a month towards the debts. I could 
understand that this will have been a cause of frustration for Mr Z and led him to doubt that 
the default had been applied correctly or appropriately.
I listened to the recording of the call where this was discussed. The called itself related to
Mr Zs business account and loan. Hed sent in some medical information and RBS found
that this had been attached to the file records for his personal account, rather than the
business account and loan.But this discussion was more about what Mr Zs business could afford to pay, rather than
what he could personally afford. Although this discussion happened a few days before the 
default was registered on Mr Zs personal account, at that stage the payment arrangement 
hadnt been accepted by RBS as it hadnt yet received this letter. RBS then confirmed 
acceptance of this payment proposal in a letter dated April 2019. The payments were to be 
credited to Mr Zs business loan account, rather than his personal current account.
Overall, I said I thought Mr Z was given appropriate notice and wouldve been aware of the
situation with his personal account, and that RBS had requested that it be repaid. I 
acknowledged Mr Zs circumstances at the time and the impact this had on his personal and
business finances. However, given this situation and the support RBS had looked to provide
Mr Z with, it seemed that it wouldve been difficult for him to have been in a position to avoid
the default on his account when it was closed and formal demand for the repayment of the
overdraft had been issued.
I said that while I understood Mr Zs strength of feeling about the registering of the default on 
his personal account, I didnt think RBS should be required to make any amendments
to his credit file when this reflected how he maintained it. RBS has a responsibility to report
accurate and up-to-date information to credit reference agencies, and I thought thats
what it had done.
The responses
Neither RBS nor Mr Z replied with any final points or additional information in response to my 
provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there were no further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman