DRN-2851866
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as National & Provincial) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in late 1988, which came into effect in 
1989. Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract 
interest. It covered Mr F, in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr and Mrs F and Santander a provisional decision on 21 April 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage application had a section for insurance. It looks like the only 
insurance that was compulsory was buildings insurance. PPI was listed under a heading for 
other insurances that were also available if Mr and Mrs F wanted them. There was a box that 
could be ticked if they wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if they didnt want it. The box 
was ticked, and Mr and Mrs F signed the form to confirm their choices. It looks like in order 
to get the policy, they would also need to have signed and submitted an application 
specifically for PPI  separately to applying for the lending itself.
I understand Mr and Mrs F recall being given the impression that PPI was compulsory, but 
as far as I can see it was displayed as optional. Ive also kept in mind that memories can 
fade over time, and this sale was particularly long ago. It might be that their recollection is 
based on being told that buildings insurance was compulsory. Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Santanders sales from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr and 
Mrs F were misled here. So I think its most likely that Santander made Mr and Mrs F aware 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Santander if it did recommend it, so to be as fair to Mr and 
Mrs F as possible, Ive assumed it did. That means Santander had to check the policy was 
right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr F was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his 
work benefits and most likely covered him for much longer  up to two years in any one 
claim. And Mr and Mrs F had only limited savings. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and 
Mrs F fell behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI could have 
really been useful for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs F about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs F chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr F wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs F in 
case something went wrong. And the policy was competitively priced given how much it 
would pay out in a claim. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put 
them off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Mr and Mrs F made some 
further comments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F pointed out that their mortgage was with National & Provincial, not Santander. 
To clarify, National & Provincial is now Santander, so when I refer to Santander Im also 
talking about National & Provincial.
Mr and Mrs F reiterated that they recalled being told that if they didnt take out PPI, they 
wouldnt get their mortgage. They said they didnt recall PPI being optional or having a 
separate application form, and said they didnt still have a copy of such a form. They said 
just because a box was ticked, it didnt necessarily mean they were given a choice.
I understand where theyre coming from. But as I explained in the provisional decision, their 
National & Provincial mortgage application did indeed offer them a choice: if they wanted 
PPI they could tick a box to take it, or if they didnt want it they could just leave the box 
blank. The PPI was not compulsory  only buildings insurance was. Its recorded on the 
application that Mr and Mrs F wanted PPI, and they signed the application to confirm 
everything on it. 
Its understandable that neither side still have Mr and Mrs Fs separate PPI application, given 
all the time thats passed. Its also understandable if Mr and Mrs F dont still recall choosing 
PPI, given that buying insurance is not often memorable, that memories can and do fade 
over time, and that this sale was particularly long ago. But from the sample documents Ive 
seen from the time of Mr and Mrs Fs sale, it does look like they would need to have signed 
and submitted an application specifically for PPI in order to get it.
Further, as I said before, Ive not seen any wider problems with Santanders sales process 
from the time. And while I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs F have given us their best 
recollections, I do have to bear in mind that this sale was many years ago. Importantly, 
I dont have any evidence which substantiates that they were misled into buying PPI. 
Whereas the evidence from the time does indicate that the PPI was not compulsory, that it 
was displayed as optional, and that Mr and Mrs F chose to take it. So after considering their 
comments carefully, I still think its most likely that Santander made Mr and Mrs F aware they 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Ive not found any other reason to say that the policy was mis-sold. So after reconsidering 
everything, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman