DRN-3178111
The complaint
Miss B complains that she had to chase Society of Lloyds for money that they owed her.
What happened
Miss B brought a previous complaint to us about the way Society of Lloyds (SoL) had 
handled a claim she made under her marine insurance policy.
In October 2018, we made a decision on that complaint and instructed SoL to pay the claim. 
We also said they should pay interest to Miss B on the amount of the claim at 8% simple 
from the date of the claim to the date payment was made.
In June 2020, Miss B contacted SoL to say that whilst the claim had been settled  shortly 
after our decision was published - the intertest hadnt been paid.
SoL agreed that Miss B should have received around £20,000 in interest when the claim was 
settled, but she hadnt in fact received any interest at all.
SoLs underwriters apologised for the mistake and said theyd re-calculated the interest on 
the payment up to the date they eventually paid it. The interest now came to just over 
£33,300, which was paid to Miss B a few days after she raised the query in June 2020.
They also paid Miss B £100 in compensation for the inconvenience shed experienced in 
having to chase them for the payment.
Miss B wasnt happy with this outcome and brought a complaint to us. She felt the 
compensation offered wasnt sufficient given the amount of time shed been without the 
interest SoL should have paid her.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think SoL had done anything wrong given that 
theyd paid Miss B interest on the settlement sum to cover the whole period between the 
claim first being made and the date they eventually paid the interest to Miss B.
Miss B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will disappoint Miss B but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
SoL have clearly made  and admitted to  an error in the way they settled Miss Bs claim 
after our decision in October 2018.
Miss B thinks they intentionally withheld the interest payment, in the hope she might not 
notice, but I dont see any evidence to suggest thats the case.
Theyve now paid interest  at 8% simple  from the day of the initial claim to the date in 
June 2020 when they paid Miss B the interest (the c.£33,300) on the full settlement sum 
(which was around £165,000).
That appears to me to be fair and reasonable, if not generous. As our previous decision said, 
it was right Miss B was paid interest on the full amount of the claim up to the point SoL paid 
it (in early 2019, as I understand it). Thats because Miss B had been deprived of that money 
(around £165,000), due to SoLs unfair (in our view) handling of her claim, up until the date 
the claim was paid.
SoL made an error when they made that payment, forgetting to add the interest, but from 
that point onwards, Miss B hasnt been deprived of the full settlement amount, shes been 
deprived of the £20,00 or so in interest she should have been paid at the same time.
Had they calculated things another way, SoL might have been justified in paying Miss B 
interest on the full settlement sum up to early 2019 (around £20,000) and then interest only 
on the £20,000 or so (which she was still owed) up until the point they finally paid the interest 
in June 2020.
Being paid the 8% interest on the full settlement sum up to June 2020, when Miss B in fact 
had that sum (the c.£165,000) in early 2019, in my view adequately compensates Miss B for 
her inconvenience in having to chase SoL for the interest.
In any case, the interest payments we require financial businesses to make, in some of the 
cases we investigate, are awarded to compensate the customer for being deprived of the 
money in question for the relevant period of time. 
Miss Bs argument now is that she deserves additional compensation  and thats because 
she hasnt had the money (the interest) for a period of time. Im sure Miss B will see that 
means in effect shes asking us to instruct SoL to compensate her twice over for the same 
thing.
I note that SoL also offered a further £100 in compensation to Miss B. Given what Ive said 
above, I wouldnt instruct them to do that, but Miss B can contact SoL if she wishes to ask 
them whether that offer still stands.
I should stress, in summary, that SoL did make an error in this case. And that did impact 
Miss B by depriving her of a large sum of money (around £20,000) that SoL owed her, for a 
significant period of time. 
Im sorry that Miss B suffered that experience  and that she had to chase SoL herself to 
bring their error to their attention. I can see why Miss B was annoyed, frustrated and 
stressed by this chain of events.
But I am satisfied that SoLs response, when Miss B contacted them to advise them of their 
error, was entirely fair and reasonable. They paid Miss B interest on the whole settlement 
sum for the whole period between the claim and the final payment in June 2020. And Im 
satisfied that was sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset Miss B was caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman