DRN-3927154
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly lent 
to him.
What happened
Mr D opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in 2012 with an initial credit limit of 
£400. His credit limit was increased several times over the course of the agreement. 
Mr D says that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly by providing him with the credit card and 
when it increased his limit. He says if Barclaycard had done adequate checks on his 
situation it would have seen that he wouldnt be able to repay his balance in a reasonable 
length of time. 
Barclaycard says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr D and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr D  and when it increased his credit limit. Barclaycard didnt agree that 
this service could look at Mr Ds complaint as it said hed brought it out of time under the 
rules we have to apply.
 
Our adjudicator agreed that we couldnt look at much of the lending. But we could look at the 
last credit limit increase applied in February 2016. So this decision only relates to that credit 
limit increase.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ds complaint about that credit limit increase should be 
upheld. On the basis of the information available to them, they thought Barclaycard ought 
reasonably to have thought there was an indication the credit was unaffordable for Mr D.
Barclaycard disagreed. It said that Mr D had been able to pay off a large amount of external 
credit shortly after that increase, intimating that he had access to other funds. It argued, 
among other things, that this showed that the credit it provided to Mr D must have been 
affordable. 
Our adjudicator explained why they didnt think Barclaycards rebuttal made a difference. As 
Barclaycard still disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ds complaint.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ds income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Barclaycard should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include 
things like understanding Mr Ds income, the total amount Mr D borrowed, and the length of 
time Mr D had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
As I have explained, I am only looking at the last credit limit increase. Mr Ds credit limit was 
increased from £4,000 to £7,000.
I think this was a significant increase and that Barclaycard should have made sure Mr D was 
able to sustainably repay it if he used the full credit available to him. 
Barclaycard said it did this by looking at data supplied by Transunion  a credit reporting 
agency  and by looking at Mr Ds history of repayments on the credit card to date. 
I dont think this was sufficient for Barclaycard to be confident Mr D could afford the increase 
in credit. I think it ought to have done more checks; at the very least it ought to have made 
checks on Mr Ds income and expenditure.
 
Mr Ds sole income was from a state pension and pension credits. Mr Ds bank account was 
with Barclays, so it had easy access to information about Mr Ds financial circumstances. Mr 
D has provided copies of his bank statements from February 2016, and I can see that he 
had a monthly income of around £920. Taking into account his regular monthly commitments 
and the very minimum he would have had to pay towards his existing credit card 
commitments to sustainably repay those debts, he would have had a disposable income of 
around £261 a month. This hasnt taken into account payments he made to a catalogue 
shopping account or for food. There is also no payment for council tax and I think this is 
likely to be because if Mr D paid in instalments they would have been made over 10 months 
of the year, with no payments in February or March. 
 
The bank statements show that Mr D was in his overdraft for 17 days of the month. At the 
end of the month, he was overdrawn by £484, with an overdraft limit of £500. His other bank 
statements show a similar pattern of being in overdraft more often than in credit. 
I think this shows that Mr D was unlikely to be able to make sustainable repayments on the 
additional borrowing. The information about Mr Ds day-to-day income and expenditure was 
within easy reach for Barclaycard. With that in mind, I think reasonable and proportionate 
checks are likely to have demonstrated that Mr D would not have been able to make his 
repayments sustainably over a reasonable period of time on the increased credit limit. 
Barclaycard has told this service we should investigate how Mr D was able to pay off a 
substantial amount of external debt which showed up on its credit checks a few months later. 
It says that Mr D must have had access to other funds elsewhere, which might mean its 
decision to increase his credit limit was acceptable. There is some dispute as to whether this 
was an incorrect entry on the credit data as Mr D has no knowledge of the sum concerned or 
how it was allegedly paid off, and he provides some evidence to support this. This matter of the repayment is a red herring. It has no relevance to my decision, and it is 
disappointing to see Barclaycard suggest that an event several months after its decision to 
increase the credit limit has any bearing on that decision. Even if Mr D had paid off a 
substantial sum  which he says he does not remember doing - this could have come from 
any source  an inheritance, a gift, or even a lottery win. I have seen no evidence to suggest 
Mr D had additional resources hidden elsewhere in February 2016 which might be relevant 
to Barclaycards decision to lend to him. The simple fact is, if Barclaycard cant identify 
where those funds came from, it couldnt possibly suggest it used its knowledge of them to 
support its decision to lend to him in the first place. And if the credit data Barclaycard used 
was incorrect, this is not Mr Ds fault  I still think that even if he wasnt making regular 
payments to that external credit card he could not afford the additional borrowing 
Barclaycard gave him.
I think Barclaycard didnt act fairly when it increased Mr Ds credit limit because it didnt 
make appropriate and proportionate checks to ensure he could repay it sustainably. I think 
Mr D lost out as a result.
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Mr Ds credit limit from £4,000 to £7,000, 
I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded 
that limit. However, Mr D has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I 
think he should pay this back. Therefore, I direct Barclaycard to:
Refund all the interest and charges Mr D has paid on balances above £4,000
If the borrowing is still in place, Barclaycard should reduce the outstanding 
balance by the amount calculated in the step 1 above.
If, after step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Barclaycard 
should ensure that it isnt subject to any future or historic interest and/or 
charges. But if step 2 lead to a positive balance, the amount in question 
should be given back to Mr D and 8% simple interest* should be added to the 
surplus.
Barclaycard should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds 
credit file as a result of the interest and charges.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to pay 
compensation as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sally AllbeuryOmbudsman