DRN-2372824
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund him transactions he says he didnt 
make or authorise. Hes also unhappy that HSBC closed his account.
What happened
Mr K had a current account with HSBC. Between 2 and 20 May 2019 Mr K says that multiple 
transactions totalling just under £8,000 were carried out on his account without his consent.
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute.
Mr K says in March 2019 he was the victim of a robbery and a bag containing all his banking 
details and driving licence was stolen. He said the robbers then used his bank card to make 
fraudulent transactions on his account. Mr K told HSBC what had happened, and the bank 
refunded the money taken out of his account to him. Mr K says following this incident he told 
the bank not to send out a new bank card. 
 
Mr K says he went on holiday and when he returned to the UK, he discovered multiple cash 
withdrawals, had been made on his account. He reported this to the bank. Mr K says when 
he spoke to HSBC, he found out that the bank had sent a new bank card and PIN to his 
address in April 2019. He says he never requested these, didnt receive the card and PIN 
and didnt make the transactions. He wants HSBC to refund the transactions.
 
Mr Ks also unhappy that HSBC closed his account without notice. He says this caused him 
a good deal of inconvenience as he had no time to rearrange his direct debits.
HSBC said it hadnt done anything wrong when it closed Mr Ks account. And had done so in 
line with the terms and conditions. HSBC investigated Mr Ks fraud claim and decided not to 
refund the disputed transactions to him. It said Mr K had either made the transactions 
himself or allowed someone else to make them. In summary they said:
Mr Ks genuine card and PIN were used to make each transaction
Mr K had called to request a new card and PIN  stating his card wasnt working
The person who called the bank to request a new bank card and PIN and report the 
fraud was the same person
This person whod asked for a new bank card was able to clear the banks security 
process and provide information about Mr K and his account
A new bank card and PIN were sent in plain envelopes, days apart
The new bank card had to be activated via an automated security system and 
personal information about Mr K was required to complete the activation process
Funds were withdrawn over a number of weeks which was unusual for a fraudster
There were no failed PIN attempts when the transactions took place
Mr K hadnt offered a plausible explanation for how someone was able to intercept 
both his bank card, PIN and obtain banking information about his account
Unhappy with this response Mr K brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into his complaint. She looked at the banks technical evidence, listened 
to recordings of the phone calls between the bank and the person whod called to request a 
new bank card and PIN for Mr Ks account, and what Mr K had said about events. Having 
done so she concluded it was most likely Mr K had made the transactions or allowed 
someone else to make them. She also said the bank hadnt done anything wrong when it 
closed Mr Ks account.
Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Both Mr K and HSBC have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr K that 
Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence. And listened to all the relevant call 
recordings.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Having reviewed Metros technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ks card details were used 
to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. But, the regulations 
relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable HSBC to hold Mr K 
liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr K consented to the transactions being made or whether he is the 
victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence, despite what Mr K has said, Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not that Mr K did consent to the transactions he is disputing. I say this because:
HSBCs technical records show the transactions were made using Mr Ks genuine 
card and PIN. So, Im satisfied that whoever made the transactions was able to do so 
because they had both Mr Ks card and knew his PIN
Mr K has suggested that he never requested or received a new bank card and PIN. 
But most post is correctly delivered, and so I think it more likely than not that Mr Ks 
new bank card and PIN did arrive safely at his home address
Ive not seen any evidence that anyone else wouldve known the bank had sent Mr K 
a new bank card and PIN, so I think its unlikely they were intercepted by someone 
looking out for them
HSBC has explained that Mr Ks new bank card and PIN were sent separately, in 
plain white envelopes. So, Im not persuaded that an unknown third party managed 
to intercept both Mr Ks card and PIN
during all the calls between HSBC and the person who said he was Mr K, the caller, 
was able to provide information to the bank advisors such as Mr Ks mobile phone 
number, overdraft limit, date of birth and memorable password. Theres no plausible 
explanation for how an unknown third party could have known this information
the new bank card was activated via the banks automated security system, which 
required Mr Ks banking information and date of birthhaving listened to the call recordings between the bank and Mr K when he called to 
report the disputed transactions, Im satisfied that it was Mr K who called the bank on 
19 April on two occasions to let the bank know his card wasnt working and order a 
new bank card and PIN.
the disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster 
would try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit 
from the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the 
card is cancelled. But this didnt happen
Mr K says he couldnt have made the disputed transactions as he was on holiday 
abroad. And hes provided the investigator with evidence he says supports this. Ive 
looked at the information Mr Ks sent to us, and it shows Mr K went on holiday on 25 
May 2019, which was after the disputed transactions were made from his account. 
So, Im not satisfied that the evidence provided by Mr K demonstrates he couldnt 
have made the disputed transactions
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. In my view 
the most likely explanation here is that Mr K made the disputed transactions himself.  So, in 
the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask HSBC to refund Mr K the disputed 
transactions. 
HSBC was entitled to close Mr Ks account at any time on giving two months notice; in some 
circumstances it could do so without notice. HSBC closed Mr Ks immediately. In my view 
that was reasonable given the concerns it had about how Mr K was operating his account. 
So, whilst I appreciate this caused Mr K inconvenience in having to rearrange his direct 
debits, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong when it closed his account without 
notice. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman