DRN-3026298
The complaint
This complaint is brought by the estate of Mr C, represented by his wife and daughter  Mrs 
C and Ms C. The complaint is that a long-term holiday ownership scheme was 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs C and that, because it was financed by credit provided by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (through its Barclaycard arm), Barclays is equally liable with the 
seller.
What happened
In or about 2000 Mr and Mrs C bought a Holiday Ownership Interest from a company which 
Ill call M. The price was £7,500 and annual maintenance fees were also due.
Mr and Mrs C cancelled their membership in or about September 2015.
In February 2017 Mr and Mrs Cs representatives wrote to Barclaycard. They said they also 
represented Mr and Mrs Cs daughters  including Ms C  who had been named on some of 
the paperwork. They said that M had misrepresented the holiday ownership scheme in a 
number of respects and in breach of consumer protection legislation. They claimed 
compensation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. They said too that the 
actions of M meant that the credit agreement created an unfair relationship and that their 
clients were entitled to relief under sections 104A and 104B of the same act.
Barclaycard said that it was unable to locate any credit card account which had been used to 
finance the transaction and so was unable to assist. It did identify that there was an account 
in the name of Mr C, but it was unable to locate the credit card payment which Mr and Mrs C 
say was made to M.
The complaint was therefore referred to this service. Unfortunately, Mr C passed away in 
April 2020. Mrs C and Ms C were named in his will as executors of his estate, along with a 
solicitor from the firm which prepared the will.
Our investigator considered the complaint but agreed with Barclaycard that there was 
insufficient evidence of the payment of £7,500 having been made with Mr Cs credit card. He 
took the view therefore that he could not properly recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
The solicitors who were by this point acting for the estate of Mr C asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
I did that and issued a provisional decision. I said that I had done so on the assumption that 
Mrs C and Miss C had a grant of probate showing that they represented the estate, but I 
indicated that I would need to see that if it were necessary to take the matter any further. As 
far as the merits of the complaint itself were concerned, I said:
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act is that, where a credit card is used to 
pay for a transaction, the cardholder can, subject to certain conditions, bring a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against the card provider. Those conditions include:
The credit card was used to finance the transaction, either in whole or in part.
The payment was made to the supplier of the goods or services, or to an associate of 
the supplier.
The cardholder has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the 
supplier. 
The cash price attached to any single item is more than £100 but not more than 
£30,000.
Our investigator took the view that it had not been shown in this case that the first of these 
conditions had been met. That is, it was not clear that a credit card in Mr Cs name and 
issued by Barclaycard had been used to make the £7,500 payment to M. It was not 
necessary therefore to consider whether the other conditions applied.
In support of the estates case, Mrs C and Ms C have provided a copy of a document, on Ms 
headed paper, dated 8 March 2000 and headed Credit Card Payment Authorisation Form. 
It appears to have been sent by fax, so is faint, but does include a card number ending in 
**** 4005 and authority to take a payment of £7,500 from the card account. The document 
also appears to have been signed by Mrs C as the cardholder and indicates that the card 
was a Visa Barclaycard which expired in May 2001. I note however that Barclaycard said 
that its customer was Mr C.
Barclaycard has checked its own records against the card number provided. Those records 
appear to show that the card number was purged in September 2001. They do not show the 
name that was on that card or any transactions that were made using the card account. A 
search against Mr Cs name shows four other accounts dating back to 1981. They do not 
include a card account with a number ending in **** 4005.
In my view, therefore, there is some evidence that a card issued by Barclays and with a 
number ending **** 4005 was used to pay for the holiday ownership scheme  namely, the 
payment authorisation form. I am not persuaded however that it shows that Mr C was the 
cardholder. If anything, the fact that Mrs C signed the form as cardholder indicates that it is 
more likely that she was the cardholder. If that is the case, it follows that the estate of Mr C 
cannot properly bring a claim against Barclaycard under section 75  or at all. 
It is possible that the card account was in Mr Cs name and that Mrs C was an additional 
cardholder. I have however seen no evidence of that and mention it only as a possible 
explanation for her signature on the payment authority.
There are however other matters which I should mention and which may be relevant if 
further evidence about the payment comes to light.
The evidence about the underlying claim is, in my view, very weak. The letter of February 
2017, in which the claims were set out, is not specific in identifying what statements were 
made that were untrue. Rather, it makes general accusations and allegations  for example, 
that the resort owner failed to ensure compliance and due diligence, failed in his duty of care 
to Mr and Mrs C, and misrepresented the product. I should point out that Mr and Mrs Cs 
representatives were, at that  stage, not the same firm as that which now represents the 
estate.
It is, perhaps, understandable that the evidence is not strong. The claim letter was written 
some 17 years after the contract was entered into. Generally, claims made that long after the 
events giving rise to them would be time-barred under the Limitation Act 1980. Our own 
rules do not generally allow us to consider a complaint made more than six years after the 
event complained of. The reasons for such rules include that written evidence can go missing and the recollection of witnesses becomes less reliable. That does appear to have 
happened in this case.
The complaint in this case is that Barclaycard did not respond fairly to the claims made in 
February 2017; it is not about the sale of the holiday product itself. The complaint about 
Barclaycards response has therefore been brought within the relevant time limits set out in 
our rules.
Be that as it may, if further evidence about the payment were to emerge, I would need to 
consider the likely effect of any time limits on the underlying misrepresentation claim against 
the seller. And I might take the view that it would not be fair, given the passage of time, to 
hold Barclaycard liable under section 75. My current view however is that the estate of Mr C 
has not shown that his card was used to make the purchase and that Barclaycards 
response to the section 75 claim was therefore reasonable. 
In response to my provisional decision, the solicitors acting for the estate said that no grant 
of probate had been sought because there was no property involved and the estate had 
been finalised. In the circumstances  and as Mrs C and Miss C were both named in the will 
 I am satisfied that I can continue with my consideration of the case even though there is no 
grant of probate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has however made any further submissions in response to my provisional 
decision. I do not believe therefore that there is any reason for me to reach a different 
conclusion. I remain of the view that Barclaycards response to the claim was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank PLC to take any further action to 
resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman