DRN-1726844
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he got from British Gas Insurance Limited after he made a 
claim on his home emergency policy.
What happened
On 2 May 2019, Mr S noticed a drain in his garden was overflowing. He called British Gas to 
make a claim. The call handler told Mr S an engineer would be there as soon as possible 
and hopefully, before midnight. Mr S got a text from British Gas which said his appointment 
had been booked for between 8pm and 23.59pm.
Mr S said he called British Gas several times during the evening and was told hed be called 
back with a more accurate timeframe. The engineer hadnt arrived by midnight. He said he 
spoke to British Gas at around half past midnight and was told that an engineer might not be 
able to get there until around 7am. 
So Mr S checked into a hotel with his family. British Gas engineer called Mr S at around 
1am, but Mr S told him not to come at that point, as no-one was at home. The engineer 
came out the following day.
Mr S complained to British Gas about the service hed received. He said hed been told an 
engineer would be with him by midnight. And due to the lack of toilet facilities at home, hed 
felt he and his family had had no choice but to check into a hotel. He asked British Gas to 
refund him the cost of the hotel room.
British Gas didnt agree to refund the hotel costs. It said itd told Mr S it would do its best to 
be with him by midnight, but job lengths vary. It paid him £30 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr S 
wasnt happy with British Gas response, so he asked us to look into his complaint. He told 
us his wife had been in hospital earlier that day.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. She said the policy terms 
required British Gas to carry out repairs within a reasonable time. The policy didnt 
guarantee a definite timeframe. She didnt think Mr S had let British Gas know about his 
wifes hospital visit. And given the engineer called Mr S about an hour after midnight, she 
didnt think the delay was unreasonable.
Mr S disagreed. He said hed made multiple calls to British Gas and had been told hed be 
given more accurate timings for attendance. But he hadnt had any call backs. He told us 
hed found out that the first call handler should have told him that the engineer might not 
arrive until 7am. He said if hed been given the right information at the start, he couldve 
made arrangements for himself and his family to use toilet facilities elsewhere, or stay with 
family and friends. But by the time he found out that the engineer might not be there until 
7am, it was too late. He said hed  had no choice but to book into the hotel. So he thinks its 
only right that British Gas reimburses the cost of it.The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think British Gas has 
treated Mr S fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr S policy with British Gas to check what 
service British Gas offers. It states:
'Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
The policy doesnt define what a reasonable time is. And it doesnt give a definite timeframe 
in which British Gas needs to make sure repairs or visits are completed. It seems Mr S made 
a claim at around 8pm on 2 May 2019. An engineer called him at around 1am on 3 May 
2019 to let him know he was on his way. I think, given Mr S circumstances, five hours is a 
reasonable time for an engineer to visit his home. And the engineer ultimately visited the 
following day. So I think British Gas met its obligations under the policy terms.
I know Mr S feels strongly that British Gas led him to believe that hed receive a visit by 
midnight. So Ive listened carefully to the call Mr S made to British Gas to make his claim. 
The call was made at around 8pm. Mr S asked the call handler if he could give any 
timeframe for the engineer to come out. The call handler said, should be before midnight 
but we cant give you any guarantees. The call handler later told Mr S an engineer would be 
there as soon as we can. 
So while I agree the call handler told Mr S an engineer shouldve been with him by midnight, 
I think he made it clear that this wasnt guaranteed. And I think this shouldve prompted Mr S 
to realise that the engineer might get there after midnight. I appreciate he then got a text to 
say his appointment was booked for between 8pm and 11.59pm, but I dont think this 
superseded what hed been told by the call handler. I think the call handler had been clear 
that the timeframe hed given wasnt definite.
Mr S told us he made multiple calls to British Gas throughout that evening to chase up when 
the engineer would arrive. And he told us he was ultimately told the engineer might not get 
there until 7am at around half past midnight. At that point, he chose to check into a hotel with 
his family. 
I asked British Gas to send me a log of its call records, so I could look into the calls Mr S had 
made and see what hed been told by the call handlers. British Gas told us it cant find any 
follow up calls Mr S made, or any records to show he was told an engineer might not be able 
to get to him until 7am. Its possible Mr S mightve been calling a different number, or that 
the call handlers just  didnt make notes. But there are simply no records from the time to 
suggest Mr S didnt get call backs he was promised, or that he was told British Gas wouldnt 
get to him until 7am. 
While I appreciate Mr S wife had been taken ill, British Gas call handler asked Mr S about 
any vulnerabilities in his household when Mr S first made the claim. Mr S answered, no, not 
especially. So it wouldnt be fair for me to hold British Gas responsible for not being aware 
of this, or failing to prioritise the job on this basis.Overall, I think British Gas dealt with Mr S claim in line with the policy terms and I think it 
treated him fairly. So I wont be telling British Gas to pay him anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman