DRN-3656435
The complaint
Miss L complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Opolo CF Limited trading as 1st Stop Car Finance Limited (Opolo).
What happened
In November 2019 Miss L acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Opolo.
Miss L says around a month after she acquired the car, it had to be taken back to the 
dealership as a mount and shock absorbers had been incorrectly fitted. The dealer repaired 
these items at no cost to Miss L. 
In July 2021 Miss L received a recall notice from the manufacturer for the condition of the 
brake vacuum pump and the timing belt to be checked. Miss L booked her car in for review, 
however in August 2021, prior to this review taking place, the car broke down and had to be 
towed to a garage by a recovery company. The recovery company noted fault codes relating 
to the cam belt, and Miss L said they told her the break down mightve been caused by the 
recall issue. 
Miss L said she contacted the dealership a number of times in August and September 2021, 
she then complained to the dealership and they told her there was a known fault with the 
engine, but the manufacturer had refused to fix it. Miss L was given a quote of around 
£3,000 for repairs. 
In September 2021 Miss L complained to Opolo about the quality of the vehicle. She said the 
dealership had told her the engine was faulty and so she stopped making her monthly 
repayments. 
Opolo sent Miss L their final response to her complaint in November 2021. They said there 
was no evidence that the fault was present or developing at the point of sale, so they 
wouldnt accept rejection of the vehicle. They didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint, but said if she 
provided an independent inspection, theyd look at her case again. 
Unhappy with this, Miss L brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said 
shed been told the car had a faulty engine, and so the agreement should be terminated. 
Miss L said shed had to fund another car as shed received no updates about her vehicle, 
and the courtesy car provided by the dealership was too small and not fit for purpose. 
Our investigator gave her view that although the timing belt was due to be checked as part of 
the recall, there was no evidence that there was a defective part on Miss Ls car. She said 
not all cars recalled will be faulty, and Miss Ls car was within the timeframe where a timing 
belt might reasonably need to be replaced. So, she thought the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the time it was supplied to Miss L and didnt ask Opolo to do anything more. 
Miss L didnt agree, she said shes been told the car had a faulty engine, it had to be 
repaired a month after she got it which has been overlooked, and she didnt agree the fault 
was due to wear and tear. Miss L said she wasnt in a position financially to pay for a car that 
she hasnt had access to for over a year. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that Opolo arent responsible for everything that might happen to Miss 
Ls car whilst its under the hire purchase agreement. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA), they are responsible for the goods being of satisfactory quality. This means that at 
the time the goods are supplied, they need to meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory. 
What a reasonable person would consider satisfactory will take account of any description of 
the goods, the price, and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, 
will include things like the age and mileage of the car. 
When Miss L acquired the car, it was around four years old and had travelled around 51,000 
miles. At the time of the fault in July 2021, it was around six years old and had travelled 
around 76,000 miles. 
When a person acquires a used car like Miss Ls its reasonable to say that the expectation 
of quality is lower than that of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price 
for the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The 
chance of encountering a serious issue sooner, is higher. 
Miss L said that her vehicle had to be repaired around a month after she acquired it, and she 
felt this had been overlooked. The early fault with the vehicle related to an incorrectly fitted 
mount and shock absorbers and was repaired. I havent seen any evidence to show this 
repair failed, or that its linked to the current fault with Miss Ls vehicle. So, Im satisfied that 
the faults were repaired, and Miss L received an appropriate remedy under the CRA. 
Miss Ls car had to be recovered after it broke down, and the recovery company noted 
stored fault codes in relation to the timing belt (cam belt). The dealership confirmed that the 
car has suffered engine failure, however theres no evidence of the cause of this engine 
failure. 
Miss L says the fault is related to the recall notice and theres a defect with the engine. The 
recall notice for Miss Ls car consists of checking the condition of the brake vacuum pump 
and the timing belt and if needed, replacing them. 
Whilst the recall notice deals with checking the timing belt, and the recovery report confirms 
stored fault codes in relation to the timing belt, Im not persuaded that the current fault with 
Miss Ls car is related to the recall notice. 
The recall notice is for a check of parts to be undertaken and repaired if necessary. Not all 
vehicles recalled will be faulty or require repairs. The dealership have provided details of 
Miss Ls vehicle to the manufacturer, and they have refused to complete any repairs under 
the recall notice, suggesting that the recall notice is not the sole reason for the issues Miss L 
has encountered with the vehicle. 
Miss Ls car had covered around 76,000 miles at the time of the fault. A timing belt is 
generally expected to last anywhere from 60,000 to 100,000 miles. So, whilst Miss Ls car was at the earlier end of this timeframe, it was still within the typical timeframe when repairs 
to or replacement of the timing belt might reasonably be expected. So, Im not persuaded 
that the current fault automatically made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied to Miss L.
Satisfactory quality also includes an element of durability. That is, the components of the car 
can be expected to function without any significant issue or problem for a reasonable period 
of time. Miss L had around a year and eight months and around 25,000 miles without any 
significant issue or problem. I think this would be considered a reasonable period of time for 
a car which was four years old when it was purchased, and so I find there was no durability 
issue with the car when it was supplied. 
I think, that at six years old and having covered 76,000 miles, Miss Ls car was around the 
age when a reasonable person might start to expect that some relatively serious repairs may 
be needed. Whilst this is unfortunate, it is the risk of owning a second-hand car. I appreciate 
that having a car that requires extensive repairs is a stressful, and may be an expensive, 
experience for Miss L. That doesnt mean that Opolo are responsible for the cost of repairs.
I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that Miss Ls car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. Therefore, although Miss L has 
experienced a fault with her car, Opolo are not responsible for the cost of repairing the fault, 
or for accepting rejection of Miss Ls car. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman