DRN-2818164
The complaint
Mrs R complained about advice she received in 1994 from an independent financial adviser 
(IFA) to take out a free-standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan with her 
workplace pension. 
Sesame Limited has accepted responsibility for answering this complaint and Mrs R is being 
represented by a claims management company. So, to keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to 
Sesame and Mrs R in my decision.
Mrs R says she wanted to increase her pension provision and the recommendations she 
received from Sesame werent suitable for her. She says if shed been given the right 
information about her options, she would have acted differently, including buying added 
years through her employers in-house occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
Mrs R therefore says she has lost out financially because of this.
What happened
Sesame has already agreed Mrs R wasnt advised correctly. Mrs R was advised to take out 
FSAVCs, whereas Sesame now accepts that if she had taken out in-house AVCs, this 
would have been a better option for her. Sesame has therefore offered to put Mrs R back in 
the position she would have been in if she had taken out in-house AVCs, rather than 
FSAVCs.
One of our investigators comprehensively looked into the complaint and didnt think we 
should uphold it; they explained they thought Sesames offer was fair. However, Mrs R 
believes this offer isnt good enough. She implies she would have been better off still if she 
had bought some added years within her OPS. Her point of complaint is therefore that she 
believes the redress should be re-calculated based on the added years option rather than 
the in-house AVC one put forward by Sesame in its offer.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Sesame has already made a monetary offer to Mrs R to put right what it believes 
shouldnt have happened. The offer compensates Mrs R in as much as it puts her in the 
financial position she would have been in if shed been advised to take out the in-house 
AVC option, rather than FSAVCs.  
So, the central point of this matter is for me to consider whether Mrs R should have been 
advised not only of the in-house AVC option, but also of the added years option within her 
OPS. I then need also to think whether this would have mattered including whether she 
would have acted any differently.
Mrs R had worked for the NHS continually since 1974, and for a short time before that in the 
1960s. She met with an IFA in 1994 and her FSAVC plan was taken out as a consequence 
of that meeting. At this time, she was around 48 years old, employed with an estimated 
annual basic salary of £19,600.00. She joined her OPS in 1988 and was set to retire when 
she turned 60 (in 2006).
Ive looked over all the documents we have with great care. The notes from the time of the 
advice are somewhat limited, although the IFA has told our Service that Mrs R had access to 
her OPSs booklet which would have explained about added years as well as a quote about 
how much other options might cost. Because the notes dont specifically show me evidence 
of this, I cant be sure all this happened, so Ive considered what I know generally about the 
added years option that would most likely have been available at the time. 
Its unfortunate that the notes from the sale meeting in 1994 are fairly brief. But in my view, 
its as likely that added years were discussed  as not. And its also possible that Mrs R 
came to the conclusion that added years werent right for her at that time. Typically, with 
this option, the employee commits to pay either a lump sum or a percentage of their future 
salary into the OPS to buy more years. If it is a percentage, the amount paid will increase as 
the salary increases  the percentage remains the same. I have considered Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time and note her savings were deemed to be low. She also had young 
children and a mortgage endowment that had £25,000 outstanding and was due in around 
three years. 
So, in my view, added years was quite a different option to the other two (FSAVC and AVC) 
in that it provided certain guaranteed benefits. However, it also depended on Mrs Rs salary 
so the final amount of benefit couldnt be known at the beginning. The fact that, as in this 
case, Mrs R remained in her occupation and would have no-doubt enjoyed some salary 
increases doesnt necessarily mean she would have purchased added years. At the time of 
the advice I think added years would also most likely have looked expensive compared to 
the projected returns and benefits of both the AVC options. I think the flexibility, or otherwise, 
of this option would have also been an important consideration for her. So I think it was 
unlikely that she would have wanted to spend a potentially greater amount going forward to 
get the same projected benefits from added years as she could have from a money 
purchase arrangement. 
In summary then, as a starting point it should be remembered that in 1994, when projected 
investment returns were much higher, added years would have seemed expensive 
compared to AVC-type projected returns and benefits. I think it would also have seemed less 
attractive given Mrs Rs particular circumstances of that time. Therefore in view of Sesames 
offer, the main issue here is whether redress should be based on Mrs R buying additional 
years. For me to direct Sesame to pay redress based on this, the facts would need to 
indicate the likelihood that Mrs R would have gone ahead and purchased those years. 
Based on her age, job, family circumstances and the comparatively higher costs (as they 
would have seemed at the time) Im afraid I dont think she would have done this.
Taking all these issues into account, Im not going to ask Sesame to do anything different. I 
think the current offer relating to correcting the FSAVC versus AVC option should stand. Its 
uncertain that added years were discussed, but in any event I think its more likely Mrs R 
wouldnt have wanted to choose this option anyway.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
I do not require Sesame Limited to do anything more than the offer it has already made.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Bunmi Oguntuga
Ombudsman