DRN-3696008
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) incorrectly reported that he had 
arrears on his Buy-to-let mortgage. He says this caused him unnecessary worry and 
inconvenience and he is unhappy with the customer service he received in relation to the 
issue. 
What happened
In August 2021, Mr B was holiday when he received a voicemail from someone at Barclays 
asking him to call in relation to a personal matter. Mr B says the message was unclear and 
he couldnt make out the telephone number given to call back on. He had his Barclaycard 
with him and thought the call might be something to do with that, so he rang Barclaycard.
After eventually getting through to speak to someone, Mr B was informed by the Barclaycard 
representative that the call had nothing to do with Barclaycard. Mr B was concerned about 
the security of his card, but was advised he didnt need to cancel it. 
After returning home, Mr B contacted Barclays again and raised a complaint. He realised 
from correspondence hed received that the voice message had been in relation to arrears 
on his Buy-to-let mortgage, which was incorrect because he had always made his payments 
in full and on time. In October 2021, Barclays issued a final response letter. It conceded the 
arrears should not have been recorded and reported. It apologised, removed the arrears, 
repaired Mr Bs credit file and offered him £300 to reflect what had happened. 
Mr B remained unhappy and contacted Barclays with a view to it increasing its offer of 
compensation. He said that the call he made from abroad alone had cost him nearly £100.  
Barclays didnt increase its offer. Mr B wrote a letter of complaint in December 2021 
complaining about the way things had been handled, including the poor customer service 
hed received. He sent his complaint letter by recorded delivery. 
After not receiving any acknowledgment of his complaint, Mr B rang Barclays in January 
2022 to find out what was happening. The Barclays representative he spoke to said he 
couldnt find any record of the complaint letter, despite Mr B pointing out that the letter had 
been signed for and therefore definitely received. Later in the call, the Barclays 
representative swore at Mr B before putting the phone down on him. 
Unsurprisingly, Mr B was very unhappy and he wrote another letter of complaint, addressed 
to Barclays Chief Executive Officer. In addition to the previous issues hed raised, he 
complained that Barclays hadnt logged or acknowledged the complaint made in December 
2021, despite the letter having been signed for. He was also appalled at how hed been 
spoken to during the last telephone call and said that it wasnt the first time a Barclays 
representative had put the telephone down on him. 
Barclays issued another final response letter in March 2022. It clarified that one of the other 
representatives hadnt put the telephone down on him but that they ought to have called 
Mr B back when the call dropped out. Barclays apologised to Mr B for the poor customer 
service he had received, including being sworn at. It increased the offer of compensation to 
a total of £475.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and referred his concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
He said that what Barclays had done in terms recording and reporting the arrears was 
tantamount to calling him a thief and had caused much unnecessary stress and worry. 
An investigator looked into things and said that, considering everything that had happened, 
Barclays should pay an additional £75 compensation bringing the total to £550. They also 
thought that Barclays should pay an additional £100 to cover the cost of the call Mr B had 
made from abroad, bringing the total amount to £650. Barclays said it accepted the findings. 
Mr B said he agreed with the investigators stance and reasoning, but that he thought the 
amount of compensation should be higher. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. However, I have reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator about the level of compensation that needs to be paid.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
Barclays has accepted it has made a number of mistakes and there are no fundamental 
disputes about whats happened. So the only thing I need to decide is what Barclays needs 
to do to put things right. 
In terms of the level of compensation, this is not an overly scientific exercise, but I consider 
that £550 is an appropriate amount to reflect the impact Barclays misreporting of arrears 
and subsequent customer service failings had on Mr B. I consider it is in line with our general 
approach to compensation amounts which is available on our web-site and which both 
parties are already aware of. 
Whilst I dont agree that the mis-reporting of arrears meant that Barclays was calling Mr B a 
thief, the situation clearly caused him quite a bit of worry and inconvenience  particularly 
given the interruption to his holiday and the uncertainty the voicemail caused. 
The subsequent customer service issues compounded matters and whilst Mr B could have 
contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service before he did, they did flow from Barclays 
original error in terms of the arrears and undoubtedly caused additional upset and 
inconvenience. I appreciate that Mr B thinks a higher level of compensation is warranted, but 
I dont agree. 
Mr B has consistently said that the call from abroad cost him nearly £100 by itself and he 
has provided some cost details to back this up. Given that he only made the call because of 
the voicemail he received (which was as a consequence of Barclays error), I consider 
Barclays does also need to pay this amount to Mr B, because it is a cost he wouldnt have incurred but for the arrears error. 
Putting things right
Barclays needs to pay Mr B a total of £650, comprising £550 compensation and £100 to 
cover the cost of the call from Albania and similar. If Barclays has already paid Mr B some of 
this, it need only pay him an additional amount to bring the total figure to £650.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC and I direct 
it to do what Ive set out above under Putting thing right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman