DRN-3201424
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (trading as Monzo) didnt cancel a debit card payment 
he made in error.
What happened
On 26 March 2021, Mr S made a payment of £693 using his debit card. Shortly after making 
the payment, he contacted Monzo to ask for the payment to be stopped, as he had intended 
to make the payment using his credit card instead. 
Monzo told Mr S to contact the merchant to ask them not to collect the payment. When Mr S 
did so, the merchant told him that Monzo were able to recall the payment. He got in touch 
with Monzo again. They explained only the merchant could cancel a card payment and they 
cant recall it. They offered to raise a dispute with Mastercard and asked him to provide 
further information.
Unhappy with this, Mr S raised a complaint. Monzo apologised for the frustration caused and 
explained that they couldve reversed the payment when Mr S first contacted them, if he 
gave them the required supporting evidence. 
Our investigator said that Monzo couldve provided clearer information to Mr S, but didnt feel 
he should be compensated as the inconvenience caused to him didnt go above what wed 
expect to see. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S first contacted Monzo to ask for the payment to be cancelled, they asked him to 
contact the merchant directly. I think this was a reasonable suggestion at the time as its 
often the quickest way to resolve these types of issues.
Monzo have already accepted that they couldve reversed the payment, if Mr S provided 
further information. So, Ive focused on the point disputed here  whether Monzo were clear 
about the process and why they required the information.
On 8 March 2021, Monzo told Mr S:
Im afraid that we cant recall a card payment, only the merchant can cancel a card 
payment.
If they definitely wont be collecting the payment, we could raise a dispute with 
Mastercard. Before we can do that, we need a little bit more information... We would 
need them to confirm the amount, date, and either the last 4 digits of the card 
number or the authorisation code of the payment, as well as to confirm that they 
wont be collecting it. 
Monzo told Mr S they couldnt recall the payment but offered to raise a dispute. But theyve 
since confirmed they couldve reversed the payment, if Mr S provided the information theyd 
asked for. Based on this, I think Mr S was given contradictory information. So, I can 
understand his frustration and disappointment.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Monzo to request supporting information from Mr S 
before reversing the payment. This is to ensure the merchant was also in agreement with the 
transaction being cancelled. But since they told Mr S that they required this information to 
raise a dispute, he didnt take things further. 
I can understand why Mr S didnt provide the information Monzo asked for, as he wasnt 
disputing the payment. He simply wanted it to be stopped. If Monzo were clear about the 
process and why they required the information, its likely Mr S wouldve provided them with 
the necessary information to recall the payment. 
 
And as a result, I think Monzo have let Mr S down here. He has explained he wasnt able to 
make another payment using his debit card. Hes told us he borrowed money from his 
mother  but hasnt been able to provide evidence of this.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr S to decide if Monzo should compensate him. Its 
important to explain that any award of compensation we make isnt intended to punish the 
financial business. 
Sometimes mistakes do happen and this may cause the consumer inconvenience, 
frustration and annoyance. This doesnt mean the consumer must be compensated in all 
circumstances. I need to be satisfied that the impact on the consumer was more than the 
normal nuisances of everyday life.
I dont think the impact on Mr S here was significant enough to ask Monzo to pay 
compensation. I say this because dealing with financial services isnt always hassle free and 
occasionally mistakes do happen. Were all inconvenienced at times in day-to-day life and it 
isnt unusual to experience some frustration and annoyance.
Ive also taken into account that part of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S 
wasnt down to the error made by Monzo. I say this because, Mr S accidently made the 
payment using the wrong card, so it was inevitable hed be inconvenienced to rectify the 
issue. But I agree some of the distress and inconvenience caused by Monzo couldve been 
avoided.
That said, Mr S was able to lessen the impact on him by borrowing money from his mother 
to cover the other payment he needed to make. So, the impact on him wasnt significant. 
Also, he didnt suffer a financial loss.
Looking at the chat history, Mr S spent some time and effort to sort this issue, but overall this 
was minimal. Mr S also had another option available to mitigate his situation. He couldve 
paid part of the second payment using his credit card. This wouldve put him in the same 
position he wouldve been in if the initial payment was made on his credit card as he 
intended.
All things considered, I dont think the impact on Mr S was significant enough to warrant 
compensation. So, I wont be making an award in these circumstances.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman