DRN-3258747
The complaint
Ms S has complained about her motor insurer, Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited as 
it will only replace the locks on her car and has refused to otherwise repair it. She believes it 
was damaged by vandals.
What happened
Ms S called Markerstudy in April 2021 as shed recently visited her local garage, only to be 
told her car was unsafe to drive. Shed noted her car was open on a couple of occasions, 
that things were missing from the car and there was some internal damage and once 
someone with a mask had stolen her wheel. So, having learned from the garage that there 
was significant damage to her car, she made a claim to Markerstudy.
Markerstudy said it would change the locks on her car for her as a precaution. But, having 
consulted its engineer who had assessed the car, and even after having interviewed Ms S to 
get a better understanding of what might have happened, it wasnt persuaded there was any 
damage to the car consistent with vandalism.
Our investigator considered Ms Ss complaint. He noted that an engineer had considered the 
damage. He felt Markerstudy had made a fair and reasonable decision. So he didnt 
recommend it should do anything more. Ms S asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been a worrying time for Ms S, with concerns that people have 
been entering her car as well as her home. And I know shes been without use of her car for 
a while now, even though shes needed it to care for a family member. Its unfortunate shes 
having to deal with all of that. Whilst I certainly dont wish to cause her additional upset, 
having carefully considered her complaint, Im not persuaded that Markerstudy did anything 
wrong. I think it assessed Ms Ss claim fairly, reasonably and in a timely manner. So Im not 
upholding Ms Ss complaint or asking Markerstudy to do anything more.
Ms Ss policy covers her car against vandalism. If Ms Ss car is vandalised, she is covered 
for that. So if, for example, someone sprayed graffiti on her car, shed likely be covered for 
its removal and the cars necessary repair (assuming other terms of the policy were met). 
But just because Ms S has seen people in the vicinity of her car, that on occasion shes 
found the car door open, and the car is now presenting with issues that she hadnt noticed 
before, doesnt mean those problems have been caused by vandalism. 
For example, I understand the biggest problem with the car currently is that a new clutch is 
needed. A cars clutch is a mechanical part that, over time, through normal use and even on 
a car that is carefully cared for, suffers wear. In time some clutches on some cars fail and 
need replacing. And an expert in cars, such as an engineer, is able, because they view 
clutches damaged in this way regularly, to know when a clutch has worn out. And it is the 
opinion of Markerstudys engineer that this is what has happened on Ms Ss car  that the 
clutch hasnt been vandalised, that it has simply worn out. Nothing Ive seen gives me cause 
to think that opinion is likely flawed in any way.
And Ive noted the other damages reported by Ms S, and that Markerstudys engineer 
believes they are consistent with wear cause by normal usage too. In thinking about what 
the engineer has said Ive viewed photos of Ms Ss car. The seats, for example, dont appear 
to have been slashed, and the interior of the car doesnt seem to have, for example, been 
randomly smashed or covered in any substance. That would be the type of damage typically 
associated with vandalism. The photos of Ms Ss car, for example, show a frayed edge on a 
seatbelt, a disconnected cable under the seat which is missing some of its outer plastic 
casing and a (possibly) slightly damaged centre console. I think the engineer has fairly and 
reasonably concluded that Ms Ss car isnt suffering from damage caused by vandalism.
I noted above that Ms S has been without her car for a long time, and during a time when 
shes needed to be able to drive. I appreciate this has been difficult for her and that shed 
asked Markerstudy on several occasions for a courtesy car. But I see that Ms Ss policy only 
offers her a courtesy car when Markerstudy has accepted a claim and is repairing damage. 
And here, whilst Markerstudy had agreed to replace the cars locks as a security precaution, 
it hadnt accepted the claim. I also see that Markerstudy had offered to return Ms Ss car to 
her, in coordination with her chosen garage, if she wanted to have it back and do the repairs 
whilst its enquiries were continuing. But I understand that this wasnt suitable for Ms S. Im 
not persuaded I could reasonably have expected Markerstudy to do more than this.
I say that as it was entitled to investigate and validate Ms Ss claim. And I understand that it 
always had some concerns about it because of the somewhat vague nature of the details of 
the loss that Ms S had been able to provide. But I see that Markerstudy noted Ms S had said 
shed reported matters to the police, and it did make enquiries in this respect. And it also 
arranged to interview Ms S to try and gather some more specific details. All of that did take a 
little while  but I think it was handled efficiently by Markerstudy. Ive not seen that during the 
course of its reasonable validation enquiries it caused any unreasonable delays.
I understand that Markerstudy is currently looking to return Ms Ss car to her, having 
changed the locks. Whilst I realise the content of my decision is not the answer Ms S wanted 
to hear, I trust she can now understand why her complaint against Markerstudy isnt upheld. 
Im satisfied it handled her claim in a reasonable manner and came to a fair decision to not 
cover the damage reported to it as having resulted from vandalism.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, I dont make any award against Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman