DRN-4191545
The complaint
Mrs M says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has mis-led her into believing her current 
account provided her with access to its Rewards scheme.
What happened
Mrs Ms held an account with RBS for many years. Although the account had different 
names in that period, for most of the time at least it attracted a monthly fee. She contacted 
RBS in 2022 regarding the rewards she believed shed accrued through her use of the 
account. 
When RBS told Mrs M she didnt have an account that gave her access to its Rewards 
scheme she complained that shed been mis-led into believing she did. RBS investigated 
and said that although Mrs M had qualified for rewards from December 2013, its records 
showed shed opted out of the scheme when it was revised in December 2015. This, RBS 
said, explained why Mrs M had received information from RBS indicating shed accrued at 
least some rewards. 
Unhappy with RBSs response, Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They were satisfied that 
Mrs M was given the chance to opt into a Reward-based account in 2015 but hadnt done 
so. 
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings. She said her main issue with RBS was that it 
continued to send her emails about how she could collect rewards. Her rewards balance 
continued to accrue a small number of rewards, and this led her to believe she had a 
relevant account.
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are some gaps in the information thats still available about the events Mrs Ms 
complained about. I dont find that surprising given the time thats passed. That being said, 
Ive focussed on whats been provided in considering what I believe is more likely than not to 
have happened. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from RBSs submissions that Mrs M has held a fee-paying account with RBS for 
some time. And that she signed up for a free rewards scheme in 2013 called Cashback Plus. 
This entitled her to earn cash back when spending with participating retailers. 
It seems that the Cashback Plus scheme was wound down in 2015, at which time RBS 
launched its Reward accounts  the successor to the Cashback Plus scheme. My 
understanding is that existing Cashback Plus customers, such as Mrs M, were offered the 
chance to opt into a Reward account in return for a specified monthly fee. 
Its possible that Mrs M opted into the Rewards scheme and that her selection wasnt 
processed for some reason. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs M made 
such a choice. And, if she had but this hadnt been acted upon, its reasonable to expect that 
she would have queried this with RBS sooner. She says she spoke to RBS about this in 
2017 but Ive seen nothing to show thats the case.  
On the other hand, I think it at least equally likely that Mrs M elected to retain her existing 
account and not take up the offer of a Rewards-based account. Changing accounts would, 
after all, have cost her more money than she was already paying. And although it could be 
argued she opted into the Cashback Plus scheme and so would probably also have opted 
for a Rewards-based account, the former was available to her free of charge whereas the 
latter wasnt. Its possible Mrs M doesnt recall making that decision now, several years later 
 and that would be completely understandable. 
Mrs Ms asked why shed received communications from RBS indicating shed accrued 
rewards if she never held a qualifying account. Im persuaded by RBSs explanation that 
Mrs Ms Cashback Plus rewards were migrated to its database for the revised Rewards 
scheme. And that the value might have gone up, as Mrs M says, since apparently there are 
still some participating retailers that support the previous scheme.  
I think that by migrating the rewards Mrs M had earned from the previous Cashback Plus 
scheme, RBS acted fairly to ensure she wasnt losing out following the introduction of its 
revised Rewards scheme. That said, I think RBS could have been clearer as to the actions it 
had taken and its reasons for doing so. 
I fully appreciate that Mrs Ms disappointed that she didnt have the account she thought she 
did. But, while I recognise RBS could have explained things to her more explicitly, I dont 
think its at fault for Mrs M holding the account she holds. I gather she can still upgrade to a 
newer Rewards-based account with RBS in return for an additional monthly fee. Its open for 
her to contact RBS directly if shed like to explore that option.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman