DRN-3902259
The complaint
A company which Ill call E complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) did not 
cancel a direct debit when they asked it to.
The complaint is brought on Es behalf by their director.
What happened
E says that Co-op allowed direct debit payments to be taken from their account even though 
they cancelled the direct debit over the phone with Co-op within 5-6 days of the first payment 
being due. This led them to being overdrawn. E made a complaint to Co-op. But it did not 
uphold Es complaint. It said it did not receive a request from E to cancel this payment. E 
brought their complaint to our service. Co-op told us it has now cancelled the direct debit and 
it refunded the £21 charges that were applied as a result of the direct debit being unpaid in 
October and November 2022 as a gesture of goodwill.   
Our investigator did not uphold Es complaint. She said she had no response from E after 
asking them to provide evidence of a call log to show they rang Co-op to cancel the direct 
debit. She said she received an audit trail from Co-op which shows successful call 
verifications were only completed on 1 September and 4 November 2022, which supported 
Co-ops position that they didnt receive a call from E around mid-September 2022 to cancel 
the direct debit instruction. E asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. They said 
they called Co-op from a withheld number around the middle of September, but they didnt 
have a copy of the call log.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what E have said about ringing Co-op around mid-September to cancel the 
direct debit instruction. They have said that they rang from a withheld number. Co-op have 
sent our service a screenshot of Es account which shows when a call handler has 
successfully validated the caller when they have discussed anything on Es account. 
So Im not persuaded it would matter what phone number E rang Co-op from or if the 
number was withheld, as if they had been successfully validated then the system would 
show Es account was accessed by a call handler. I can see that the day before the direct 
debit was created on the account that there was a call which shows a validation on 1 
September 2022. Ive listened to this call, but it does not relate to a direct debit cancellation. 
The next call which was validated on Es account was on 4 November 2022. So there were 
no successful calls validated between the direct debit being created to when the direct debit 
was debited from Es account. Co-op have confirmed it wouldve only been able to cancel 
the direct debit instruction if the call was validated by a call handler successfully going 
through its authentication process, but the audit of the account doesnt show this before the 
payment was debited from the account. 
As I have been unable to evidence that E had contacted Co-op to cancel the direct debit 
before it was debited from their account, then Im unable to say Co-op has made an error 
here. Co-op did refund the charges related to the unpaid direct debit as a gesture of 
goodwill, even though the evidence shows it made no error here. So it follows that I dont 
require Co-op to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman