DRN-3836345
The complaint
Mr R has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him for transactions he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
Mr R was on holiday with his family in June 2022. He quickly noticed three transactions 
made with his Barclays debit card that he didnt recognise. These amounted to £7,900.75. 
He told Barclays hed not made these and wanted to be refunded.
In discussion with Barclays, Mr R told them hed had his PIN written down as it was new. 
Barclays believed Mr R had acted in a grossly negligent manner so they wouldnt be 
refunding him. Mr R brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both Barclays and Mr R. He noted that 
Mr R now said hed not had his PIN written down. However as our investigator couldnt tell 
where any point of compromise could have been, he thought it was more likely Mr R had 
authorised the transactions.
Mr R denied this to be the case. Hes massively out of pocket and wants an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Rs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Rs case.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Mr R have told us.
I believe the evidence shows Mr R authorised the disputed transactions. I say this because:
Mr Rs genuine card and PIN were used for the disputed transactions.
I dont doubt what Mr R now says about not writing his PIN down and keeping it with 
his card. Mr Rs card was used for the disputed transactions some hours after he 
withdrew cash from a cash machine. Mr R is unclear whether anyone could have 
seen the PIN at this time, but I think it more likely if this had happened, then his card 
would have been used immediately to minimise any delay in unauthorised use being 
discovered.
Mr Rs PIN was stored in his mobile phone, but his phone was never out of his 
possession. It would also have needed to be returned to him if the PIN had been 
successfully discovered. Its actually unclear when Mr Rs card went missing as he 
disputed the transactions before he knew his card was missing.
The disputed use amounts to nearly £8,000. This looks extremely unusual when 
reviewing Mr Rs use of his account over the preceding couple of years. However at 
the same time I see transfers were made into Mr Rs account on 24 May and 6 June 
which cover the amount withdrawn for the disputed transactions. These transactions 
were also unusual. 
I considered whether Mr R may have put this money into his account as he was 
concerned about the impact of the disputed transactions on any overdraft. However 
Barclays evidence shows the disputed transactions were only authorised because 
these funds were available.
Overall I think the evidence suggests its most likely Mr R authorised these transactions and 
either carried these out himself or knows who did. On this basis I wont be asking Barclays to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Rs complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman