DRN-3139209
The complaint
Mr D complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) when he returned his vehicle. 
What happened
Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement for a vehicle with MBFS in October 2017. The 
vehicle was returned at the end of the agreement period in October 2020.
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for MBFS on 26 October 2020. The report 
from this inspection notes damage outside of fair wear and tear and the cost to Mr D as 
follows: 
Left hand front wheel  rim damage over 50mm - £110
Left hand rear wheel  rim damage over 50mm - £110
Right hand rear wheel  rim damage over 50mm - £110
Right hand front wheel  rim damage over 50mm - £110
Rear bumper  scratch with paint damage over 50mm - £210
Quarter panel right hand rear  scratched greater than 25mm through top-coat - £170
MBFS also charged Mr D £1,954.94 for excess mileage. 
Mr D complained to MBFS about these charges. He said the damage was minor and 
shouldnt have been logged as chargeable. He also asked to increase his mileage 
allowance, but this was declined. Had it been accepted; the excess mileage charge wouldve 
been less. 
MBFS sent Mr D their final response to his complaint in December 2020. They said the 
photos taken at the inspection didnt clearly show the damage to the right-hand front wheel, 
so this charge was removed. They said the rest of the damage is evident and outside of the 
vehicle return standards, so Mr D remains liable for £710 in damage charges. 
MBFS said they didnt increase Mr Ds mileage allowance when he asked, because this 
wouldve increased his monthly payments, and they didnt think this would be suitable for Mr 
D. As the mileage allowance had been exceeded, the excess mileage charge of £1,954.94 
was payable. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. He said the charges were 
excessive and he couldve repaired the damage for less than MBFS were charging, but they 
didnt give him the information to do this soon enough. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. She thought the damage was outside of the 
return standards, and so was chargeable. She said the return standards were included in Mr 
Ds agreement, so she thought MBFS had provided these in good time to Mr D. She said the 
excess mileage charge had been made in line with the agreement and she didnt think 
MBFS needed to do anything more. 
Mr D didnt agree. He feels the damage is within the return standards, the charges are 
excessive, and he wasnt given the tools to allow him to assess and repair the damage 
himself in good time before the end of the contract. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D signed a hire purchase agreement in October 2017. The terms of the agreement set 
out that the vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle 
return standards. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians and 
goes on to set out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge 
for the costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mr D was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
Ive considered whether the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.  
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what its fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
MBFS have agreed to remove the charge for the right-hand front wheel, so Ive considered 
the remainder of the damage charges and the excess mileage charge. Ive seen evidence of 
the photos taken when collection agents inspected the vehicle for MBFS. 
Wheels
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that minor scuffing or damage 
under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face is acceptable. The BVRLA 
fair wear and tear standards say that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
alloy wheel are acceptable. 
Im satisfied that the photos clearly show scuffs over 50mm on all three alloys, some of 
which are severe, So, Im satisfied that the charges for repair of the three alloys have been 
fairly applied.
Scratches
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that light surface scratches not 
through the top-coat which can be removed by polishing / touching up are acceptable. The 
BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of 25mm or less where the 
primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out. Im satisfied that the photo of the bumper shows a scratch where the primer or bare metal is 
showing, and the photo of the rear quarter panel shows a scratch over 50mm in size. So, Im 
satisfied that the charges for repair of these two scratches have been fairly applied. 
Mr D is unhappy with the level of charges that have been applied and said he couldve 
repaired them for a much lower price. Hes also said the information wasnt given to him in 
good time. 
The vehicle return standards form part of the agreement that Mr D signed in October 2017. 
So, Im satisfied that MBFS provided the information to allow Mr D to assess any charges he 
might encounter at the end of the agreement in good time. MBFS supplied Mr D with the 
standards and a measuring tool again in September 2020. So, whilst this was near to the 
end of the agreement, I think Mr D still had the opportunity to have any damage outside of 
the return standards repaired prior to returning the vehicle at the end of October.  
Ive looked into the damage charges, and I can see that the costs are included on a charging 
matrix on MBFSs website. So, Im satisfied that Mr D could have reviewed these and 
decided whether to have the damage repaired instead of incurring end of contract charges. 
Ive looked at the charging structures for other manufacturers, and the charges applied by 
MBFS are higher than others. I have the power to require businesses to act in relation to an 
individual where something has gone wrong, but not to order a business to change its 
practices more generally. So, I cant say what MBFS should charge for damage when hire 
vehicles are returned, but I can look at whether they have applied those charges fairly. I am 
satisfied that MBFS apply the same charges to all consumers at the end of the hire 
agreement, so I dont think theyve been applied unfairly in this case. 
Ive thought about whether the charges are excessive. Ive taken into consideration that 
charges do differ between manufacturers. Ive also consulted quotation websites, and the 
average cost to repair alloys is between £80 and £125. All things considered; Im not 
persuaded that the charges applied by MBFS for the damage are excessive in the 
circumstances. 
Excess mileage
When Mr D signed the agreement, he accepted an annual mileage allowance of 15,000 
miles, so a total of 45,000 miles over the three-year period of the agreement. The vehicle 
was returned having covered 65,364 miles. So, Mr D had exceeded his mileage allowance 
by 20,364 miles. 
Mr D doesnt dispute that he exceeded the mileage allowance. He says he asked MBFS if he 
could increase the allowance part way through the agreement, but this was declined.  
Theres nothing in the agreement between MBFS and Mr D which allows for an amendment 
of the mileage allowance part way through the term. So, any change to the mileage would 
mean a change in contract. Both MBFS and Mr D would need to agree to end the original 
contract and begin a new one on new terms, which theyre not required to do. 
So, Im satisfied that MBFS acted fairly when declining to increase Mr Ds milage allowance 
under this agreement, and that the excess mileage charge has been applied fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman