The complaint
Mr W complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have unfairly declined 
his Home Insurance Claim.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr W said he accidentally damaged the lens of his camera when it fell 
from a table. Although it didnt suffer any major damage, Mr W said after this the internal 
focus wouldnt work. He contacted LV to make a claim. LV sent the lens to a third-party 
engineer to inspect. 
The engineer told LV the lens focus ring failed to move the complete distance range but said 
the front section of the optics were covered in fungus and would have been present prior to 
the incident. So, it was beyond repair. 
LV declined Mr Ws claim as the terms and conditions of the policy excluded claims for 
damage caused by fungus.
Mr W disagreed with LV. He said if there was fungus on the lens, it wouldnt affect the 
internal focus. Mr W said he spoke to the engineer who told him they could see the impact 
probably caused the internal focus to stop working. He felt the lens should be inspected by 
the original manufacturer.
LV said their decision remained to decline the claim for the same reasons, so Mr W brought 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mr Ws claim.  She said LV had applied the 
terms and conditions of the policy fairly. 
Mr W disagreed with our investigator.  He said the lens was working before it fell and said 
the lens shouldve been inspected by the manufacturer  and should now be passed to them 
for a second inspection.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
LV arranged for the lens to be looked at by their engineer. Its not unusual for insurance 
companies to do this when considering a claim  so I dont consider this unreasonable. 
DRN-1921642LV said the engineer failed to find any evidence of impact damage. In the report provided by 
the engineer I can see it says fungus was found inside the optics. It also noted the ring failed 
to move to complete the distance range. 
Ive also seen photos of the camera from when it was inspected, and I cant see any 
evidence of impact damage from the photos.
As LV were unable to find evidence of impact damage, I dont think it was unreasonable to 
conclude the fungus was the only issue they could consider when assessing Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W doesnt agree this was the cause of the issues, but hes not provided further evidence 
to support this  and its for Mr W to prove he has a valid claim. 
In the terms and conditions of the policy, under the general exceptions it says LV will not pay 
for:
any claim arising from:
 mildew, fungus, climatic or atmospheric conditions, frost, wet or dry rot;
So I think LV applied the exclusion fairly when declining Mr Ws claim and so I dont require 
them to send the camera to the manufacturer. If Mr W wishes to do this himself, he can 
present any findings to LV for them to consider further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman