DRN-3927626
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund a transaction on his account 
which he didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Mr C has explained that he fell victim to a scam. He was selling an item on Gumtree, and 
someone posing as an interested buyer messaged him. They sent him a link to a website 
which they said would allow him to receive payment for the item, and arrange for the courier 
to pick it up for delivery. 
The scammer told him he would receive a notification on his app to receive the payment. 
Mr C questioned why this notification, which prompted him to enter his PIN, didnt show the 
amount he was expecting for the item (£35). The scammer said the figure displayed was the 
order number. They also said they always ordered through that website and hadnt 
experienced any problems. 
Mr C then entered his PIN as instructed. But rather than receiving the payment he was 
expecting, a payment for £689.59 left his account. He asked Monzo to refund him. It paid 
him £25 compensation for how it handled the investigation, but said it wouldnt refund him as 
he had shared his card details and approved the payment in the app. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr C referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
thought Monzo should refund the payment, with interest, and pay a further £75 
compensation for the worry caused by failing to refund him sooner. As Monzo didnt accept 
this proposed resolution, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), the starting position is 
that Mr C is liable for payments he authorises. The PSRs specify that authorisation 
depends on whether the payment transactions were authenticated correctly  and 
whether the account holder consented to them. 
It seems to be agreed that the disputed payment was properly authenticated. 
Whether Mr C consented to it (as Ill cover in more detail below) depends on whether 
he completed the agreed steps to make the payment. Or if someone else acted on 
his behalf and used those agreed steps.
Its my understanding that, in order to make this payment, Mr Cs card details and a 
payment amount was entered. Then his PIN was entered on his app. 
Im persuaded it wasnt Mr C who entered his card details (and other payment 
information) to initiate this transaction. It doesnt seem that Monzo disputes this either 
 as it says he shared his card details, not that he input them to make the payment. 
While Mr C did enter his card details on the website the scammer sent him a link to, 
he didnt do so for the purpose of authorising a payment. Instead, he was tricked by 
the scammer to think he needed to enter those details to receive a payment  not 
knowing the scammer could access and use them to request the payment.
Monzo argues that, in line with its terms, Mr C still consented to the payment as he 
entered his PIN on the app. But he didnt do this with the understanding he was 
consenting to a payment. Rather, he thought this was part of the process for him to 
receive payment for the item he was selling. This belief was supported by the website 
he saw, and what the scammer told him. 
Furthermore, the PSRs set out that a payment is regarded to be authorised if the 
payer has given consent to the execution of the payment transaction. That consent 
must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between 
the payer and its payment service provider. 
As Monzos terms allude to, entering your PIN alone isnt enough to execute a 
payment. Further steps, such as entering the card details, are needed. As set out 
above, I dont think Mr C completed these earlier steps. Nor did he enter the PIN with 
the intention or understanding that he was authorising a payment. 
As Mr C didnt complete all the steps to make this payment, nor did he consent for 
someone else to do so, the payment is unauthorised.
The payment information Ive seen suggests this transaction was requested online 
for ecommerce. That would generally mean its whats termed a distance contract  
in other words, a transaction where neither the merchant nor the consumer are 
physically present. If so, in line with 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, Mr C would only be liable 
for it if he acted fraudulently. Ive seen nothing to suggest he acted fraudulently, nor 
has Monzo suggested this. Mr C was instead the victim of a scam. 
However, Monzo says this wasnt a distance contract as the payment was to transfer 
funds into a payment account. If true, I agree that in line with the Consumer 
Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013, this 
wouldnt be a distance contract  as contracts for services of a payment or banking 
nature are excepted.
In line with the PSRs, if this isnt a distance contract, Mr C could still be held liable for 
this unauthorised payment if he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with 
the terms of the account  or to keep his personalised security details safe.
Monzo hasnt provided supporting evidence to show how it knows this transaction 
was for banking and payment services. Regardless, even if the considerations for an 
excepted (rather than a distance) contract apply, I still dont think Mr C should fairly 
be held liable for the payment.
I dont find that Mr C intentionally failed to keep his account or security details safe. 
He entered his card details to receive a payment, not realising this information could be accessed and used by the scammer. And he didnt share his PIN; he entered it 
into his own banking app, again thinking hed then receive the expected payment. 
I dont find that Mr C failed with gross negligence either. Thats not to say there 
wasnt more he could have done to protect himself. But I dont think his actions show 
a very significant degree of carelessness beyond what a reasonable person in his 
situation would have done. 
Mr C was genuinely selling an item, so the message from the scammer posing as an 
interested buyer wasnt particularly unexpected. In my view, the link to the website, 
and the screenshot Ive seen of what it looked like, did appear convincing. I can see 
why Mr C believed it was a legitimate website and therefore followed the instructions 
on it to receive payment and arrange for a courier to collect the item for delivery.
Acting off the back of that website, I can also see why he was persuaded to enter his 
PIN on the app to receive the payment. The scammer told him this was part of the 
process for the website, which theyd used before without any issue. 
Mr C did question why the notification didnt show the payment amount he was 
expecting. But he was persuaded by the scammers explanation that it was instead 
showing the order number. Particularly as the transaction was made in another 
currency, I can see why it wasnt immediately apparent to Mr C that this was a lie.
Overall, in the context of what was a reasonably sophisticated scam, I dont think 
Mr Cs actions showed serious disregard of an obvious risk such that he failed with 
gross negligence.  
I therefore find that Mr C isnt liable for this payment. In line with its obligations under 
the PSRs, Monzo should have promptly refunded him when he reported what had 
happened. Its failure to do so unnecessarily caused him additional worry and upset. I 
dont consider the £25 compensation Monzo has paid adequate to reflect this. So Im 
awarding a further £75 compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right, Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Refund Mr C for the unauthorised transaction of £689.59; 
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised payment to 
the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible), to compensate him for the 
loss of use of the funds; and
Pay Mr C a further £75 compensation for his distress and inconvenience  on top of 
the £25 it has already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put things 
right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman