DRN-3384096
The complaint
Miss C complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled her mortgage account between 
April 2019 and June 2020 following her separation from her partner the joint account holder. 
Miss C says that HSBCs shortcomings had a severe impact on her mental health and 
believes that she should receive at least £750 in compensation.
What happened
Miss C and her former partner had a joint mortgage with HSBC which they took out in 2018. 
They also had a fixed rate mortgage product. At the end of March 2019 Miss C visited a 
HSBC branch following her separation for help and advice. In early April she received a 
phone call from an adviser, who advised her of possible options, which included removing 
her ex-partner from the mortgage and having it in her name only. The adviser confirmed that 
because of the difficult circumstances, although she was approximately. £5,000 off the 
affordability, this would be waived. Miss C also discussed other options, including a Transfer 
of Equity (ToE) from her ex-partner to a family member. Due to the size of the mortgage, 
and not wanting to stay in a home that had been purchased for a family and was far too 
large for her, Miss C decided to put the property on the market in May 2019.
Throughout the time that the property was on the market, Miss C was under intense 
pressure and stress because of her situation. Her ex-partner had moved out of the property 
but had threatened on several occasions to stop contributing towards the mortgage. Miss C 
highlighted this to HSBC staff in a number of the conversations. In February 2020, as a 
result of this pressure, Miss C decided to buy her ex-partner out of the house, with a gift from 
her parents. Miss C had discussed this exact scenario with an adviser in April 2019, so she 
did not foresee any problems in doing this. In February / March 2020 she completed an 
application with a HSBC mortgage adviser. Miss C was distraught when that adviser 
informed her that she had been misinformed that any gap in affordability would be waived. 
The adviser told her that as she was very close to the affordability, as her parents were 
gifting her money to pay off a loan in her name, and given her circumstances, the application 
should be submitted. The application was rejected. The adviser told Miss C that the main 
reason behind this was a loan in her name. 
On the weekend after the application was rejected, in desperation, Miss C spoke to a 
member of the arrears team, to identify any support she could get in the event that her ex - 
partner stopped making payments to the account. Miss C was told that there would be no 
support until payments were missed and that HSBC had no specific team or process to 
handle vulnerable customers in her situation. At this point Miss C says that her mental illness 
had degraded to such a low point that she was concerned about her ability to continue to 
work, with the stress of the mortgage being a large cause. This is something Miss C
clearly explained to the arrears team member that she spoke to In March 2020.
After Miss C had paid off the loan, the application was approved, and she began the legal 
proceedings to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage. Miss C says that for some reason, 
HSBC didnt require proof the loan had been paid off, which undermined the previous 
message she had been given around the application being rejected because of the loan.
In April 2020 Miss C received an offer for the house and decided to continue with her plan to 
move. Miss C quickly found a house and made an offer, and contacted a HSBC mortgage 
adviser  to amend her application. In their initial discussion the adviser told Miss C  that her 
previous application had already been cancelled, which she had not requested. Had her 
house sale fallen through, Miss C felt she would not have been able to meet the affordability 
under a new application because of the lending criteria changing. 
Between April and June 2020 Miss Cs application to port her mortgage and remove her ex-
partner was progressed to completion. In July 2020, Miss C contacted HSBC to clarify the 
process for her early repayment charge (ERC) to be refunded and was told it would be 
refunded to her solicitors. However, due to an error on HSBCs part it was refunded to her 
joint account. Miss C  was able to move the funds and split them according to the agreement 
that she had with her ex-partner, but says that  if he had noticed this her ex-partner would 
have had the opportunity to withhold funds from her. In summary Miss C complains that she:
 was given no support as a vulnerable customer 
 was given misinformation that had a significant impact on her decision making 
throughout this period
 was impacted by process failings on more than one occasion. All of this had a 
significant impact on the stress she was under.
HSBC didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint although it accepted that there had been a delay in 
the partial refund of the ERC and paid £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Our investigator didnt 
believe that HSBC had done anything wrong and didnt recommend that this complaint 
should be upheld. Miss C disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C had separated from her ex-partner, was suffering from issues with her mental well-
being and feels that HSBC didnt assist her, particularly in early 2020. It does seem, 
thankfully that she did get everything sorted and was able to move out of the jointly owned 
property, move to another property and port her share of the mortgage.
Miss C has some specific complaints against HSBC. Miss C says that she was misled by a 
HSBC adviser to believe that if she applied for a ToE and failed its affordability test HSBC 
would accept the application if the affordability fell short by up to £5,000. As I understand it, 
that was when Miss C was thinking of a ToE application which she later changed her mind 
about when she decided that her best interests were served by selling the property. 
Unfortunately, although a conversation clearly took place by phone between a mortgage 
adviser and Miss C at this period in 2019, theres no recording of what was said about the 
affordability and the £5,000. There was a call on 21 April 2019 between Miss C and a 
mortgage adviser about a possible prting application but no mention of the £5,000 shortfall 
waiver. I understand that the call Miss C refers to preceded that call of 21 April 2019. The 
problem with an unrecorded discussion is that its impossible to be definitive as to what was 
precisely said. It does seem that the fact the £5,000 shortfall wasnt mentioned in the 
subsequent phone call would indicate that there wasnt a significant concession by the 
HSBC adviser in the earlier call. I say this because Miss C would likely have mentioned it, as 
the second call was covering the options that would be available to her and clearly 
affordability was central to what those options were. I accept that there may have been a 
discussion about the £5,000 affordability shortfall in the earlier call but there is no supporting 
evidence to say that HSBC had committed itself to this waiving any shortfall and, so, I cant fairly uphold that part of the complaint.  
Miss C says that at a meeting with a HSBC mortgage adviser in February 2020 she was told 
that the application was close to affordability but failed because of a personal loan which 
was then paid off. But when she applied again and passed the affordability test there was no 
mention of the loan and Miss C cant understand why that was. But an examination of the 
underwriting notes shows that there was an issue about affordability because of a large 
repayment of her student loan in her February 2020 payslip which caused an issue with 
affordability. But this large repayment appears to be related to the receipt by her of a bonus 
in February 2020. A review of Miss Cs income and the use of the January 2020 payslip 
which showed the normal student loan repayment meant the application was deemed 
affordable. So, HSBC didnt require evidence that the personal loan was repaid and, so, 
didnt require evidence of its repayment.
Miss C was disappointed by the failure of HSBCs arrears team to respond to the possibility 
that she would be in arrears because her ex-partner might fail to pay his part of the 
mortgage. I understand her concern but also HSBCs difficulty in responding to a situation 
that hadnt arisen. There are several ways that HSBC might have been able to respond 
when the situation arose. But at the time, Miss Cs position was quite fluid, with the property 
on the market, so it would be difficult to formulate a response offering assistance until the 
account actually went into arrear which didnt happen.. So, I cant fairly say that HSBC was 
at fault in this instance.
There are a couple of other matters. Miss C discovered that HSBC had cancelled her ToE 
mortgage application when she went to amend the application after agreeing the sale and 
purchase of another property. HSBC says it did that because Miss Cs property was on the 
market and so the ToE wouldnt be proceeding and in fact it didnt. As that was in fact what 
happened, and Miss C suffered no loss because of HSBCs action I cant say that HSBC did 
anything wrong.
Miss C says that HSBC made a payment of the ERC refund into a joint account with her ex-
partner that meant that her ex-partner could have got access to it, although in the event he 
didnt. HSBC says it sent the refund to the account that Miss C nominated to pay her sole 
mortgage from, and it was reasonable for it to do that. As Miss C accessed the money and it 
wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to assume that this was a sole account, my view is that 
HSBC did nothing wrong. I note that HSBC accepted that there was a delay in payment of 
the refund and paid Miss C £100 which seems reasonable.
Finally. Miss C says that HSBC didnt respond to her complaint in a reasonable period. The 
complaint was raised on 29 October 2020 and a final response letter was sent out on 2 
November 2020 although Miss C didnt receive it. Thats unfortunate but the evidence is that 
it was correctly addressed to her although it didnt arrive. That sometimes happens but I 
cant hold HSBC at fault for any problems the delivery service had in delivering the 
correspondence. 
Miss C makes several complaints against HSBC arising from a time when she felt under 
tremendous pressure following the breakup of her relationship and uncertainty about her 
future housing. Im pleased that her housing needs seem to have been sorted. Ive looked in 
detail at Miss Cs complaints but for the reasons set out above Im unable to uphold them.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman