DRN-3253789
The complaint
Mr K complains about his insurer, Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) declining a claim for 
damage to a furniture suite under his accidental damage protection plan.
What happened
Mr K bought a furniture suite in 2018 and took out a protection plan. The plan was for five 
years and provided cover for damage caused by accidental staining and accidental damage. 
In 2021 Mr K made a claim for damage to a sofa and a corner unit (pulls in the fabric) that he 
said had been caused by his wifes boots and by pets. Mr K said the damage took place 
during a period of lockdown under Covid pandemic restrictions.
Amtrust sent a technician to inspect the damage. The technicians report concluded that the 
extent of the damage (multiple thread pulls in different areas of the sofa and corner unit) 
indicated it hadnt been the result of a single incident of accidental damage. Rather it was 
the result of a build-up of damage, starting in 2020. Based on this, Amtrust rejected the claim 
on the grounds that the damage was due to wear and tear over time (which wasnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of the plan).
Unhappy at the decline of his claim, Mr K complained to Amtrust. He said that because his 
wife was clinically vulnerable, he hadnt wanted to have anyone visit his property to inspect 
the damage while Covid restrictions were in place. But Amtrust didnt uphold his complaint. 
In their final response they referred to the terms and conditions of the policy that said a 
product wasnt covered for any stains or damage arising over time, gradual wear and tear or 
the product becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over time.
Mr K then complained to this service. He said that he would have contacted Amtrust earlier 
to lodge his claim, but his wifes clinical vulnerability meant he didnt want people visiting his 
property during Covid restrictions. He asked that Amtrust repair his corner unit and sofa.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that Amtrust hadnt acted unfairly. 
She thought the damage to the sofas hadnt been the result of an unexpected event, rather it 
had been ongoing over time. Based on this, she thought Amtrust had acted fairly in declining 
the claim, as wear and tear werent covered under the policy.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said hed tried to call Amtrust during the period of Covid restrictions on the 
number hed used when making previous claims and they were wrong to say they didnt 
recognise the number. He was also unhappy that his not wanting anyone to visit the property 
during Covid restrictions because of his wifes vulnerability had led Amtrust to say that the 
damage was due to wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to acknowledge what Mr K has told us about the clinical vulnerability of his wife 
and the impact of the Covid pandemic and the restrictions would have had. I can appreciate 
that he would have been concerned for the health of his wife and wanted to minimise any 
risks. But my role here is to decide whether Amtrust has acted fairly towards Mr K. 
The central issue in Mr Ks complaint is that Amtrust havent acted fairly in declining his 
claim for damage to the corner unit and sofa. Mr K argues, firstly, that the impact of Covid 
and the associated restrictions meant he didnt want anyone visiting his property to inspect 
the damage given his wifes clinical vulnerability. He also argues, secondly, that he did try to 
contact Amtrust during the period but wasnt able to do so successfully. For their part, 
Amtrust say that the damage wasnt the result of a single incident but had happened 
gradually over time and was therefore wear and tear.
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance I agree with Amtrusts position. Looking 
at the technicians report as well as the photographs it includes that show the damage, its 
clear that there is damage to both the corner unit and to the sofa (and a footstool). And that 
its in several different areas. I agree with what Amtrust have said, that the damage isnt 
consistent with a single incident or accident. Its also consistent with what Mr K said in the 
claim form he submitted, in answer to the question about when this happened (or when 
noticed) when it states: over lockdown. 
Ive then looked at terms and conditions of the plan. Under the heading Important  The 
Intention of the cover, it states:
The intention of this plan is to provide cover for individual incidents of accidental 
staining and accidental damage
Accidental Damage is defined as sudden and unintentional damage resulting in rips, 
punctures, scuffs, burns, chips or scratches to the external surface of the item. 
Under Section 4  What is not covered there are the following items:
5. Damage caused by pets biting or chewing the item and any scratching which is 
not limited to a single incident.
6. Any stains or damage arising over time, gradual wear and tear, or your product 
becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over time.
Taking these points together, Ive concluded that Amtrust acted reasonably in line with the 
policy terms and conditions in declining Mr Ks claim. While I recognise Mr Ks point about 
not wanting anyone to visit during lockdown, I dont think this would have precluded Mr K 
making a claim for damage under a single incident when it occurred. That would also be 
consistent with the second point made by Mr K, that he tried to contact Amtrust on the 
number hed used previously but was unable to do so.
Considering that point, while Mr K says he tried to contact Amtrust, they say that the first 
contact they had from Mr K was in January 2021 when he made his claim. While I have no 
reason to doubt what Mr K has told us, Ive noted that the plan terms and conditions include 
two numbers that can be used to contact Amtrust to lodge a claim, or by email. So, I think 
there would have been other options available to Mr K to lodge a claim when the damage 
first occurred, including photographs of the damage (as were included as part of his claim).
Taking all these points together, I dont think Amtrust have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Mr Ks claim.My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman