DRN-1943052
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs R complain that National House Building Council (NHBC) have unfairly 
refused to cover staining to the front bay window area of their property under a Buildmark 
policy. Theyve also said NHBCs attempts to repair a previous defect were poor and 
unsuccessful, causing further staining to the same area. 
As Mr E has led this complaint with our service, Ill refer to him throughout. All references to 
NHBC include its representatives on the claim.
What happened
As the history of this complaint spans several years and is known by both parties, Ive only 
provided a brief summary of whats happened below. In September 2017 NHBC accepted a 
claim for water ingress. A schedule was drawn which included repairs to a cavity tray, roof 
canopy up-stand and drainage outlet, all completed in 2017. NHBC included the cleaning of 
external staining to the front bay window area (stone mullions) within the schedule, and this 
took place in August 2018. 
Mr E said the staining worsened so he complained to NHBC. He said the previous cleaning 
hadnt worked and its defective repair led to further and new staining. Mr E also said NHBC 
was obligated to ensure the staining issue was resolved entirely due to the guarantee it had 
provided in December 2017 following its repair works.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. the policy terms excluded cover for the staining 
to an external finish, and he agreed NHBC had fairly applied this exclusion in the 
circumstances. He also said there was insufficient evidence to show the staining was caused 
by the original defect or subsequent repair  and as NHBC had said, it was instead more 
likely caused as a result of weathering over time. 
The investigator also said NHBC hadnt needed to carry out cleaning works under the policy 
at all, but it still had done so. Mr E didnt agree with our investigator, saying the 
discolouration was caused by the lack of a cavity tray above the window in question not 
having been installed when the property was built. He also said other window lintels and 
stone mullions on the property do not show similar staining  and reiterated that NHBC had 
provided a guarantee.
Our investigator replied, saying the guarantee applied to the repair of the insured defect, and 
not the areas of staining. And he said he was persuaded the staining fell under the exclusion 
of the policy. Mr E said he felt there was a fundamental issue with the repair and that NHBC 
had dismissed his concern without a physical assessment or inspection. As parties 
disagreed, this case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint as our investigator. 
The claim accepted in September 2017 was for damage by way of water ingress due to a 
defect, namely a failed cavity tray, and missing sealant to the roof canopy up-stand and at 
the drainage outlet. Mr E has pointed to the location of the staining and suggested the defect 
with the cavity tray fault was the cause. 
The claim in 2017 was accepted under section 3 of the policy. This provides cover for 
damage caused by a defect to certain parts of the home. Importantly, the following are 
specifically excluded:
Cosmetic damage, such as minor cracking, spalling or mortar erosion to brickwork 
which does not impair the structural stability or weather tightness of the home or 
which only affects decorations
Any change in the colour or texture of, or any staining to, any external finish
I agree with our investigators conclusion that the stone work around the window, particularly 
any staining to its surface, could be reasonably be described as an external finish. So I think 
NHBC acted fairly in saying the staining to the stone mullions was excluded. 
Furthermore, I think the staining can also fairly be described as cosmetic damage that does 
not impair the structural stability or weather tightness of the home, so I think cover can also 
fairly be excluded for this reason. This is supported by the opinions given by NHBC, and 
Mr E hasnt provided any expert evidence to show otherwise.
Mr E insists that NHBC said all necessary works would be completed in a manner that 
returned the bay window to its original cosmetic state. Ive not seen any evidence to show 
NHBC expressly promised to do this, and in fact, this runs contrary to the terms of the policy 
that say cosmetic damage isnt covered. So even if I was persuaded NHBC had promised 
this  which Im not  I wouldnt expect NHBC to be going above and beyond its terms.
Mr E claims NHBCs repair was substandard. NHBC carried out tests following the repairs to 
the defects and maintains that this repair was completed properly, particularly seeing as 
there is no evidence of further water ingress. Mr E hasnt provided any expert evidence to 
support what hes said, so Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to fairly say NHBCs 
repair was substandard. 
I say this as Ive carefully reviewed the reports provided and seen nothing to suggest a link 
between the staining and the defect described above. It follows I find NHBCs comments 
more persuasive, and Im satisfied its more likely the staining isnt linked to the defect NHBC 
agreed to repair in 2017 or its subsequent repairs.
Mr E has asked why NHBC agreed to carry out the cleaning if it wasnt covered under the 
policy, and why it asked him to wait to see if the staining cleared up. He insists that he could 
have contacted a local builder to complete the work earlier, for less cost. But Ive been given 
no opinions or quotes to support this, so it doesnt change my mind. 
Mr E says NHBC is obliged to address the staining because of the certificate of guarantee it 
provided in December 2017. What I am able to consider within this case is limited to NHBCs 
actions as the insurer under the Buildmark policy. Because I dont consider the staining to be 
covered under the policy, this isnt something I can consider further. 
Overall, based on everything Ive seen on this complaint, I think NHBC has acted fairly when 
declining to cover the staining in line with the policy terms. For this reason, if Mr E feels further expert investigation or opinion is necessary, Id expect him to arrange this himself for 
NHBCs review. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman