DRN-1563902
Complaint
Mr and Mrs J says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a Mortgage 
Payment Protection Plan (PPI) in 2001. 
Background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr and Mrs J with an answer about this 
complaint. They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. They disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
I see Mr and Mrs J have used a third party company to help bring their complaint. And I note 
that on their behalf the company concerned puts forward a very large number of different 
reasons as to why this policy might have been mis-sold. Whilst I certainly dont doubt Mr and 
Mrs J may genuinely and honestly believe now that the policy was mis-sold, Im afraid I find 
the reasons put forward on their behalf to have been somewhat generic and unpersuasive.
Nevertheless, Ive started by thinking carefully about whether Mr and Mrs J ever agreed to 
take the PPI policy out when they were getting their mortgage. I think theres good evidence 
of this in the application form for Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance which 
both Mr and Mrs J signed. I accept this is all from 19 years ago, so they well not remember 
doing this. They were also sent a 'welcome letter' about the insurance. So this is obviously 
very strong evidence that Halifax properly obtained their consent.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs J because Halifax recommended 
this to them as part of an advised sale. 
I think it was suitable and I say this because they seem to have been eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. They may 
well already have had some sickness protection with their jobs. But Im afraid this doesnt 
mean the cover wasnt suitable for them. I think the mortgage was a significant and long-
term financial commitment and secured against their home. So the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other 
hand, was designed to pay a monthly sum if theyd needed to claim. I therefore think it was 
suitable.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
similar policies Ive seen, evidence that the costs were set out during the sale was usually 
present. I accept we no longer have all the sale paperwork respect of Mr and Mrs J, but I think its more likely they would have known what the cover was costing. I think they 
probably had enough information on which to make an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J. But to uphold this complaint Id need to think it 
was more likely they never gave their consent or that there were other flaws in the sale. I 
simply dont have that evidence and I think its more likely they tailored the cover to suit their 
needs of the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint and I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman