DRN-3427677
The complaint
Mr G complains about the level of service he received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) 
when he contacted them during an online chat.
What happened
Mr G opened an account with Santander in September 2021. At the time, they were offering 
an incentive to customers to switch. Mr G contacted Santander via their chat function at 
around 5pm on 18 October 2021 to ask about the switching incentive and when hell receive 
it.
During the chat, Santander said they were experiencing high volumes of chats, and so theyll 
get back to Mr G as soon as they could. They said that Mr G could log out and check back 
later on to see if Santander replied and that if he was using the mobile app, they would send 
a push notification out to him when they did reply.
A Santander representative provided some information to Mr Gs query and then closed the 
chat at around 5.24pm. 
Approximately 22 minutes later, at around 5.46pm, Mr G contacted Santander again to ask a 
follow up question.
An automated assistant, commonly referred to as a chat bot initially responded and didnt 
understand Mr Gs follow up question. He was then transferred to a Santander 
representative. The representative acknowledged the previous advisor shouldnt have closed 
the chat as quickly as he did and also helped Mr G with his question.
Mr G felt that Santander should acknowledge the inconvenience of the chat being closed 
and for having to wait for a response and so made a formal complaint to them.
Santander provided Mr G with their final response, where they apologised again for the 
service they had given. Mr G, unhappy with Santanders response, referred his complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator found that Santander didnt need to do anything further and their apology 
was enough as a resolution to this complaint.
Mr G disagreed with our investigator and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. And so it has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G is unhappy about the customer service he received from Santander during an online 
chat with them. He feels they wasted his time and shouldnt have closed a chat with him 
without asking.
I have reviewed a copy of the transcript of the chat Mr G had with Santander in October 
2021. I dont think Santander should have closed the chat when they did.
Santander has acknowledged they had made a mistake and shouldnt have ended it when 
they did. So, it isnt in dispute that Santander had made a mistake on this occasion. Ive 
gone on to consider whether Santanders response and apology was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Using financial services wont always be hassle free and may at times lead to issues which 
can commonly be considered nuisances of everyday life. Given that Santander had 
acknowledged their mistake early on, apologised to Mr G, and also helped support him with 
his initial query  all within a short amount of time  I think their response was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reason for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman