DRN-4333778
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr P borrowed £23,500 from Halifax on a personal loan. It was said to
be for home improvements and was payable over 48 months. Payments were £538.99 per
month. The loan was drawn and four monthly payments were made. The loan then fell into
arrears and after five missed payments, the loan was defaulted and passed to a debt
collection agency in November 2022.
Mr P complained. He said Halifax didnt complete the necessary checks. He had a lot of
other debts at the time which Halifax couldnt have taken into account. He said the default
was unfair. He said a previous complaint about the fairness of the default had been
investigated and it had been found that the loan wasnt affordable when the default took
place. So  he said the original lending decision must also have been wrong.
Mr P said the loan should be written off and the default removed from his credit file.
Halifax said Mr Ps application passed their credit checks. These included what they knew
about Mr P, plus information from credit reference agencies. Theyd used Mr Ps monthly
income and deducted from that his share of housing costs, and the contractual and minimum
payments due on other debts. An amount for living costs was also deducted. Mr Ps monthly
income was stated by him to be £2,650 and his share of housing costs were £350. After
calculating his other commitments, theyd agreed to lend the money. They declined to refund
any interest or write off the loan.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax had carried out proportionate
checks and had included an assessment of Mr Ps other borrowing. But she thought that the
payments to Mr Ps debts were 56% of his income, and that was high. She said Halifax
should refund the interest paid on the loan and remove the default from his credit file.
Mr P agreed. But Halifax didnt and set out more information on the checks theyd
completed. Because one party didnt agree, the complaint has come to me to look at.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether Halifax
acted in line within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules on creditworthiness
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender knew
about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
o the lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
o the greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
o the longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer
checks can be made.
Ive looked at Mr Ps complaint and the checks completed by Halifax in the light of this
guidance. And  I think Halifax did complete proportionate checks when Mr P applied for the
loan. Halifax showed us they worked out Mr Ps situation each month as:
Income Housing
costsUnsecured
credit
paymentsLiving
costsMonthly 
disposable
income (MDI)
£2,650 £350 £879 £434 £987
Halifax said that theyd worked out Mr P could afford the new monthly payments of £538 
against the MDI of £987.
The crux of Mr Ps complaint comes down to whether I consider what Halifax did to have
been reasonable and proportionate. I looked at each of Halifaxs calculations.
Income: Mr P told Halifax what his income was in his application  so thats not in dispute.
Housing costs (mortgage): I can see that Mr P had a mortgage with payments of around
£704 per month  so he said his share of that was 50% - £350  so that looked reasonable.
Living costs: Halifax said they worked out Mr Ps living costs from an internal model that
includes amounts to be spent on essential spend including utilities, groceries, clothing and 
commuting and considers also age, income, and area of the country. So  this looks
reasonable to me and is in line with the checks theyre required to make.
Unsecured credit payments: This is the important aspect here  as Mr P has said he had
other debts and significant commitments. If they were so  to the extent that the new loan
payments werent affordable - we would expect Halifax to have asked more questions. So  I
looked these closely as it appears from his bank statements that he had several other loans
and credit cards. We asked Mr P for his credit file to help us understand what was going on.
I can see that Mr P had three other loans (in addition to the mortgage) just prior to his
application to Halifax. They had total monthly payments of around £830. That looked high.
But  I can also see that he paid them off. One was repaid in May 2021, and the other two
were repaid in November 2021. It appears the latter two were paid off with the new loan from
Halifax. Because the loans were repaid  the payments of £830 stopped. So  I dont include
those.
I can see Mr P had at least five credit cards. The combined limits (not balances) in 2023were £31,400. That appears high, and I dont know exactly what the balances on the cards
were at the time. But I can see that Halifax worked out that based on the balances (taken
from Mr Ps credit file at the time), minimum payments were around £879 each month  and
based on the figures they worked out, that meant Mr P could afford the payments to the new
loan. Having looked the figures again, I think that was a reasonable conclusion for Halifax to
come to.
Its also fair to say that Halifax looked at how Mr P was managing his debts at the time. This
showed all accounts were paid to date, and there werent any arrears, defaults, or county
court judgments. I could also see that from Mr Ps credit file. Mr P was managing his debts
satisfactorily at the time. So  I can see why Halifax considered Mr P should be lent the
money.
Mr P has referred to a previous case which was brought to our service. He argues that
because that said he couldnt afford the repayments later (in August 2022) - that means the
original lending must have been wrong. I hear what he says, but I can only review and
consider what information Halifax had to go on at the time of his application in November
2021. I did note that in his previous complaint, Mr P said his situation had worsened in 2022
due to the cost of living rises and some unexpected costs  so it does appear that his
situation got worse later.
Therefore, having looked into what happened here, Im persuaded that Halifax did carry out
the necessary and proportionate credit checks when making the loan to Mr P. And this
provisional decision doesnt uphold Mr Ps complaint or ask Halifax to do anything here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Halifax made no comments, but Mr P did. He said:
1. He repeated that the loan was later deemed unaffordable and so the original lending 
must also have been flawed.
2. He paid off the two loans in November 2021 after the Halifax loan was agreed  so 
the information Halifax had when he applied for the loan must have shown the two 
loans that were later repaid. 
3. Halifaxs use of a computer model to work out his living costs was unrealistic. 
Halifax had his bank statements so they couldve seen his outgoings.
4. Halifax asked for detailed outgoings when he later asked for help, so to do that later 
and not when he applied for the loan wasnt fair or consistent.
I now need to consider these points and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On Mr Ps points (in order):
1. I dont agree that the two events can be so linked. Mr Ps later difficulties, and 
Halifaxs assessment of his situation then were necessarily based on his 
circumstances at that time. And it may well have been that they had changed in the 
meantime.
2. I appreciate what Mr P has said in his second point and Ive considered in detail the 
analysis Halifax did. Mr P had also sent to us his credit file  this shows two loans were repaid just after the Halifax loan was drawn. Mr Ps bank statements show the 
same. One loan was paid off (saving £171 per month) and another was paid off 
(saving £437 per month). Looking at Halifaxs analysis, if the two monthly payments 
continued, these wouldve reduced Mr Ps MDI (£987) by £608  to £379. And 
therefore, the new Halifax loan payments of £538 per month wouldnt have been 
easily affordable. So  the point Mr P makes needs to be considered.
Ive thought about what wouldve happened if Halifax asked him more questions 
about the two loans  and here, Im persuaded that Mr P wouldve told Halifax that he 
intended to pay them off  and so Halifax would likely have agreed to the loan in any 
case. I say that as - the two loans were paid off within days of the new Halifax loan 
being drawn  so its reasonable to assume that he always intended to do that and 
wouldve told Halifax so.
3. My role is to ensure Halifax made a reasonable judgment based on the information 
they had  and Halifaxs processes were to use credit reference agency data to work 
out Mr Ps living costs, which I can see they did. That would be normal banking 
practice. And - I cant challenge their processes in doing so. And  provided Mr P met 
Halifaxs lending criteria (which he did), the lending guidance which they had to 
comply with doesnt requite them to look at bank statements.
4. When Halifax looked at Mr Ps situation later  Halifax were required to follow 
guidelines for helping customers in financial difficulty. These were different to the 
guidelines that they were required to follow when agreeing to the loan in the first 
place. 
Therefore, having considered what Mr P has put back to us, my final decision is in line with 
the provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman