DRN-2910997
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).  
What happened
I provided my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree with the investigator that there is sufficient evidence this car has not been of
satisfactory quality I dont agree with the redress she proposed. I think the refund the
investigator suggested for loss of use is a little generous. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here was brand
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Mr D reported issues with the cars locking, the driver seat and the front parking sensors,
only a few weeks after he took receipt of the car.
Hed driven a very limited number of miles at that point so if a fault was diagnosed I think its
very likely the fault would have been present or developing when the car was supplied to
him. It would then have been the business responsibility to resolve.
The business fixed the locking and drivers seat problems, but they couldnt identify a fault
with the front parking sensors.
Mr D asserts that those sensors have an intermittent fault and hes provided video evidence
of them not picking up obstacles when they should do.
The independent inspector said that both the front and rear sensors were operating
effectively but he also noted that the rear sensors were more sensitive.
Im persuaded that its most likely there is an intermittent fault with the front sensors
because:
Mr D has provided compelling video evidence of the fault. The front sensors dont
beep or identify an obstacle, but the rear sensors do;
the inspector suggested that the rear sensors were more sensitive and I think its
reasonable to suggest both sets of sensors should be equally sensitive;
Mr D has explained that the fault is intermittent, and I think its therefore possible the
fault would not have shown itself during the independent inspection.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present
when a car is supplied. I think BMWFS had that opportunity in November 2019, but they
failed to rectify the problem, and, in those circumstances, the relevant legislation now allows
Mr D to reject the car.
BMWFS should refund the £750 deposit that Mr D paid and they should add 8% interest to
that refund because Mr D has been deprived of that money. They dont have to refund the
dealer contribution that was provided.
BMWFS should refund all the finance instalments but the relevant legislation allows them to
retain a portion in respect of the use the consumer has had from the car. The inspector
suggested they should refund 50% of the instalments that have been paid by Mr D, but I
think thats too generous.
On 26 November 2020 Mr D explained that hed covered 2,878 miles in the car in the first 13
months. Whilst the finance agreement was formulated on the basis that Mr D would
complete no more than 8,000 miles a year, its clear that the recent pandemic will have been
likely to have had a significant impact on the mileage Mr D completed in the first year. The
country was in lock down for about five months and for at least four months the advice was
to stay at home. So, I think its reasonable to suggest an average consumers annual 
mileage would reduce significantly in the year in question.
And, regardless of the lock down, I dont think failed sensors would prohibit Mr D driving the
car. Theres no suggestion that the engine didnt work properly or that any of the other
functions of the vehicle were impacted. So, whilst I accept that the problem will have been a
concern for Mr D, I think the lack of use was more limited. Im therefore expecting to tell
BMWFS to refund 20% of the instalments that were paid by Mr D from the inception of the
agreement when I think its clear the sensors were not working properly.
I think Mr D has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the
garage and hes had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been
resolved earlier. His enjoyment of the vehicle will also have been a little marred and, in the
circumstances, I would agree with the investigator that BMWFS should pay him £200
compensation.
Mr D has explained that hes subsequently had a problem with the exhaust flap motor on the
car. I dont think theres evidence that this fault was necessarily developing at the point of
supply when BMWFS were responsible for the cars quality. But I dont think that mattershere as Im expecting to ask BMWFS to reject the car anyway.
I understand that Mr D would like BMWFS to refund the unused part of his car insurance and
road tax. I dont think it would be fair for BMWFS to refund any road tax as I believe Mr D
can obtain a refund. I think hell also be able to get a refund for the unused portion of his car
insurance but if there are any cancellation charges he incurs as a consequence, I think it
would be fair for BMWFS to refund those, on provision of receipts.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell BMW
Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
allow Mr D to reject the car,
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr D;
refund Mr Ds £750 deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement;
refund 20% of Mr Ds finance instalments and add 8% simple interest per year from
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
refund any insurance cancellation cost Mr D incurs as a consequence of the cars
rejection;
remove any record of the finance agreement from Mr Ds credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr D nor BMWFS had anything further to add and both parties accepted my 
provisional decision.  
Putting things right
Ive not seen any reason to change my provisional decision and that therefore becomes my 
final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
allow Mr D to reject the car,
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr D;
refund Mr Ds £750 deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement;
refund 20% of Mr Ds finance instalments and add 8% simple interest per year from
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
refund any insurance cancellation cost Mr D incurs as a consequence of the cars
rejection;
remove any record of the finance agreement from Mr Ds credit file.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman