DRN-4082097
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have been charging him twice to hold items in a 
safety box with them.
What happened
Mr S says that in the 1980s he deposited an important cassette tape with Barclays 
Barclaysafe facility, which he was initially charged £1 a month, then £1.50 a month and then 
£3 a month. Mr S says Barclays wrote to him in December 2021 to inform him they would be 
stopping the safety storage facility and he had to collect the item. Mr S asked for the 
contents to be posted to him, and he took this to a Barclays branch to open the safety wallet 
in the presence of their staff. But there was no cassette in the wallet. He said Barclays 
added a life insurance policy to the safety deposit, and they have been charging him for this, 
despite him not asking for this to be stored and the policy being long since expired. He said 
he had no reason for this to be stored as he had a personal copy sent to his home. Mr S 
made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays did not uphold Mr S complaint, but they offered him £360 compensation as a 
goodwill gesture to cover the £3 a month charge he had been paying for the safety deposit 
facility. They said due to the time that had lapsed they were unable to complete a thorough 
investigation into what items he asked them to store as they dont hold sufficient records 
going back over 40 years. They said their records only indicated that they held the insurance 
documents and it was not possible to investigate what took place on his branch visit and the 
process that followed at that time to store his items. Mr S brought his complaint to our 
service. He said although he is not claiming for the lost cassette as he didnt have any 
paperwork to substantiate it was deposited with Barclays, he wanted to be refunded for the 
storage of the insurance document which he believed he was paying for the storage of his 
cassette instead. Based on the date of the insurance document, he wanted the refund going 
back to January 1997.
Our investigator thought the £360 offer from Barclays was fair. She said the evidence 
indicated that items were discharged from storage in 1978 and 1980, which potentially could 
have been the cassette Mr S remembers. This left no further items held with Barclays, 
hence, no charges for any type of storage on his account around 1980. She said it's possible 
he later deposited a document using the Barclaysafe Standard service in 1998, hence the 
charges on his statement appearing at this time. Internal policies at Barclays reflect that a 
cassette would not be permitted to be stored via this service.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he asked if he knew the insurance policy was being held in Barclaysafes standard 
service, why did he not cancel this when he cancelled the loan, there was no evidence he 
had authorised the storage of the document, as there was with the previous items deposited, 
there were two account numbers showing on the wallet, and he sent us an image of the 
Barclaysafe standard application form, but this was not signed by anyone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr S complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Some of the events here occurred at least 40 years ago and potentially up to 45 years ago. 
Even some of the more recent events were around 25 years ago. So due to the time thats 
passed, I need to make Mr S aware of the reality that nobody may be able to answer some 
of the questions he has. Im not persuaded that this automatically means that Barclays have 
done something wrong, its just that so long has passed that they are not required to hold 
data for decades after the event, and therefore that is why they may be unable to answer 
certain queries. 
Both parties have different opinions about what has happened here. When it comes to 
complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the evidence available to 
me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that is, whats 
more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the cassette tape being deposited in the 1980s. 
Barclays have been able to locate through a branch handwritten ledger that there were two 
deposits  one in 1978 and one in 1980 which were deposited with someone with the same 
initial as Mr S and the same surname that he has. This is not to say that he deposited both 
items  or either item, but there is a possibility that he did deposit his cassette tape in either 
one of these entries. Ive had a look at the handwritten ledger. The entry in 1978 just says 
what appears to be brown bag. But the item appears to have been discharged, or in other 
words, left the storage facility on 31 July 1978. This is marked in a different coloured pen to 
the original entry and there is red pen over the information which appears to be a staff 
signature. I say this as its unlikely a customer would have access to the handwritten ledger 
which would also display other customers items on this page. 
The item deposited in 1980 was deposited on 7 May 1980. It shows 1 locked wooden box 
was deposited. But again, just like the item deposited in 1978, this shows the item was 
discharged on either 13 June 1980 or 23 June 1980 (Im unable to decipher if the first digit is 
a one or a two), but the item again has red pen marking through it with what appears to be a 
staff signature (and a different signature to the 1978 discharged item). So if either of these 
items were deposited by Mr S, Im satisfied that these left Barclays storage facility within 
months of being deposited and therefore this couldnt be the same deposit as the insurance 
papers. 
Barclaysafe standard was introduced in 1998. Barclays have told us that fees were originally 
£3.00 per quarter. The fees changed to £1.50 per month in December 2003 then £3.00 per 
month in May 2009. They continued at £3.00 per month until it was withdrawn. They said this
service was usually used by customers to store important documents that they only needed
occasional access to, such as property deeds, policies or legal documents. Documents were
sealed in a special plastic wallet which could only be opened by the customer. The wallets 
were just bigger than A4 size and could hold approximately 200 sheets of paper. These wallets were metal detected on receipt at store and Barclays have said a cassette 
would be rejected and returned to the branch. Barclays have told us that the safe keeping 
services were offered on a sealed item basis, and Barclays were not party to the contents. 
They said that Barclaysafe wallets were plastic one use only and once they were opened by 
a customer they couldnt be reused. So on this basis, Im not persuaded that Mr S deposited 
his cassette in the Barclaysafe standard service. 
Barclays records show that they received Mr S wallet at their Barclaysafe storage centre 
and it remained in storage until returned to Mr S in early 2023. So as this appears to have 
been retained by the storage centre and not a branch, this would be why this would not be 
included in a handwritten ledger (as the contents were no longer recorded), and this was 
assigned a reference number. 
While Mr S is correct in saying there is no evidence to say he signed and authorised this 
deposit, its unlikely someone would have access to his insurance policy other than any 
named party on the document. On the balance of probabilities, I find it unlikely that a staff 
member would act on his behalf and send this to the storage facility and start charging Mr S 
without his authority. But even in the unlikely event this happened, Barclays have confirmed 
that Mr S was sent an advice letter to inform him of his wallet number following the 
introduction of him to the service and the Barclays wallet access line number was provided 
to him should he wish to access or withdraw his wallet. So if Mr S didnt agree to this, it 
wouldve been proportionate for him to query this letter with Barclays if he hadnt authorised 
the wallet being stored by Barclaysafe. 
And he was notified via letter regarding the price increases. So again, if Mr S was concerned 
he was being charged for something he didnt authorise, then he could have queried this 
with Barclays or withdrew his item. Ive considered what Mr S has said regarding if he knew 
the insurance policy was being held in Barclaysafes standard service, why did he not cancel 
this when he cancelled the loan. But by Mr S own admission, he thought he was paying for 
the cassette to be in storage, so that is why he wouldnt have cancelled the storage once the 
policy expired. And as this was in a sealed wallet, then Barclays wouldnt be aware of the 
item(s) that were deposited. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about there being two account numbers on the 
application form and that this wasnt signed. Barclays have confirmed to us that the wallets 
they originally used in 1998 showed evidence of deterioration of the plastic and this was 
identified at an early stage (which would be in line with what Mr S has told us about the 
condition of the wallet). Barclays said the plastic that the wallets were made of was not as 
robust, as anticipated, so remedial action was taken prior to wallets reaching a point 
whereby the integrity of the wallet was compromised. They said each wallet was placed 
inside a new clear wallet before the issue of them becoming unsecure arose. They said the 
original plastic wallet, was placed inside the more robust clear wallet, but it continued to 
deteriorate after the remedial action had been taken. Barclays also told us that the way in 
which the wallets were stored also meant that items couldnt slip out, as they were stored in 
crates. So this could explain why there were no signatures on the Barclaysafe application 
form wallets that they deposited the original packaging into.
While there are two account numbers on the newer packaging, I can see that one was 
crossed out and a different account number was underneath, But this is likely because as Mr 
S has told us, his previous account had been closed. Ive cross referenced the new account 
number they added to this packaging and I can see it is the same account number as the 
account Mr S was using to pay for the storage. I asked Barclays about the other account 
number and they confirmed that this was for an instant savings account, so I can confirm to 
Mr S that this had nothing to do with a business account, as this was a personal account 
number.As Barclays said that the deposit happened in June 1998. Barclays managed to locate 
transactions from Mr S bank account. One of these statements shows transactions between 
22 November 1997 and 20 February 1998. There were no transactions for any storage 
facilities during this time. As Barclays have said that there was a quarterly charge prior to 
2003, and because this statement period covers three months, I would expect there to be a 
storage fee showing on this statement, but there isnt. This indicates to me that Mr S was not 
paying for a cassette to be stored (or anything to be stored at this time) and this supports 
what the handwritten ledger shows in that the items were discharged only months after being 
deposited. 
I asked Barclays if they had any statements prior to this and they confirmed that the earliest 
statement they had access to was the November 1997 statement I referenced in my 
previous paragraph. The evidence available to me, (namely that the deposits in 1978 and 
1980 were discharged and the November 1997-20 February 1998 statement not showing a 
storage fee), does support that on the balance of probabilities, that the envelope Mr S was 
sent from storage in 2023 was deposited in 1998. And while I cant rule this out, Im not 
persuaded that Mr S was charged a storage fee between an item being discharged from 
Barclays over 40 years ago and 1998.  
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. As there is no evidence 
to suggest they held his cassette tape until 2023 and that Mr S ought to have been 
reasonably aware of the deposit in 1998, the welcome letter, the fees debiting his account 
etc, then Im satisfied that Barclays offer to refund him £360 is fair. So it follows Ill be asking 
Barclays to pay this to Mr S, but I dont require them to do anything further.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £360 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S £360 (less anything they 
have already paid him). But I wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman