DRN-4286937
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the length of time its taken for Nationwide Building Society to 
remove her from an account she held jointly with her now ex-partner.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In January 2020 Miss H and her now ex-partner (Mr H) completed two separate requests 
for Miss H to be removed from the two joint, current accounts they held with Nationwide. 
One request was actioned promptly, but the other was held pending further checks. 
Miss H was eventually removed from the account at the end of March 2023, after both 
she and Mr H raised complaints with Nationwide.
Nationwide said it couldnt remove Miss H from the account in 2020 because she didnt 
respond when it asked her to. But it accepts it ought to have removed her, following 
further contact, in May 2022. So it agreed with our investigators recommendation to pay 
Miss H £600 compensation to recognise its failings and the impact this had on Miss H.
Miss H didnt think the offer of compensation was sufficient, given the length of time, and 
impact caused, by the societys mistake. So the complaint came to me.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month which explained why I thought the outcome 
the investigator had reached was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I have 
reproduced my provisional findings below:
I would first say that Mr H and Miss H have both raised complaints about this matter and 
Nationwide dealt with those complaints separately. Mr H and Miss H are aware of, and have 
each consented to, the others complaint being brought to this service. But neither is now 
party to the others complaint. I think thats appropriate given the current situation. I have 
considered both complaints in parallel as they share a lot of common evidence.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And, having done so, I think Nationwide 
ought to have removed Miss H from the joint account in January 2020. But I also think 
Miss H ought to have realised sooner that this hadnt been done and taken steps herself to 
sort this out. With this in mind, I currently think that £600 compensation is a fair and 
reasonable award  Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr H and Miss H submitted a form to Nationwide in January 2020 
asking it to remove Miss H from their joint account. But Nationwide says she wasnt removed 
at that point because it needed to check she agreed to the request. The evidence suggests it 
wrote to Miss H at the address Nationwide held for her, asking her to get in touch, but she 
didnt do so. 
I dont dispute Nationwides suggestion that its entitled to carry out checks to verify this type 
of request when it deems such to be necessary. However, its also now become clear that 
Mr H and Miss H submitted a separate request for Miss H to be removed from their other 
joint current account on the same day. And that request was actioned promptly, without any 
additional checks. Nationwide hasnt provided me with a copy of that other form or explained 
why that request was actioned while the other one needed additional verification. Both 
accounts ought to have been linked to Miss Hs one customer profile. And, in the absence of 
supporting evidence, I can only conclude that Nationwide ought to have removed Miss H 
from both accounts in 2020.
As noted above, Miss H was eventually removed from the second account at the end of 
March 2023. Miss H says she has suffered three years of inconvenience as a result of not 
being removed from the account in 2020. She also says the delays have prevented her from 
obtaining a mortgage at the interest rates that were available in 2020 and which are 
considerably lower than the rates currently available. With this in mind, she thinks she 
should receive a higher amount of compensation and that Nationwide should offer her a 
mortgage based on the interest rates that were available in 2020. Ive considered Miss Hs 
comments carefully but have also taken the following into account:
Its my understanding that Miss H had already moved house when she asked to be 
removed from the account and so no longer lived at the address that Nationwide held for 
her. The account removal form she completed in January 2020 said at the top If any 
account holder has changed their address a Change of Address form must also be 
completed. Miss H says she and/or Mr H told Nationwide this and gave it her new 
contact details. But Ive seen no evidence to support this. 
Nationwide said it called Miss H after receiving the January 2020 form but was 
unsuccessful in contacting her  Ive seen no supporting evidence of that call attempt. 
But Nationwide has also provided a copy of a letter dated 21 July 2020 asking her to get 
in touch about Removal of Account Holder. Its not clear why it took the society seven 
months to send this letter after receiving the form and its customer notes give no 
additional detail about this. But what I do note is that the letter was sent to the address 
Nationwide held at that time for Miss H. She says shed already moved out, but I 
understand the property was still owned jointly by Mr H and Miss H until it was sold at the 
end of 2020. And Mr H was still living there at that time. So its not clear to me why the 
societys letter didnt reach Miss H either having been passed on by Mr H or, if that 
wasnt a suitable arrangement given their relationship at the time, why Miss H didnt have 
a formal mail redirection arrangement in place.
Nationwide didnt have Miss Hs new address, but it did hold her correct (and still current) 
email address and mobile phone number. With this in mind, Nationwide says Miss H 
would have been sent monthly emails advising her that her account statement was ready 
to view. Those statements show that the account was still in joint names. And the society 
also sent texts, on occasion, as Miss H had opted into the text alert balance system. I 
have no reason to doubt that Miss H would have received these emails and texts. I say 
that, not least, because she has confirmed she was receiving them and shared one of 
the emails with us, from March 2023. If Miss H thought the necessary steps have been 
completed in order to remove her from all of the accounts she held with Nationwide, then 
I have difficulty understanding why she didnt contact them sooner having received such 
emails and texts over the years. Nationwide says Miss H is signed up to online banking 
but it hasnt provided her online account activity. So I cant see if she logged on to her 
account between January 2020 and 2022. But I think, having received the monthly 
statement emails, she ought reasonably to have known she was still party to the account 
and made contact herself with the society to sort this out if it isnt what she wanted. Miss H says she applied for a mortgage with Nationwide at some point in 2020. But its 
clear that she didnt proceed with the mortgage or buying a house at that time. She 
hasnt said why but I cant rule out the possibility that other factors were at play here 
which prevented her from proceeding. But if it was solely down to the fact she hadnt 
been removed from the joint account earlier that year then I dont see why she didnt try 
personally to sort that issue out then. Yet Nationwides records indicate the first contact 
she made with it about this matter was in 2022. 
I think its possible Miss H knew she was still party to the account but sorting this out 
wasnt a priority at the time given the account was used for very few payments and it 
only became a priority in May 2022 when Miss H was trying to get a mortgage.
Miss H says the mortgage applications she made in 2022 were declined solely because 
she was still linked to the joint account. Nationwide has accepted that it ought to have 
removed her in May 2022 after a new removal form was submitted and, in February 
2023, has written a letter confirming as much for Miss H to share with the credit 
reference agencies. However, this letter was sent to the address Miss H shared with 
Mr H and which she moved away from in 2020. I believe Nationwide now has Miss Hs 
correct address as the statement email it sent her in March 2023 shows her current 
postcode. But its not clear when Miss H gave the society her new address. Its possible 
Miss H would benefit from Nationwide reissuing this letter to her correct address, so I 
think it should do so now.
Given everything Ive said, and in all the circumstances of this complaint, I currently consider 
£600 to be a fair and reasonable award.
In response to my provisional decision, Nationwide reiterated that its internal process 
relating to account holder removal allows it to write to customers to authenticate them and it 
followed that process in relation to the account in question. It also confirmed that it has 
received Miss Hs new address and would reissue the February 2023 letter I referenced in 
my provisional decision.
Miss H confirmed receipt of the letter and advised that this has been shared with the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs). She also noted, in summary that:
The CRAs have said removal from the joint account and time are the only things that will 
bring her credit score back up to a suitable level and this could take up to three years.
She had a good credit score before this issue arose. Nationwides failure to remove her 
from the account promptly has negatively affected her score and, as a result, her overall 
financial situation and her mental health.
The only reason she wasnt granted a mortgage was because of her links to the joint 
account and both she and Mr H asked Nationwide, on numerous occasions, to remove 
her. When she initially realised this hadnt been done, she didnt think it would affect her 
credit score.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Nationwides reference to its internal process and I accept that, on occasion, it may 
need to authenticate its customers. But, given the inconvenience and delays this can cause, 
I would expect there to be a specific reason that warrants that authentication such as a signature mismatch on the form or some other concerns about the veracity of the request. 
Nationwide has still not explained why it needed to authenticate Miss H and its decision to 
do so on one of the joint accounts is entirely at odds with the decision not to do so, at the 
same time, on the other joint account. 
I note Miss Hs additional comments and it seems she now accepts that she knew she hadnt 
been removed from the account in 2000 but didnt take action to rectify this until 2022 
because she didnt realise it might have some detrimental impact. I remain satisfied that 
Nationwide ought to have removed Miss H from the account in 2000 but, for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision, Im also still satisfied that she could have done more to put 
the situation right. I think Nationwide, Miss H and Mrs H all have some responsibility here for 
things having not gone according to plan.
In, all the circumstances, I still think £600 compensation is a fair and reasonable award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £600 compensation to 
Miss H. It should do so within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Miss H accepts my 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman