DRN-3394776
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made under 
his home insurance policy for subsidence.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mr C got in touch with Fairmead in September 2019 to make a claim for damage to 
his property.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster, S, to investigate the claim. It initially said it didnt 
think the damage had been caused by subsidence and declined the claim.
Mr C provided information to challenge this view, including a report from N, a 
structural engineer.
After further discussion, S agreed to carry out an investigation into the soil beneath 
the damaged area of the house. After that it agreed to carry out level monitoring.
By January 2021, S said there had been no significant movement. And it didnt think 
there was any evidence of the building subsiding. It thought the problem related to 
movement of a steel beam beneath the floor. Mr C disagreed and complained.
Fairmead said monitoring would continue to achieve a full year of readings. Then the 
situation could be assessed again. It accepted the service it had offered during the 
claim had fallen short of expectations. This was due to delays responding to Mr C 
and delays progressing the claim. It apologised and offered £500 compensation.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He made a number of points but, in 
summary, he thought there was sufficient evidence available to show that his 
property was suffering from subsidence damage and the claim should be accepted.
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to continue to monitor as it had proposed. And whilst she agreed the claim 
could have been handled better, she thought £500 was reasonable compensation. 
Noting that Mr C had paid for Ns report and that had prompted S to continue with the 
claim, she thought Fairmead should reimburse the cost. It agreed to do so.
Mr C didnt think our investigator had reached a fair outcome. He provided further 
comments and information. He then took advice from another structural engineer, G, 
who recommended further investigations. Fairmead agreed to carry these out. But it 
maintained it hadnt accepted the subsidence claim.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive read and thought about everything said by both parties, I wont comment 
on all of it. Ill only comment on the points I consider to be relevant to the outcome of 
the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal 
nature of this service.
The scope of this complaint was initially about the way the claim was handled from 
the beginning, in September 2019, until Fairmeads response to Mr Cs complaint in 
May 2021. 
Mr C took further advice in November 2021 and Fairmead has responded to it. So I 
think it would be beneficial to consider the claim up until February 2022  when 
Fairmead agreed to carry out further investigations.
Mr C has indicated he may have other matters hes unhappy with, such as the 
cancellation of his policy in early 2021. And he may become unhappy with how the 
claim is handled after February 2022. Hes entitled to raise separate complaints 
about those matters if he wishes.
Initial claim decline
Fairmead has accepted that the decision to decline the claim initially was 
unreasonable. So I dont think this point is in dispute or needs further comment. The 
question for me is what Fairmead should do to put that right.
If S had arranged for the subsoil investigation and monitoring from the outset, the 
claim would have progressed many months sooner. During that time Mr C thought 
the claim wasnt going to be investigated at all, which would have been distressing. 
And when he got in contact to express his concerns, there were delays answering 
him. That would have added to his distress. Ive taken that into account when 
thinking about compensation.
As a result of the claim being declined, Mr C turned to a structural engineer for 
advice. Ns report led to S investigating the claim further. Fairmead has accepted this 
means it would be reasonable for Mr C to be reimbursed the cost of Ns report, which 
was £672. I agree.
Policy cover
Mr C has referred to Fairmead applying a retrospective condition requiring the 
property to be distortion free and with no history of subsidence at the time he took out 
the policy. But that isnt what its doing. Ill clarify what the policy covers and what I 
would usually expect Fairmead to do when it accepts a subsidence claim.
I understand Mr C has continuously insured the property with Fairmead and its 
predecessors since he bought it in 1993.The policy covers the cost of repairing damage caused in certain ways  but only 
when caused during the period of time the policy is in place. That means it doesnt 
cover any damage, distortion or defect that existed prior to the policy starting in 1993.
One of the causes covered by the policy is subsidence. The policy defines 
subsidence to mean downward movement of the ground beneath the buildings that 
is not the result of settlement. So if any damage has been caused in that way since 
1993, its covered by the policy. Damage caused in other ways wont be covered, 
unless its a result of something else the policy covers, like fire or flood. But I dont 
think any such causes are relevant here.
If Fairmead were to accept a claim for subsidence, it would be responsible for 
carrying out a lasting and effective repair of the subsidence damage caused during 
the policy. That may mean its fair to carry out other, uninsured work, if its necessary 
in order to achieve a lasting and effective repair of the subsidence damage. For 
example, that may include stabilisation work if the movement cant be stopped by 
other means, such as repairing a leaking drain.
Mr C has made reference to damage Fairmead may have dealt with for a previous 
owner of the property in the 1970s. Fairmeads duty to Mr C began when the policy 
started in 1993. The information provided about what happened in the 70s may help 
Fairmead investigate the cause of the current problem and may be useful if it accepts 
the claim and carries out any work. But I cant consider what, if anything, Fairmead 
did prior to Mr C owning the property from 1993. It wont change the cover provided 
by Mr Cs policy outlined above.
I think the key point to consider is whether the available evidence shows there has 
likely been subsidence damage since the policy began in 1993.
Investigation and monitoring
N thought there was evidence of downward movement as a result of subsidence. So 
I think it was right that Fairmead agreed to consider the claim and carry out 
investigations.
Its common industry practice to investigate the foundation and subsoil detail to help 
decide whether a building is suffering from subsidence  and, if so, what the likely 
cause is. So I think it was reasonable for S to do this.
S then decided to setup level monitoring to assess the movement of the building. 
Thats commonly used to help judge whether the building is suffering from 
subsidence. By its nature it takes time to collect readings and provide meaningful 
data but its a valuable source of information. As there was uncertainty and 
disagreement about the nature and extent of current movement, I think it was a 
reasonable thing to do.
There were regular readings, about six weeks apart, from when the monitoring was 
setup in June 2020 until January 2021. There followed a gap of around four months 
until another reading was taken just before the complaint response.
Its unclear why there was a gap, but it appears Fairmead were weighing up the next 
steps for the claim and this took longer than it should have done. As readings have 
continued afterward, I dont think this has caused a problem. But it would have been 
preferable to continue regular readings and/or make a prompt decision about the next steps and communicate that to Mr C. Ive taken this into account when 
considering compensation.
In May 2021, Fairmead wasnt persuaded the degree of movement indicated an 
active subsidence problem. It thought any downward movement recorded in the 
readings was due to the deflection of the beam, rather than the ground beneath the 
building. But it agreed to continue monitoring. As there continued to be disagreement 
about the nature of the problem, Im satisfied that was reasonable.
I say that because in early 2021, S didnt think there had been significant downward 
movement that would indicate subsidence. I agree that the extent of movement 
recorded then wasnt at a level generally accepted to show subsidence. However, S 
noted that if the monitoring did show downward movement of the foundation, the 
damage would be covered as subsidence. So I think it was open to the possibility 
that continued monitoring might reveal a subsidence problem that would be covered 
by the policy. And that statement was in keeping with the cover provided by the 
policy, including the definition of subsidence.
Mr C was concerned about many aspects of the way the claim had been handled. 
But he said he welcomed further monitoring. So I think Fairmead acted reasonably by 
continuing to collect monitoring information to understand more about the movement 
of the building.
S took another four readings up to October 2021.
G produced a report in November 2021, with the benefit of the investigations and 
monitoring carried out by S. It thought the damage was consistent with subsidence, 
but the cause of the movement hadnt been determined.
It noted the findings of the earlier soil investigation but thought the results were 
inconclusive. It recommended more thorough investigations should be carried out, 
including testing the drainage and water system.
It observed a general downward trend in the monitoring but said it was difficult to 
interpret accurately as a fixed reference point hadnt been used. It recommended 
monitoring should continue for at least 12 months, with a fixed reference point, and 
with crack monitoring.
G said the results of the investigations and monitoring should be used to determine 
the cause of the movement and inform the next steps.
S remained unconvinced the movement was caused by subsidence, but it agreed to 
carry out the further investigations and monitoring G recommended.
Overall, there clearly remains disagreement about whether theres an active 
subsidence problem. Im not persuaded based on the current evidence its been 
shown there is likely to be an active subsidence problem, although the possibility 
remains that there is. With both experts agreeing a number of further investigations 
and monitoring are beneficial to understand the nature and cause of the movement, I 
think its reasonable to reserve judgement on whether theres an active subsidence 
problem until the results are available.
However, even if I thought there was active subsidence, the next steps would be the 
same regardless. S has agreed to carry out Gs recommendations  and that will 
provide information with which to make an informed decision.As investigation and monitoring information is collected, I would expect S to continue 
sharing it with Mr C. And, after the 12 months of monitoring G recommended, S 
should provide Mr C with its findings about the cause of the movement and explain 
the impact on the claim.
Mr C said he thought some of the monitoring points were located in the wrong places 
because they were on an internal partition wall  so they wouldnt show foundation 
movement even if there was any. S agrees that some of the points wont measure 
subsidence  but it says they will measure deflection of the beam that was found 
under the wall. Other points will measure subsidence as theyre located on walls with 
foundations.
Im satisfied by the answer S has provided to this point. It means the monitoring will 
serve its primary purpose of showing how much foundation movement there is. It will 
also help by showing whether the beam is deflecting. I think thats a reasonable 
approach to take. Whilst G thought a fixed reference point would make the data 
easier to interpret, it didnt find the monitoring points unhelpful or misplaced.
Mr C has mentioned a number of times that hes concerned Fairmead has acted 
fraudulently or negligently. Its not the role of this service to make a finding about 
that. But Ive seen no evidence that Fairmead, or S, has acted dishonestly or sought 
to decline a claim it thinks should be covered.
Fairmead has conceded the claim could have been handled better. And clearly a 
dispute remains about the cause of the damage. But ultimately, it simply didnt think 
the evidence showed the damage had been caused by subsidence  but it was 
continuing investigations and agreed to reconsider the position once further evidence 
was available. I dont think thats unreasonable.
Putting things right
Having thought about the avoidable distress caused to Mr C, Im satisfied £500 is 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
There have been some delays and poor communication, but the main reason for the 
length of the claim is the monitoring. Whilst G thought it could have been more 
effective, it didnt go so far as to say the monitoring S carried out was ineffective. So I 
think its added value and consequently it doesnt amount to an avoidable or 
unreasonable delay.
All experts involved have noted that the nature of the problem is unusual. And if it is 
shown the property is suffering from subsidence, its unlikely to be a typical case 
where repairing a drain or removing a tree will resolve the problem. Because of that, I 
dont think it was unreasonable to spend time collecting more information to 
understand the movement over a period of time. But there have been avoidable 
delays at times and I think its fair thats compensated for.
Fairmead has already agreed to pay the cost of Ns report, which is £672.
I think it should also pay the cost of Gs report, which is £750. Its unclear to me what 
position Fairmead had taken when monitoring ceased in late 2021. But I dont think it 
included further investigations or monitoring with a fixed reference point. Its agreed 
to do those things as a result of Gs report. So I think its fair Mr C is reimbursed the 
cost of it.If Fairmead has already paid any of these amounts to Mr C, it doesnt need to pay 
them again.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead accepted the findings of my provisional decision and didnt add further comment.
Mr C responded to make a number of points.
Ive considered all of them but, as with my provisional decision, Ill only comment on the 
points I consider to be relevant to the outcome of the complaint. Ill focus on the three main 
areas Mr C commented on  the scope of the policy cover, the cause of the damage, and 
the way the claim has been handled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I have taken into account 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Policy cover
Mr C asked me to clarify what his policy covers. He questioned whether Fairmead had 
agreed to provide additional cover from 1993 and, in particular, whether it had agreed to 
provide cover for the weight of the building causing the beam to deflect.
From what Mr C has said, I understand hes asking whether Fairmead extended the policy 
cover to provide some kind of indemnity for the work it had carried out in the 1970s. He says 
the mortgage lender wanted cover in addition to a standard home policy.
I said in my provisional decision that the policy only covers damage caused in certain ways. 
One such cause is subsidence and that seems to be the only one relevant to this claim. 
Damage caused in other ways wont be covered. So Im not satisfied the policy would cover 
damage caused by the weight of the building causing the beam to deflect. Nor am I satisfied 
the policy provides additional cover along the lines Mr C described. Ill explain why.
Most home insurance policies provide cover for the same standard causes of damage, such 
as fire, flood and subsidence, which are often known as the insured perils or simply perils.
Generally, insurers are less inclined to offer home insurance for properties with a history of 
subsidence. They may decline to offer any cover  or if they provide cover it may be on 
reduced terms. For example, excluding subsidence. Because of this, its usual good industry 
practice for an insurer to continue offering home insurance cover, including subsidence, after 
it has dealt with a subsidence claim at a property  even if ownership changes. That ensures 
the homeowner, and future homeowners they may sell to, are able to access standard home 
insurance, without significant restriction or limitation as a result of the subsidence problem.
I understand work was carried out in the 1970s to deal with damage caused by subsidence. 
So when Mr C was in the process of buying the house in 1993, clarification of cover was 
sought from Fairmead.It said at the time, I am pleased to confirm that we are happy to provide cover for [Mr Cs 
property] without any exclusions to any of the perils. And shortly after, Mr Cs solicitor said 
Fairmead had confirmed, full perils cover is available.
Im satisfied that means Fairmead offered standard home insurance, in keeping with good 
industry practice. It didnt seek to restrict or limit cover for the usual insured perils. In 
particular, it didnt mention excluding subsidence cover.
Mr C has provided notes from 1993 which indicate the mortgage lender said it would be 
prudent to obtain cover against any risk of the future occurrence of settlement or land 
heave. The word settlement is often used interchangeably with subsidence. Its other 
meaning is usually the compression of the soil beneath the building, soon after construction. 
This is generally considered to last for up to ten years, but usually less. Given the house was 
much older than this in 1993, Im satisfied the lender was referring to subsidence.
Fairmeads policy provides the kind of cover the mortgage lender mentioned. It covered the 
risk of subsidence  and heave  occurring from 1993 onwards. Thats consistent with the 
lender suggesting cover for future subsidence or heave would be wise. The notes dont 
indicate the lender suggested anything else beyond the standard insured perils should be 
included in the policy. Theres nothing to indicate it suggested, for example, indemnity cover 
for previous work should be sought.
Im not persuaded the evidence shows Fairmead agreed to extend the cover beyond the 
insured perils listed in the policy. It didnt say or indicate it was offering to provide additional 
cover for the weight of the building causing the beam to deflect or any other cover in relation 
to the work carried out in the 1970s.
Whilst Fairmead, like any insurer, could offer to extend the cover beyond a standard home 
insurance policy, to include the kind of indemnity cover Mr C has described would, in my 
experience, be very unusual. And if this kind of extension were made, it would likely be 
specified in the policy documentation. All the documents Ive seen show Fairmeads policy to 
be consistent with standard home insurance. I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
extended cover along these lines has been included.
Cause of damage
Mr C has asked whether by upholding his complaint, its confirmed an insured event or peril 
has occurred.
I set out in my provisional decision why I wasnt persuaded there was an active subsidence 
problem, based on the evidence available. And whilst I upheld the complaint, I didnt ask 
Fairmead to accept the claim for subsidence.
However, I explained why I thought it should carry out the investigations and monitoring 
recommended by G  and why I was satisfied these were the appropriate next steps, 
regardless of whether the claim was accepted or not at this time. Fairmead has agreed to do 
that and use the results to inform its decision about whether to accept the claim.
Mr C asked for clarification about my reference to active subsidence. As I set out before, 
any damage caused by subsidence since 1993 is covered by the policy. So, in principle, 
subsidence damage need not be active in order to be covered  it need only to have 
happened since 1993. The question for me is whether the evidence shows this is likely to be 
the case.To answer that question, I place most weight on the opinions of the experts  N, G and S. All 
are appropriately qualified and experienced structural engineers and are members of 
relevant professional bodies. I mean no disrespect to Mr C but I dont find his opinion about 
the cause of the damage and the investigations carried out as relevant and persuasive as 
hes not an expert in this subject matter. So whilst I recognise hes taken a lot of time and 
effort to set out his opinion in detail, and Ive considered what hes said, Ive placed more 
weight and focus on the views expressed by the experts.
Ive considered their reports and, in my view, they all focus on establishing whether there is 
an active subsidence problem. I dont think any of the experts have identified subsidence 
damage after 1993 and prior to the start of the claim in 2019  theyve given their views on 
whether a subsidence problem is on-going and causing damage currently.
I understand Mr C has been in touch with G since I issued my provisional decision. Theyve 
provided S with information about the investigations to be carried out. But no further 
evidence has been submitted at this stage. Nevertheless, Ive considered the expert reports 
again before reaching my final decision.
N thought there was a subsidence problem. It reached this opinion prior to the investigations 
and monitoring taking place, so Im not satisfied its opinion is as persuasive or relevant as 
those of S or G, who have had the benefit of much more engineering information with which 
to form an opinion.
S isnt persuaded theres a subsidence problem at the property. In summary, it thinks the 
problem has been caused by the deflection of the beam  which doesnt, in itself, amount to 
subsidence.
G said there was a subsidence problem. It described the claim as not routine subsidence 
and complex and noted further investigation and monitoring was required to determine how 
and why the building was affected by subsidence type damage. I think S agrees this isnt a 
typical subsidence case as its carried out more monitoring than usual  and agreed to 
significant investigations and further monitoring.
Whilst S and G have differing views about the cause of damage, they agree on the next 
steps for the claim and theres no reason why it shouldnt progress. With both experts 
recognising this as an unusual and complex case and with significant further investigations 
to carry out to understand the problem better, I dont think Fairmead is treating Mr C unfairly 
by not accepting the claim to date. Given the uncertainty about the nature of the problem 
and the extent of the information to gather, I think its reasonable for Fairmead to reserve 
judgement until more is known.
Claim handling
Mr C has accepted what I said in my provisional decision about not being able to make a 
finding about whether Fairmead acted fraudulently or negligently. His response included 
further information about these points. So I thought it would be helpful to clarify that I can 
consider whether Fairmead handled the claim fairly and reasonably.
Mr Cs concerns stem from the time when Fairmead offered him home insurance in 1993. 
Hes suggested it would have been professionally negligent of Fairmead to offer enhanced 
cover without having relevant evidence on file, such as specifications of the work carried out 
in the 1970s. Or that having such evidence and not sharing it with the relevant parties during 
the claim would amount to fraud.Ive explained above why Im satisfied the available evidence shows Fairmead offered 
standard home insurance in 1993  without any extension, such as indemnity cover for the 
work carried out in the 1970s.
Because of that, I dont think Fairmead was obliged to have on file the kind of evidence Mr C 
has described. It seems to have been aware it was offering cover for a property with a 
history of subsidence. That means taking a degree of risk, but an insurer is welcome to do 
that if it wishes. It can set terms such as the premium and excess to manage that risk. And, 
as I set out above, its good industry practice for the insurer who handled the previous claim 
to offered continued home insurance.
I havent seen anything to suggest Fairmead has withheld relevant information during the 
claim. There have been some avoidable delays and there remains disagreement amongst 
the experts about the cause of the problem. Those delays mean Fairmead hasnt always 
treated Mr C fairly and reasonably. Im satisfied its offer of £500 compensation puts that 
right. And the investigations its agreed to carry out will help to inform the experts about the 
cause of the problem. But Im not persuaded the evidence shows Fairmead has been 
dishonest or deliberately misled Mr C at any point.
Summary
Overall, I havent been persuaded the current evidence shows the property is suffering from 
subsidence. So I dont require Fairmead to accept the claim for subsidence.
But Fairmead has agreed to carry out the investigations and monitoring recommended by G. 
And once those results are available, it should consider whether that evidence shows the 
property is suffering from subsidence  and therefore whether it should accept the claim for 
subsidence. It should let Mr C know its view on this when the time comes.
Putting things right
Prior to my provisional decision, Fairmead had agreed to pay £500 compensation and £672 
for Ns report. It had also agreed to carry out the investigations and monitoring 
recommended by G. In response, it has agreed to pay £750 for Gs report. 
Mr C hasnt commented on these aspects of my provisional decision, so I understand he 
agrees theyre fair. Because both parties are agreed on these points, I wont comment on 
them further, other than to confirm I still consider them a fair way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Carry out the investigations and monitoring recommended by G
Pay £500 compensation
Pay £672 for Ns report
Pay £750 for Gs report
Fairmead must pay these amounts, if it hasnt done so already, within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on these amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.If interest is paid and Fairmead considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman