DRN-3369670
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited calculated her 
financial loss for mis-selling her a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) plan.
What happened
Mrs W was a teacher when, in 1991, Aviva recommended she take out a FSAVC plan. She 
had been working as a teacher for over ten years at the time of advice and was in her late 
30s. Given the age that she started paying into her pension scheme, there was going to be 
a shortfall of around five years in her maximum service under the scheme rules. 
In 2020, Aviva accepted that the FSAVC had been mis-sold to Mrs W. It did so on the 
basis that it could not show she was made aware of the in-house Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (AVC) plan, available to members of the Teachers Pension Scheme at 
the time of advice.
Aviva said it would carry out a loss calculation on the basis that Mrs W wouldve opted in 
to the in-house AVC option. 
Mrs W said, through her representative, that the calculation should assume that Mrs W 
would have opted to purchase added years, if given better advice, rather than joining the 
Teachers Pension Scheme AVC plan.
Mrs W referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and concluded 
that Avivas redress methodology was fair and reasonable in Mrs Ws circumstances.    
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators view and so her complaint has been referred to 
me to issue a decision on.
Mrs Ws representative said on her behalf, in summary:
it cant be known what Mrs W would have done at the time, so the outcome of this 
case is based on opinion. Her circumstances at the time should be what is 
considered;
she had been a teacher for 10+years, so likely had good future job prospects. 
Likely she would have had significant pay increases over time 
she had no risk-based products in 1991 other than a mortgage endowment policy 
supporting an interest only mortgage.
it was not relevant that Mrs W had stopped payments into the FSAVC in 2003. Or 
that when she took advice in 2008, she did not opt to buy added years. By then 
added years were no longer available and even if they had been, they would have 
been at astronomic cost with only five years to go to retirement. 
they disagreed that the in-house money purchase AVC was cheaper. The 
argument should be about whether the consumer was able to purchase some 
added years to increase their guaranteed retirement provision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that the FSAVC was mis-sold. What is in dispute, and therefore what I 
have to decide, is whether the loss calculation should be carried out on an added years 
basis, as Mrs W says, or based on her joining her employers AVC, which Aviva says..
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must reach a conclusion on what I think is 
most likely to have happened at the time, in light of the available evidence. There isnt any 
documentation from the time of sale that shows that purchasing added years or the in-
house AVC was discussed.
The fact that Mrs W was looking to increase her private pension provision leads me to 
conclude that she intended to carry on working. Given her profession and the duration she 
had been working as a teacher, I think it likely that she intended to continue working in the 
teaching profession.
Added years
As our investigator explained, at the time of advice. purchasing added years was generally 
seen as an expensive and inflexible option, when compared to joining an AVC. An in-
house AVC was also generally expected at the time of sale to provide better returns than 
has turned out to be the case. 
Balanced against that, had Mrs W purchased added years instead of paying into a money 
purchase scheme, it would have provided her with guaranteed retirement income. Based 
on the limited information available to me, I cant fairly conclude that Mrs W was against 
risk-based products, such that the certainty of a guaranteed pension would have been a 
determining factor.
Had Mrs W purchased added years she would have had to pay a proportion of her salary 
until retirement, to purchase those added years. Her representative said this would have 
been around 0.95% of her salary for each added year. The added years contribution would 
also have had to increase in line with salary, based on Mrs W working until her normal 
retirement age. Based on what I have seen, I cant know what was in Mrs Ws mind about 
career progression at that time or whether she saw herself working to normal retirement 
age.
FSAVC
Mrs W purchased an AVC plan in 1991, paying £25 per month, which I understand was 
1.75% of her salary at the time. She agreed to index link the contributions so they 
increased annually in line with the retail prices index. I think it likely that the contribution she 
chose would have been based on what she felt she could afford at that time. So, based on 
this contribution, and Mrs Ws representatives calculation about the proportion of salary 
needed to purchase each added year, she would have been short of purchasing two years 
worth of added years within her affordable monthly contribution and quite some way off 
purchasing five added years. 
AVC schemes offered more flexibility to stop, start, increase and decrease contributions in 
response to life events. I do know that Mrs W subsequently made use of this flexibility. She 
stopped paying into her FSAVC 12 years prior to retirement. Im also told that Mrs W didnt make contributions into either the FSAVC or the AVC after 
she took advice from an independent financial adviser in 2008. Nor did she opt to purchase 
added years then. I accept what her representative has said however, that the monthly cost 
of purchasing added years would not likely have been viable then due to her time to 
retirement. 
I have placed little weight on events post advice. Situations can change over time, and what 
I am considering here is what was known or contemplated at the time of advice. 
Based on what I have seen, I am not persuaded that Mrs W wouldve purchased some 
added years, rather than joining the in-house AVC. I say this given the extra amount Mrs 
W would have had to contribute towards her pension each month to purchase some 
added years, as well as committing to pay this right up to retirement. Further taking into 
account. the prevailing understanding of the opportunity and risks of the AVC scheme 
versus added years, at the time of advice. I think it likely she would have opted for the 
potentially cheaper, more flexible option of the in-house AVC. So, I consider that Avivas 
offer of settlement is a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances and I therefore do 
not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman