DRN-1405993
 
The complaint 
Mrs Bs complaint is about a section 75 Claim she made to Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs B made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Barclays didnt process a section 75 claim but Im not persuaded that one would have been 
successful if they had and I dont think Barclays actions have therefore been unreasonable. 
I say that for the following reasons:
Mrs B didnt provide a copy of the contract so I dont think its been possible to 
conclusively demonstrate theres been a breach of it;
She says the breach is a result of the gym not providing her with the services she 
required but I dont think theres sufficient evidence thats the case as I can see the 
gym explained that there had been some confusion and they assured Mrs B that her 
blood pressure readings were within their guidelines, and she was able to use the 
facilities. I think, in light of the confusion, they were fair to offer Mrs B the missing 
month back and the opportunity to freeze her account until she was happy her blood 
pressure had stabilised.
Mrs B says she has a right under the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation 
and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. These cover off site transactions and 
there are some exceptions. In the absence of a contract its not possible to determine 
whether the exceptions apply.The previous renewal receipt that the investigator referred to in her view suggests 
that a discounted renewal is non refundable and as theres no contract to dispute this 
I dont think Barclays were unreasonable when rejecting Mrs Bs claim.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman