DRN-3909703
The complaint
Mr V complains that NewDay Ltd acted irresponsibly by opening several credit card 
accounts and increasing his credit limit.
What happened
Mr V complains about NewDays decision to open three credit card accounts and 
subsequently increase the credit limits on each. 
When opened between 2018 and 2019, the initial combined limit of the three cards was 
£2,300. However, following increases in 2019 and 2020, this combined limit increased to 
£8,550. 
Mr V says he already had substantial amounts of debt and NewDays lending decisions put 
him into financial difficulty. 
Mr V complained to Newday requesting a refund of all the interest hed paid. However, 
Newday didnt uphold his complaint and explained that their lending affordability checks and 
decisions had been made correctly.
Mr V then complained to our service, however our investigator didnt think Newday had been 
irresponsible in its decisions to lend. 
As Mr V remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr V, I dont think 
NewDay has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings with Mr V or that it has been 
irresponsible in its lending to him, and Ill explain why.
In deciding whether NewDay lent irresponsibly to Mr V, I considered whether, at the times 
the credit cards were provided and the limits on the three cards increased, this lending was 
affordable. 
NewDay opened the three cards, with a combined limit of £2,300, between December 2018 
and March 2019. When looking at the information NewDay considered when Mr V first 
applied for a card, I could see that they performed a number of checks such as looking for 
payday loans and checking with credit reference agencies. These checks revealed no 
indicators that he couldnt afford the first cards maximum £500 limit. This was the same 
when he applied for two extra cards which increased his combined total limit to £2,300. Also, 
Mr Vs salary had increased by £2,000 per annum in this period. 
So, although Mr V had sizeable loans and other credit cards, it looks like NewDay 
considered these loans alongside checks into Mr Vs wider financial situation and made a 
decision to lend on the basis the credit cards would be affordable. I think thats a reasonable 
decision to have made here.
I then looked at the credit limit increases which NewDay subsequently agreed. I could see 
that between 2018 and 2020 Mr Vs debt decreased by a greater proportion than his credit 
card limit increases. 
In addition, the overall debt on his credit cards had fallen to the lowest amount it had been 
since the card was opened and Mr V wasnt utilising the full balance of his credit cards. So, 
considering these factors and NewDays lending criteria, I also dont think NewDay were 
irresponsible when increasing his credit card limits. 
Also, I couldnt see that Mr V informed NewDay that he was experiencing financial difficulty 
or that there was anything else that NewDay could have been reasonably aware of at the 
time that would have caused it to think twice about the affordability of the limit increases 
here.
So, although I understand Mr Vs frustrations here, I havent seen anything which suggests 
NewDay have acted unreasonably or unfairly, and I dont think they need to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman