DRN-4360527
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc kept harassing him with correspondence about 
his debt even after he had told it he had filed for bankruptcy.
What happened
In 2016 Mr H entered into a regulated fixed sum loan agreement with Bank of Ireland. In 
2017 he filed for bankruptcy, and he notified the bank of this in September of that year. His 
other creditors stopped writing to him. Nevertheless, the bank continued to send him notices 
of sums in arrears about his debt, and this caused him great stress. He complained about 
this in 2018 and 2019, but the correspondence continued. His GP diagnosed him as unfit to 
work due to anxiety. Sometimes he would have panic attacks.
In 2022 Mr H complained again. The bank apologised and agreed that it should not have 
sent him the letters. It explained that due to human error it had failed to apply the relevant 
blocks to his account which would have stopped the letters being automatically sent. The 
bank offered to pay him £100. Mr H did not accept that offer, and so a month later the bank 
increased its offer to £500. And in April 2023 the bank offered him a further £250, because it 
had been reporting his loan account as still open, when in fact it had been closed as part 
settled in 2020. The bank corrected the relevant entry on Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H was not satisfied with this outcome, and so be brought this complaint to our service. He 
described how he had tried many times to resolve the matter with the bank, but without 
success, and he had just been passed from pillar to post, forcing him to keep explaining his 
circumstances over and over again to different call handlers. This had adversely affected his 
mental health. He said the impact on him of the banks poor service was worth far more than 
£750. However, our investigator concluded that £750 was fair compensation for what had 
happened.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision. He emphasised the effect on his mental health, 
and pointed out that one of the key advantages of bankruptcy is that creditors are supposed 
to cease contact, and the great relief which results. Instead, the actions of the bank had 
caused him so much stress that he had suffered bouts of unemployment. He is still taking 
medication today. He added that the effect on his credit file had been severe, making it 
impossible to obtain credit except on unfavourable terms. And he and his new wife had 
spent £2,000 on lawyers fees for executing a pre-nuptial agreement, so that she would not 
be affected by any actions that may be taken by debt collectors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that a total of £750 is fair compensation. I will explain why.
I do not doubt that the considerable strain that Mr H has been under over an extended 
period of time, and its toll on his mental health and on his career and income, are certainly 
worth substantially more that £750. However, I also have to take into account two other 
factors: the extent of the banks culpability for those consequences, and also how much of 
the resulting impact was really foreseeable by the bank.
I do not think it is possible for me to safely conclude that all of Mr Hs difficulties are entirely 
the result of the banks correspondence. The bankruptcy itself, as well as the circumstances 
which led up to it, must also have played a substantial part, and most likely the lions share. 
I dont think it would be reasonable for me to try and untangle these things from each other, 
or to decide that the banks contribution amounted to a particular percentage, for example. 
I appreciate Mr Hs argument that everything was supposed to get better after the 
bankruptcy because he was not meant to be dealing directly with his creditors anymore, and 
that should have made things much easier for him, and would have done but for the banks 
error. But I dont think it follows that the bank must be responsible for everything that 
happened after 2017, because all too often, difficult or traumatic circumstances take time to 
recover from, and the emotional impact continues to be felt long after the original cause has 
ceased to exist. The bankruptcy would not necessarily have solved everything at once, even 
if Bank of Ireland had stopped sending the letters at the same time as Mr Hs other creditors 
did. So I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude that the banks actions were 
the sole cause, or even the predominant cause, of the stress Mr H has endured.
Of course, that does not get Bank of Ireland entirely off the hook. The bank knew that Mr H 
was bankrupt (there is a contemporaneous entry to that effect in its customer contact notes), 
and therefore it also knew that he was vulnerable. So it should have stopped the letters, and 
it should have known that the impact of sending those letters might be greater for him than 
for someone else. And I think that the real problem was not actually those letters 
themselves, but Mr Hs repeated and fruitless efforts to have them stopped. I can see that he 
made numerous phone calls to the bank, during which he had to keep on explaining his 
circumstances, and yet these all appear to have fallen on deaf ears. That must have not only 
been infuriating, but also draining. He complained in 2018 and again in 2019, without the 
problem being solved until the third time he complained, in 2022. That is clearly a long time, 
and on any view of the matter that is very poor service. The banks first offer of 
compensation fell well short of what was needed to recognise what its customer had been 
put through.
Nevertheless, I dont think the bank could reasonably have foreseen that these letters and 
phone calls would lead to Mr H being unemployed for extended periods of time. And (as 
I said earlier) I dont think they were the sole or main reason for that happening to him.
Taking all of these matters into account, and after reminding myself of our services 
approach to determining what is fair compensation for distress and inconvenience, I think 
that this case falls at the top end of the £300 to £750 bracket.
Turning to the matter of Mr Hs credit file, I think that the default which was recorded by the 
bank would have had less impact on his credit file than the bankruptcy itself. So I cannot 
conclude that this was the reason why it was difficult for him to obtain credit on favourable 
terms.
Overall, I am satisfied that £750 is fair compensation for the issues raised in this complaint.
My final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay Mr H 
£750 (minus any sums it has paid him already in respect of these matters).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023. But apart from that, this final decision brings 
our involvement in this case to an end.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman