DRN-1072431
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Phoenix Wealth Services Limited didnt repay any of his premiums 
when he cancelled his whole of life plan and didnt inform him when he cancelled that he 
wasnt entitled to anything back.
What happened
Mr R purchased a Guaranteed Over 50 Plan from Phoenix in May 2010. It provided a fixed 
cash sum payable on death after two years of £4,410 and £13,230 if death was within 90 
days of accidental bodily injury caused whilst a passenger or driver in a car or fare paying 
passenger on road, rail, air or sea. The premium was £50 each month which Mr R paid until 
the middle of 2013 when the plan was cancelled.
Mr R contacted Phoenix because he thought he should be refunded the premiums he had 
paid because he hadnt made a claim on the plan whilst it was in force. Mr R argued it was a 
breach of human rights for Phoenix to exercise a policy system of total loss of all payments 
made by a customer when no claim is made.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
didnt think what Phoenix had done was unfair as it operated the same as other insurances, 
such as car insurance, and the terms made clear no repayment was due after the 30 day 
cooling off period.
The investigator thought the policy documents that Mr R had been given made it clear that 
no repayment was due if the plan was cancelled. And he also didnt think Mr R had been 
pressurised into taking out the plan, as it was a non-advised sale.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and made the following points:
The investigator hasnt considered that Phoenix were never actually at risk of paying 
anything as no claim was made so it has cost them nothing.
It sold the plan by hard sales techniques, such as offering gifts.
Had Phoenix provided a separate page in block capitals that explained that if 
payments stopped no repayment of premiums already paid would be made he 
wouldnt have purchased the plan.
His human rights have been breached.
Having been unable to keep up payments due to unforeseen personal circumstances 
and because Phoenix have only had a hypothetical risk of having to pay anything it 
should refund a third of the payments made.
The greed of the insurance company is tantamount to money grabbing.
As Mr R didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I ma not going to uphold 
this complaint for reasons I will explain.
I note the personal circumstances that led to Mr R having to cancel his plan. This would 
undoubtedly have been a difficult time for him. But having considered the documents and 
information provide I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong in not repaying his 
premiums.
The Key Facts document on the first page under Policy Summary states the cover will 
continue for the rest of your life as long as premiums are paid and then states the plan has 
no cash-in value. It also states clearly that if you stop paying premiums for any reason the 
policy will be cancelled and you would not get any money back.
The terms and conditions repeat what is set out in the key facts about the plan having no 
cash-in value at any time and also sate that if a premium isnt paid within 30 days of being 
due the plan will be cancelled and you will get nothing back. It also states that you can 
cancel the plan at any time and that if you do the cover will stop and you wont get anything 
back.
In the circumstances I am satisfied that the documents given to Mr R made it clear that if the 
plan was cancelled he would get nothing back. He has suggested there shouldve been a 
separate page in bold explaining that if the plan was cancelled he would get nothing back. 
But I can see no basis for this. The fact that nothing would be paid back on cancellation 
wasnt a particular feature or risk of his particular plan but is a common feature in most 
insurance, such as household insurance, motor insurance or travel insurance  not just in 
the UK but elsewhere. So I can see no basis for Phoenix having to provide a separate 
document specifically about this.
The fact that no claim is made on insurance does not mean here is an entitlement to 
repayment of the premiums paid for that insurance. The premiums you pay for insurance pay 
the monthly cost of providing the insurance and are pooled with premiums paid by other plan 
holders. 
If Mr R had died in the first month after the start of the policy through a motor accident 
Phoenix wouldve had to pay out £13,250 when he had only paid one premium of £50. That 
money clearly wouldnt have come from the premiums he had paid, but wouldve come from 
the pool of premiums paid by all relevant plan holders.
Given the plan operates in the same way as other insurance plans there is no question of it 
being in breach of any human rights provision as suggested by Mr R.
I note that Mr R raised a new issue on referral to us about high pressure sales techniques 
having been used. This wasnt put to Phoenix originally so it didnt deal with this as part of its 
investigation. But from what I have seen all Phoenix provided was information about the plan 
which Mr R could then choose to have or not  an incentive for taking out the plan is not the 
same things as being pressured into taking it out as Mr R seems to have suggested. I am 
satisfied that he wasnt pressured into taking out the plan.
Mr R has said that he wasnt told that he wouldnt get the premium back when he cancelled. 
Im not persuaded Phoenix were obliged to tell him this given this was clearly explained in 
the documents Mr R already had. But as he says he cancelled because he couldnt afford 
the premium I dont think this wouldve changed what happened anyway.In summary the plan taken out by Mr R worked the same way as most insurance in that 
when he cancelled it he wasnt entitled to repayment of premiums. The documents he was 
provided made this clear and Phoenix has done nothing wrong in refusing to repay anything.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman