DRN-3127888
The complaint
Mr J complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (Accredited) mishandled a
claim on his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Accredited, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Accredited
responsible for their actions. 
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a hatchback car made in about 2013 with a diesel
engine. In March 2019, Mr J took the car on finance. For the following year he had it insured
on a policy under which Accredited was responsible for dealing with claims.
In early October 2019, Mr J reported the theft of the car. Police soon recovered it  but it had
suffered serious accident damage in a collision with a third partys vehicle.
Accredited appointed an investigator to interview Mr J. In December 2019, Accredited turned
down his claim. After further correspondence, Mr J complained to Accredited about that. He
also complained to Accredited about cost of storage of the damaged car and about its sale
for only about £1,000.00. Accredited acknowledged his complaint in mid-October 2020.
By a letter dated mid-December 2020, Accredited told Mr J of his right to bring his complaint
to us  which he did.
By a final response in mid-January 2021, Accredited stood by its decision not to pay Mr Js
claim. It said that its costs of recovering and storing the car had been £484.44. But in
recognition of its poor communication, Accredited said it was only asking Mr J to pay
£282.22. Accredited said the finance company had sold the car for about £1,000.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
Accredited had been fair in repudiating Mr Js claim. She recommended that Accredited
should:
1. reconsider the claim in line with the policy terms; and
2. pay Mr J £200.00 compensation for the delay in validating his claim.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J  
and to Accredited on 30 September 2021. I summarise my findings:
By turning down his claim for reasons Id found unfair  Accredited caused Mr J the
worry of a debt to the finance company that was larger than if Accredited had met the 
claim. Mr J hadnt provided enough detail of this to show a financial loss. 
But I didnt doubt that Accredited caused Mr J extra inconvenience and distress at an 
already difficult time for him.
Subject to any further information from Mr J or from Accredited, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Limited to:
1. meet Mr Js claim for the theft and damage of his car, without relying on the policy 
terms abut theft by deception or taking precautions to avoid loss, but otherwise in line 
with the policy terms; and
2. insofar as it makes a payment in settlement of his claim, add simple interest at a 
yearly rate of 8% from 3 October 2019 to the date of settlement. If Accredited 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. pay Mr J £200.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
4. not ask Mr J to pay £282.22 or any other sum for recovery or storage of the car.
Mr J agrees with the provisional decision.
Accredited hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr Js statement that the car had a recoded mileage of about 90,000 when he
agreed a price of about £9,000.00 for it in March 2019. He has said he paid no deposit and
the finance company paid the whole price.
The policy covered loss and damage caused by theft or attempted theft. I find it fair to treat a
TWOC (taking without owners consent) as though it were a theft.
But the policy excluded the following:
Theft, or attempted theft, that involves somebody using trickery or deception to
acquire Your Car .
The policy also contained the following term:
PART 16 - GENERAL CONDITIONS
KEEPING TO THE TERMS OF THIS POLICY
We will only give Cover under this policy if:
any person claiming under it has met all the conditions in the Contract in so far as
they can apply;
LOOKING AFTER YOUR CAR
You must take all precautions to:prevent injury, loss or damage; and
keep Your Car in a roadworthy condition.
When left unattended, Your Car must be locked and secure and the ignition key
removed. If You do not do this, We may not pay a claim.
Thats a very general condition. And I keep in mind that the policy covered Mr J if he
damaged the car by his own careless driving. So I wouldnt find it fair for the insurer to rely
on this general condition to exclude liability unless Mr J was worse than careless  and was
reckless as to what happened to his car.
Mr J has said that he arranged to meet a woman but found himself in a party with multiple
strangers in a flat. He stayed in that situation after finding out that none of them owned that
flat. Mr J and the woman went back to her flat for the rest of the night.
Someone took his car key and his car. I accept that whoever took the key took it from one of
Mr Js pocket. So I dont consider Mr Js conduct to have been reckless in relation to his
keys and his car. And I dont find it fair and reasonable that Accredited relied on the general
term about taking precautions to avoid loss.
After he noticed his car was missing, the woman accompanied Mr J back to the party flat.
Although initially refused entry, someone let him in and there was a scuffle with some of the
men who had been there the night before.
As the woman had spent the night with him and accompanied him the next morning, I find it 
less likely that she was involved in tricking or deceiving Mr J in order to take his car. I find it
more likely that one of the men had taken the key on the spur of the moment. So I dont find
it fair and reasonable that Accredited relied on the exclusion of theft by deception.
Im satisfied that Mr J reported the theft to police reasonably promptly in the circumstances.
I dont consider it fair for Accredited to say that Mr J refused to identify the woman. I consider
that he gave the information he knew including her first name and a general location of her
flat. I accept his explanation that he deleted the dating app with her contact details. I dont
find it likely that she wouldve given Accredited a helpful statement .
Accredited shouldve dealt with Mr Js claim without relying on the policy terms abut theft by
deception or taking precautions to avoid loss. Ive thought about what wouldve happened if
Accredited had done so. I think that wouldve been as follows:
Accredited wouldnt have charged Mr J for recovery or storage of his vehicle.
But  from its value and mileage  its likely that Accredited wouldve treated the 
car as a total loss.
So Accredited wouldve paid its pre-accident value (less policy excess) to the 
finance company.
Accredited wouldve been entitled to the damaged vehicle or its salvage value.
As Mr J hadnt paid any deposit, the insurance payment probably wouldnt have
covered the balance he owed to the finance company. So he wouldve been left 
with a debt and no car.
But  by turning down his claim for reasons Ive found unfair  Accredited caused Mr J theworry of a debt to the finance company that was larger than if Accredited had met the claim.
Mr J hasnt provided enough detail of this to show a financial loss. But I dont doubt that
Accredited caused Mr J extra inconvenience and distress at an already difficult time for him. 
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Accredited to meet Mr Js 
claim for the theft and damage of his car. That should be without relying on the policy terms 
abut theft by deception or taking precautions to avoid loss. Accredited should discuss with 
the finance company about its recovery of the salvage value.
I will direct that insofar as it makes a payment in settlement of his claim, Accredited
should add interest at our usual rate.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Accredited to pay Mr J £200.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
I will also direct Accredited not to ask Mr J to pay £282.22 or any other sum for recovery or 
storage of the car. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to:
1. meet Mr Js claim for the theft and damage of his car, without relying on the policy 
terms abut theft by deception or taking precautions to avoid loss, but otherwise in line 
with the policy terms; and
2. insofar as it makes a payment in settlement of his claim, add simple interest at a 
yearly rate of 8% from 3 October 2019 to the date of settlement. If Accredited 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. pay Mr J £200.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
4. not ask Mr J to pay £282.22 or any other sum for recovery or storage of the car.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman