DRN-2641999
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P, who are represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain 
that National Westminster Bank Plc rejected their claim under S 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of a timeshare membership.
What happened
In November 2015 and in November 2016 Mr and Mrs P bought separate points-based 
memberships from a timeshare company I will call D. These were paid for using a credit 
card.
I understand they were invited to meetings and they say they were pressurised into making 
the purchases of points which could be exchanged for holidays. They say they were told that 
holidays could be booked at any time, they were exclusive and they would have priority 
access. After the sales presentation the relevant paperwork was completed.
Mr and Mrs P paid £6,301 and £9,701 to purchase the points-based memberships. Later 
they believed the membership was misrepresented and that they were unduly pressurised 
during the sales process.
NatWest reviewed their claim under S 75 and declined it. The bank did not consider there 
were any grounds that amounted to either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. The 
matter was referred to this service where it was considered by one of our adjudicators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She said that she had seen the aids used by D and while these showed an imbalance of 
information with the benefits being stressed she didnt consider this amounted to 
misrepresentation. Nor did she think there had been an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. 
She believed Mr and Mrs P were existing customers of D and were aware of the sales 
process and what was on offer. She had not seen any evidence to show that there had been 
undue pressure and Mr and Mrs P had not sought to cancel with the 14-day window.
The CMC said it wished the matter to be considered by an ombudsman and a detailed 
response would follow, but nothing more has been received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
It seems Mr and Mrs P had some experience of timeshares prior to the transaction which are 
the subject of this complaint and I would have expected them to be aware of what to expect. 
I appreciate they say that they were led to believe they would receive a better offering that 
transpired, but I have seen no evidence that supports that claim.
I can understand that the sales meetings may well have lasted several hours and may have 
been challenging, but Mr and Mrs Ps experience of previous sales events should have left in 
a position to deal with the situation. Our adjudicator has noted that Mr and Mrs P were 
unable to provide any detail about what it was that made the latter sales different to the 
others that they had attended.
I recognise that with many sales the positives are highlighted and negatives are brushed 
over. However, I have to be satisfied that what they were told and the paperwork they were 
given amounted to misrepresentation. My understanding is that the sales aids used by D and 
the statements made by its agents do not tally with what Mr and Mrs P have said they were 
told. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P are dissatisfied with the timeshare they acquired they have not 
provided sufficient evidence to allow me to uphold their complaint. I can only consider the 
handling of their claim by NatWest and not the sale by D. My role is limited to reviewing how 
the NatWest dealt with their claim. That means I am restricted to considering the protections 
set out in the CCA which are narrow and require us to consider how a court would weigh up 
the evidence being presented. I cannot safely conclude that D misrepresented the product 
such that I can uphold their claim
I have every sympathy with Mr and Mrs P, but I do not consider the bank has done anything 
wrong in its handling of their claim..
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman