DRN-3995223
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plcs handling of his request to redeem part 
of his mortgage caused him distress and inconvenience. And he says the money NatWest 
has offered him to resolve his complaint is not sufficient to do so.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a secured business loan with NatWest. In August 2022 the balance 
outstanding on the loan was approximately £74,000. 
In August 2022, they visited their local branch to make a payment of £60,000 from their 
business bank account  also with NatWest  to their loan account, to reduce the amount 
owed. Mr and Mrs S had previously relied on their local branch for this type of transaction. 
And, as Mr and Mrs S didnt communicate in English, they also relied on the staff at the local 
branch who communicated with them in Punjabi. However, they understood from branch 
staff in August 2022 that payments of that nature were no longer facilitated in branch. So, as 
instructed by the branch, they made a call to NatWest and they were told to write a letter to 
the business loan department, and the letter could be sent by internal mail from the branch.
Mr Ss representative  his daughter  wrote to NatWests business banking department as 
instructed on 12 August 2022. But in a subsequent phone call was told the letter had never 
been received. She wrote again, this time to NatWests customer service centre, but still the 
money wasnt transferred. Mr Ss representative made numerous calls to NatWest between 
August 2022 and November 2022. She says she received contradictive and obstructive 
responses during those calls. Much of the difficulty she faced was satisfying NatWests 
customer verification process despite the fact that Mr S was with her when she made most 
of the calls. Mr and Mrs Ss transfer was credited to their loan account on                            
18 November 2022. By that time, theyd made the decision to fully redeem the loan, and 
made a payment of £70,610.42 on 18 November 2022.
Sadly, throughout the time they were trying to make the transfer, Mrs S was extremely Ill and 
has passed away since this complaint was referred to us. Mr Ss representative has told us 
NatWests customer service added to their distress during what was already a very difficult 
time for the family. Id like to add here that I was sad to read of Mrs Ss passing and Im sorry 
for the pain that has undoubtedly caused to her family. Ill continue throughout my decision 
to refer to this being Mr Ss complaint despite the fact that they both initially brought it and 
were both parties to the mortgage. Please be assured, I mean no disrespect by doing so. 
Mr S complained to NatWest about the service he received. NatWest responded in an email 
(undated on our file) acknowledging that the service Mr S had received was not of the 
standard it expected. It confirmed the service Mr S wanted had been withdrawn from their 
local branch. It said its branch staff incorrectly told them to make the transfer online, but     
Mr and Mrs S couldnt do that because of the maximum allowable transfer of £5,000 online. 
The branch also said to use telephone banking, but communication issues meant that was 
unsuccessful. However, NatWests final response letter concluded Mr S had been given 
correct information and offered two potential solutions. They could go back to branch and 
make a CHAPS payment  the £21 fee would be waived  or Mr and Mrs S could change 
the payment limits on their online banking facility via its website. It offered Mr S £150 in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response, Mr S asked us to consider his complaint. Our 
investigator thought NatWests offer wasnt reasonable in the circumstances. He asked 
NatWest to increase its offer for the distress and inconvenience caused, and he said 
NatWest should compensate them for the additional interest they were charged on the loan 
because they were unable to reduce the balance when they wanted to. NatWest agreed and 
calculated that if the transfer payment of £60,000 was made on 31 August 2022,                
Mr and Mrs S would have been charged £812.47 less interest up to the point the loan was 
actually redeemed. NatWest also said it would increase its offer to Mr and Mrs S in respect 
of the distress and inconvenience it caused to £500. So, it offered Mr and Ms S £1,312.47 in 
total compensation. Taking all the circumstances into account, our investigator thought 
NatWests offer was fair so wrote to both parties saying so.
Mr S didnt agree. Their representative told us her parents felt humiliated, vulnerable, 
distraught, depressed, traumatised, devastated and not valued by NatWests service. 
NatWest shouldnt have cut the facilities available in branch simply to save money. And     
Mr S wants NatWest to increase its offer.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator, their complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Ss complaint, Ive thought about whether NatWests offer is fair, given the 
likely distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S. And Ive thought about whether NatWests 
offer is fair in respect of the cost to Mr S of not being able to make the payment to their loan 
account when they wanted to.
The cost to Mr and Mrs S of not making their partial redemption when they wanted to
The first letter Ive seen from Mr Ss representative about them wishing to partially redeem 
their loan was dated 12 August 2022. I understand that letter was written following Mr Ss 
visit to the local branch around the same time. From the wording of his letter, I think he 
wanted to make the payment as soon as possible. And from what hes said, I think Mr S 
wanted to make the payment when he went into the branch.
Its not entirely clear what went on in the branch. And NatWest has said that the facility      
Mr S had used previously was not available to him. But I think the branch would have known 
that he wanted to reduce the balance of the loan significantly and that would have a financial 
impact on Mr and Mrs S. So, I think the branch should have found a way of facilitating that 
payment. Even if that meant helping him do so over the phone or online. I appreciate that the 
branch may have failed in any attempt it made to do so, but I think that would only have 
been because of the failure of another part of NatWest. I think its unlikely the branch 
wouldnt have been able to establish Mr and Ss identity. So, I think Mr S should have been 
able to reduce the balance of the business loan account by £60,000 on 12 August 2022.
NatWest has said it calculated Mr Ss loss  the interest it charged them on £60,000  from 
31 August 2022 to the date they fully repaid the loan. I suspect thats because the interest on 
the loan isnt calculated daily  rather, on the account balance at the end of each month. If 
thats correct, I think thats fair. However, if reworking the loan account assuming the payment was made on 12 August 2022, rather than 31 August 2022, makes a difference to 
Mr Ss loss, NatWest should adjust its offer to compensate them for their loss accordingly. 
So, NatWest needs to check that point.
In addition, Mr S has been deprived of the money he was effectively overcharged each 
month because his account balance was higher than it should have been. So, NatWest 
should compensate him for that loss by paying him 8% simple interest of the amounts he 
was overcharged each month, from the date each monthly payment was made to the date 
the loan was repaid. I understand Mr S had the benefit of the £60,000 for the duration he 
was unable to make the payment for the loan. But I also understand that it sat in their 
business bank account all that time awaiting transfer. So, I think it wasnt used for any other 
purpose, nor was it practically usable, given Mr Ss intentions for it. So, I dont think that 
impacts the redress Ive outlined above.
The distress and inconvenience caused by NatWest to Mr and Mrs S
Mr and Mrs Ss representative told us her parents felt humiliated, vulnerable, distraught, 
depressed, traumatised, devastated and not valued by NatWests service. Given their 
circumstances at the time, I can understand how Mr and Mrs S experienced all those 
feelings, particularly because of Mrs Ss serious health concerns. But I think its important to 
accept that many of those feelings would have been present in their lives at that time without 
any involvement from NatWest. That said, its clear that it must have been incredibly 
challenging for Mr S to deal with NatWest while Mrs S was so ill. And it must have been 
challenging for Mrs S knowing Mr S was experiencing the difficulties he was having with 
NatWest.
Ive listened to recordings of the calls in which Mr Ss representative tried to arrange the 
transfer. I know there were at least eight such calls over a period of four months. And Ive 
heard that at least one of the calls was made from the hospital where her mother was being 
cared for. Ive heard how frustrating she found those calls and its clear that she was put to a 
lot of inconvenience. 
However, were unable to award compensation to a representative for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs Ss family. Our rules say we can only award 
compensation to an eligible complainant. And that is the customer or customers of the 
recipient business on the product that is the subject of the complaint. But that doesnt 
diminish the distress caused to Mr S. Ive heard from the call recordings that Mr S was 
present for many of them, and I know he attended the branch. So, I think he was put to 
significant inconvenience as well as the distress caused to him.
Having thought about all the above, I think the £500 offered by NatWest is reasonable in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused specifically to Mr and Mrs S. But that isnt 
to say I dont acknowledge the level of inconvenience caused to the representative at a time 
that must also have been incredibly challenging for her. I just cant award compensation for 
that.
Summary
Overall, I think the basis of the offer made by NatWest in respect of Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint is fair, though I think it should make some minor amendments to the offer. Our 
investigator has explained that to NatWest and it has agreed. Our investigator has also 
informed Mr S about my proposed amendments to NatWests offer to give him the 
opportunity to comment on that before my decision is finalised. Hes responded indicating 
that he understands the offer and wants it confirmed in my final decision.As NatWest has increased its offer since Mr S asked us to consider this matter, my decision 
is that I uphold his complaint.
Putting things right
If Mr S accepts my decision about his complaint, NatWest should:
Rework Mr Ss business loan account assuming he made a £60,000 payment to it on 
12 August 2022 and refund the difference in interest between the amount that should 
have been charged and the amount Mr S actually paid until the loan was redeemed.
Pay Mr S 8% simple interest* on the amounts he was overcharged each month  
assuming the £60,000 was paid to their loan account on 12 August 2022  from the 
date each monthly payment was made to the date the loan was repaid.
Pay Mr S £500 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If NatWest considers that its required by         
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
NatWest has calculated the redress based on the above formula and has confirmed the 
interest refund equates to £993.62 and the 8% interest equates to £19.60.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Ss complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. It should 
compensate him as Ive explained in the putting things right section of my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman