DRN-3696657
The complaint
Miss E complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly closed her account and provided 
her with poor customer service. 
What happened
Miss E visited a Nationwide branch to make a withdrawal, but she did not bring her card with 
her. She said she was told the withdrawal limit was £500. Miss E says she was asked 
security questions, showed her overseas passport and overseas driving licence. She says 
she also showed the cashier her UK driving licence, but this showed a previous address. 
Miss E says the cashier disappeared with her passport and told Miss E she needed to record 
her passport number, but Miss E told her not to do this, then the cashier told her that she 
couldnt give her any money. 
Miss E says she asked her daughter to ring head office, then she spoke to a call handler 
who said the cashier was going to give her money, but the cashier did not give her money. 
She says in frustration she referred to the cashier as a witch, and she was out of earshot, 
which she says was the extent of the language she used in the branch.
Miss E says she also had issues when she was sent a new card for her account when she 
went to an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) and she couldnt activate the chip and Personal 
Identification Number (PIN) to make contactless payments. So then she used a Nationwide 
ATM, but this retained her card. She thought a previous block had been removed, but as the 
ATM took her card, that this may have been linked to the block.
Miss E says that Nationwide seemed to be of the opinion that she was closing her account, 
because she had said she was withdrawing all of her money. Then she was told about her 
abusive language including using an expletive  which she strongly denies. Nationwide gave 
Miss E 14 days notice that they were closing her account. Miss E made complaints to 
Nationwide. 
Nationwide responded to one of the complaints on 23 July 2019. They said they had listened 
to the call on 21 July 2019 and the information the call handler gave her was correct. They 
said she had tried to make a contactless payment, but this declined because she had not 
made a chip and (PIN) payment in order to activate the contactless facility on the card and 
the call handler suggested she make a chip and PIN transaction at an ATM. They said Miss 
E told them she used an ATM which didnt work, so she tried another ATM, but this retained 
her card. They said the previous restriction on her account was removed on 19 July at 14:52, 
which meant both the account and card were active immediately and wouldnt have affected 
her on 21 July.
Nationwide responded to Miss Es second complaint on 27 December 2019. They said that 
they took the decision to close her account due to things she had said in the branch to their 
staff members and over the phone and the decision to close her account was made by a 
panel at head office. They said the closure was in line with their terms and conditions. Miss 
E brought her complaints to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaints. He said when she tried to withdraw cash 
using her identification, Nationwide needed to take down some of the details, which she was 
uncomfortable with at the time. Because of this the bank refused to provide her with the 
withdrawal shed requested. He said Nationwide followed the terms and conditions in closing 
her account as they can close an account if they feel their staff have been subjected to 
abusive behaviour. And they are free to use their own judgement when considering how their 
staff are treated.
Miss E asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said when she was in the branch, the staff would not even give her £50 to eat 
over the weekend, even though she had passed security questions and had three forms of 
photographic identification and head office told them to give her money, but they didnt and 
the cashier was steadfast they had to take her passport number. She said she had not 
abused anyone in the branch so they shouldnt have closed the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to be clear to Miss E about the complaint points I will be looking into as part of this 
complaint. Miss E has mentioned points which cross over into different complaints she has 
made. So I want to be clear that I will only be looking into the merits of her complaint points 
which are covered by her final response letters which were issued by Nationwide on 23 July 
2019 and 27 December 2019. I wont be able to look into the merits of her final response 
letter on 19 July 2019 which covers off phone calls with two call handlers around this time 
and the restrictions placed on her account such as Nationwide giving her different reasons 
why her card was restricted. 
Miss E received a view from our investigator regarding her final response letter from 
Nationwide dated 23 July 2019 on a separate complaint she brought to our service. As the 
view covers off the restrictions to her account, Im unable to look at her account restrictions 
again as part of this complaint. 
Miss E has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Miss E that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to 
run their security procedures or what language should be deemed as threatening or abusive. 
It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power 
to instruct Nationwide to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our 
service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial 
businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case 
basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about 
whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Ive considered what happened when Miss E went into the branch to withdraw money when 
she didnt have her card. I asked Nationwide if they had the closed-circuit television (CCTV) 
of Miss Es visit to the branch on this date. While this wouldnt provide audio, it would allow 
me to see if the footage would corroborate Miss Es testimony over the Nationwide staffs 
testimonies or vice versa. But Nationwide have told me that the CCTV is not available from 
this date, as it is only retained for a set period of time and this time has elapsed. So while it 
would have been useful for me to view this footage, Im unable to see exactly what 
happened here.When it comes to complaints where its one word against another (such as what was said in 
a branch where there would be no record of this), I have to consider the evidence available 
to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that is, whats 
more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Both parties agree that Miss E passed the initial security questions in the branch. But 
Nationwide say that as there was a restriction on the account, they also needed valid 
identification from her. Miss E had an UK driving licence, but as the address didnt match her 
registered address on the system and was a previous address, then they were unable to 
accept this under their procedures. While Miss E did have her passport present, Nationwide 
have confirmed that the cashier needed to record the passport number on their system in 
order for them to process Miss Es withdrawal. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Miss E has regarding not wanting them to record any 
details of her passport and the reasons why she feels this way. And she was certainly within 
her rights to ask them not to do this. But the cashier would not have been able to give her 
the money without doing this as she needed to enter the details onto the system in order for 
her to process the withdrawal. So I cant say the cashier did anything wrong here by not 
giving Miss E any money when she did not want them to record her passport number.
Ive considered what Miss E has said about a person on the phone saying she could 
withdraw money. After the call had ended, it appears this is when she was asked for the 
passport to record the number. And the cashier spoke to another department who told her 
that they couldnt give her the money without recording the passport number. So while a call 
handler said she could have the money, Im not persuaded they were aware Miss E would 
decline to allow the cashier to record the passport number. So while I understand the 
feelings Miss E had about this day, I cant say the cashier made an error by following 
Nationwides procedures. 
While I cant comment about the restrictions on her account for the reasons Ive already 
given, I can look into what happened on 21 July 2019, as this is documented in the 23 July 
2019 final response letter from Nationwide. Miss E tells the call handler she had tried to 
make a contactless payment, but this was declined due to the restriction on her account. The 
call handler tells her he cant see any restriction on the card and as she hadnt used chip and 
PIN officially since she received her new card and since the restriction had been removed, 
the chip and PIN needed to be activated at the ATM so she could use the contactless 
feature moving forward. 
It appears that when Miss E visited a non-Nationwide ATM, the ATM would not let her 
perform the function to activate the contactless feature so she went to a Nationwide ATM, 
but it retained her card. Nationwide have said the cause of this could have been a signal 
fault on the ATM. Im satisfied that the card being retained was not to do with any restrictions 
on the account as Nationwide confirmed the restriction was removed on 19 July at 14:52. 
This was confirmed by the second call handler she spoke to on 21 July 2019 and she was 
told if the ATM kept the card due to a restriction it would have given her an error code, but as 
it didnt, it suggested a signal failure on the ATM.
Ive considered what happened regarding Nationwide giving Miss E notice that they were 
going to close her account. In their final response letter in December 2019, Nationwide said 
they took the decision to close the account due to the things Miss E said in branch and over 
the phone. I know Miss E and Nationwide have differing opinions of the language which has 
been used by her and I wont detail the term in this decision, as the term is known by both 
parties. Miss E has also said that she has referred to a staff member as a witch. But on a call on 10 
July 2019, she referred to the staff member by a different word, which she admitted to using. 
When the call handler tells her about swearing, Miss E says that the word is not a swear 
word and is in the dictionary. So Nationwide may have viewed this word as being abusive 
towards their staff, whether it was said directly to the staff member or not.
Ive looked at Nationwides terms and conditions to see what they say about when they can 
close an account. Section 78 of the terms and conditions show that either party can end the 
agreement. If Nationwide end the agreement then they would give Miss E no less than two 
months notice. But section 82 states the following:
82. We may close your account immediately and without notice in exceptional 
circumstances. These might include:
d) you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff; 
So here, Nationwide deemed Miss Es behaviour to be either (or both) threatening and 
abusive. But rather than immediately close the account, they did give Miss E 14 days notice 
of the closure.  Im satisfied this was fair as it gave Miss E a chance to make alternative 
arrangements. The account closure notice was not issued straight after this incident as the 
decision to close the account was made by a head office panel who decided that the account 
should be closed and that is why the closure notice was weeks after the events in branch. 
Nationwide are entitled to use their own judgement when considering how their staff are 
treated. So it follows, I dont require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman