DRN-2628791
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society, (Nationwide), mis-sold
them a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy in 1993.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Nationwide. At the same time they took out MPPI, 
which only covered Mr H.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.
As Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Because the sale was so long ago, Nationwide has been unable to send us copies of the 
paperwork signed by Mr and Mrs H. This is not unusual, and Nationwide is not required to 
keep papers for such a long time. And, where the information is unavailable or unclear, as is 
in part the case here, I have to reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider surrounding circumstances. Ive also taken into account what we know generally about 
Nationwides sales processes.
Mr and Mrs H say that the policy was part of the mortgage and that taking it was a condition 
of getting the mortgage. And I agree with this. We know that, when the amount of the loan 
compared with the value of the property was particularly high, at certain times Nationwide 
did indeed offer mortgages where taking MPPI was a condition,. It also made this a condition 
in some circumstances where a particular preferential interest rate was offered, as was the 
case here. There is nothing precluding a lender from doing this. However it is a requirement 
that the business make it clear that the policy isnt optional. From what Mr and Mrs H have 
told us, they were clear and this seems to be the main point of their complaint. If Mr and 
Mrs H didnt want to take out the MPPI they could have chosen a mortgage product with a 
different interest rate with Nationwide, or approached a different lender. 
Nationwide didnt need to advise Mr and Mrs H about the insurance, as such, because it was 
a necessary condition of the particular mortgage product they had chosen to take. So it 
didnt have to make sure that it was suitable for them. But it was required to give them clear, 
fair and not-misleading information about it so they could make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take the mortgage that required the MPPI.
I am satisfied that, on balance, Mr and Mrs H would have known what they would have had 
to pay monthly for of the mortgage, including the premium for the MPPI. But I dont know 
what other information Nationwide actually gave Mr and Mrs H. Its possible that it didnt give 
them all the details that it ought to have. But, knowing what I do about Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy, I dont think that better 
information about the compulsory insurance would have changed their minds and dissuaded 
them from taking the mortgage. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the policy;
Mr H wasnt caught by any of the MPPIs main limitations and restrictions  such as 
those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition
Mr and Mrs H have told us that, apart from Mr Hs sick pay, they had no savings or other 
insurance to help make their monthly mortgage payments had Mr H not been working 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr Hs sick pay would have been paid 
for up to a maximum of between six and twelve months. Whereas, following a successful 
claim, the policy would have paid out for up to 24 months. And these payments would 
have been in addition to any entitlement from his employment, leaving that available to 
help meet other commitments. So, I think that Mr and Mrs H would have thought the 
policy could have been of use. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs H not been able to make their 
monthly mortgage payments; 
So I dont find theres any basis on which to conclude the MPPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman