DRN-1667011
 
The complaint
Mr E is the director of T and is bringing a complaint in relation to Ts application for a 
business banking current account.
Mr E complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc declined the application for a business bank 
account and doesnt believe they have given an adequate explanation for why the 
application was declined  particularly as Mr E says he continues to hold a personal current 
account with HSBC.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr E applied for a business bank account online. The application was 
considered by HSBC and following their review they turned it down.  
HSBC let Mr E know each application they review involves a certain amount of risk for 
HSBC, and that each bank uses their own policies and credit scoring systems to assess that 
risk. HSBC explained that while they had chosen to decline Ts application, another financial 
institution may think differently. And they explained they were unable to provide Mr E with an 
exact reason for reaching their decision as a matter of policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said HSBCs decision to decline the 
application was a matter of HSBCs commercial judgement. And they explained that different 
accounts have different criteria which can also change over time. The investigator said there 
was no evidence HSBC had treated the application unfairly. 
Mr E disagreed. He didnt think HSBC had provided a good enough reason why the 
application was declined as they hadnt been specific about what the risk was. Mr E noted 
information held by credit reference agencies is available to the public and so not 
commercially sensitive. He also said his credit history was not bad and suggested that the 
greater risk would be for T entering into a banking relationship with HSBC rather than the 
other way around. Mr E recognised that HSBC had the right to choose who they had as a 
customer, but he didnt think they could act unreasonably by preventing people/ companies 
from doing legitimate business. 
Our investigator further explained that credit checks are standard throughout the industry 
and the potential for accounts to go into overdrafts mean that a bank could inadvertently end 
up providing the account holder with credit. 
Mr E continued to disagree. He said it was up to the bank to allow the account to go into an 
overdraft or not. And any slip into an overdraft would be minimal, so the risk would be small. 
Mr E concluded assessing the risk was therefore not the reason banks carry out credit 
checks and said that simply because something is standard practice, that doesnt make it 
right.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that HSBC have acted fairly in the 
circumstances and dont need to do anything more. 
All banks are required to comply with certain rules and regulations  anything they do over 
and above is really a matter of commercial decision making. This includes the decisions 
banks make and the criteria they set when considering applications for new accounts. While 
a bank cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer, they can say who they wish to do 
business with. Thats because they have the commercial freedom to decide who they want 
to contract with. 
But whilst this service cannot comment on commercial decisions or individual processes, we 
can make sure that those processes which are in place are followed fairly. 
In this case I think HSBC fairly applied their own policies and scoring systems when 
considering Ts application. I appreciate Mr E feels strongly that HSBC have not provided 
sufficient reasoning as to why they declined the application. But I dont think HSBC needs to 
say any more. The criteria used to assess the application is commercially sensitive and 
generally, and understandably, it is unavailable publicly. So, I understand why HSBC said it 
was unable to say more as a matter of policy. 
Im therefore satisfied HSBC exercised their commercial judgement legitimately when they 
decided not to offer T a business bank account. 
If Mr E has broader concerns about how the industry assesses account applications, then he 
is free to raise those concerns separately with the financial regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Ts complaint about HSBC Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman