DRN-1558837
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999, 2000 and 2003. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy, which just covered Mr G.  
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint for the following reasons. 
Mr and Mrs G completed an application form specifically for PPI each time they took it.  So, I 
think Lloyds made them aware they had a choice about buying the MPPI, and that they 
chose to take it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, and it seems to have been right for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Without it they wouldve 
struggled to keep up with their mortgage repayments if Mr G could not work. They had no 
income of savings beyond Mr Gs sick pay, which wouldve lasted less than six months. 
Its possible that Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if 
it had, I think Mr and Mrs G would still have bought it. Although they say the additional cost 
of the PPI became a struggle, Ive found nothing to suggest this was foreseeable at the point 
of sale. 
Its possible Lloyds didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover. But Mr and Mrs G 
dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share dont apply 
to Mr and Mrs Gs PPI, due to the date the mortgage ended. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Gs comments, including what theyve said about paying 
interest on the PPI premiums. But these points dont change my conclusion. The PPI 
premiums weren't paid for by a loan, so they didn't incur interest on them. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman