DRN-2236442
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis sold an annuity by Standard Life Assurance Limited 
(Standard Life). He says he wasnt told about the terms of the annuity at the time and 
doesnt understand why he cant take a lump sum from it now. He also says he wasnt told 
that Standard Life would keep any residual capital from the annuity in the event of his death.
What happened
Mr B held a personal pension with Standard Life with a selected retirement date (SRD) of 
21 March 2015. In November 2014, having received a yearly statement which showed the 
value of the plan as £36,938.95, Mr B contacted Standard Life to enquire about his options 
for drawing the benefits. He then discussed the alternatives during a telephone appointment. 
Standard Life didnt offer an advice service, so it simply provided Mr B with all the 
information he might need. As a result, Mr B decided to take his available tax free cash of 
£9,234.73 and a yearly annuity of £717.
In November 2019 Mr B contacted Standard Life as he wanted to cash in his annuity. But 
Standard Life said he couldnt because when he bought his annuity it didnt have an option 
to be encashed. It confirmed he was now unable to change the basis of his annuity and 
explained that the value of plan in 2014 had been above the amount that it was now possible 
to take as a lump sum (£10,000) under new HMRC rules. 
 
But in February 2020 Mr B contacted Standard Life again and said he was in financial 
difficulty and asked to cash in his annuity.
Having reviewed the situation further Standard Life explained that, because the annuity had 
been in payment for a relatively short time, its replacement cost would still be higher than the 
new £10,000 limit for being able to draw a pension as a lump sum. It confirmed the valuable 
guarantee period and escalation of payment that Mr Bs annuity contained. It also said that if 
Mr B had wanted to maintain flexibility of his pension he could have delayed taking the 
benefits until after a new pension bill was introduced by the government  which it had told 
Mr B about during the telephone call in 2014. It also confirmed that it had paid the 2020 
annuity payment earlier than it was due to be paid  in order to help with Mr Bs financial 
difficulties. 
But Mr B wasnt happy with that outcome as his financial situation was worsening  so he 
brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. He said 
Standard Life hadnt done anything wrong. He said Mr Bs annuity had been sold on a non-
advised basis, so Standard Life simply provided the information Mr B needed to make his 
own decision about what to do with his pension fund. He thought Standard Life provided 
Mr B with details of the alternatives that were available and applied the option Mr B decided 
upon. As a part of that process he thought Standard Life made it clear that once the annuity 
was set up it couldnt be changed in any way. 
He said, from what hed listened to, he was satisfied that Standard Life had made Mr B 
aware of the features of his annuity and that Mr B was aware it was going to provide an 
income for life.
Mr B didnt agree and said he thought Standard Life ought to have made it clear that he 
couldnt access the funds from his annuity. He said he didnt receive any post sale 
correspondence to explain the annuity didnt have a cash-out value. He said he wanted his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman - so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about the financial difficulties Mr B is now suffering, which has made it 
even more important for him to get an outcome to his complaint. But I agree with the 
investigator that Standard Life hasnt done anything wrong here, which I know will disappoint 
Mr B as it isnt the decision he was hoping for  so Ill explain my reasons.  
This was a non-advised sale by Standard Life, so Ive first looked at what it was obliged to 
do and what it told Mr B about the options he had regarding his existing pension in order to 
make provision for his retirement.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) code of conduct on retirement choices from 2012 
set out the guidelines of what Standard Life was expected to do in Mr Bs case. It was 
required to ensure its communication enabled Mr B to understand:
His retirement choices
The different product types available, and their appropriateness for his 
circumstances, including enhanced annuities.
The benefits of shopping around for the most appropriate and competitive retirement 
income product.
This information was to be provided through a series of template wake up and follow up 
packs which needed to include reference to independent services such as the Money Advice 
Service (MAS) and the Pensions Advisory Service. Ive seen a copy of the MAS booklet that 
would have been included within the wake-up packs which also included details of the new 
rules which came into effect in 2014 and 2015 and which Ill cover later. But I think the 
brochure covered the information that was required for Mr B and I note they gave some 
information about the two main complaint points Mr B raised. 
On page 13 the booklet stated, if you are aged 60 or over and your total pension savings 
amount to £30,000 or less, you can now take the entire amount as a lump sum. And there 
were a number of references to annuities which included, you cannot change your mind 
once youve bought it and lifetime annuities provide a guaranteed income for life in return 
for a lump sum. So I think the booklet, as was required by ABI code of conduct, did make 
Mr B aware of the long-term nature of annuities and the amount of pension fund that was 
required in order for Mr B to be able to draw the benefits as a lump sum only.
But Ive also looked at the other documents that Mr B would have been provided with  prior 
to taking out his annuity  which would have given the same information about annuities. 
The key features document stated, under the section headed risks, that once youve 
bought your compulsory purchase annuity from us, you cant transfer the value to another 
company or cash it inyour pension will be based on the options you choose. 
You cant change your options at a later date.Your pension will stop when you die, 
unless youve chosen for it to continue. I think these statements made it clear that the 
annuity wouldnt be able to be encashed at later date.The question and answers section also confirmed that a lifetime annuity is an annuity plan 
from an annuity provider chosen by you and will provide you with a pension for the rest of 
your life..once youve started to take your pension, you cant cash in your compulsory 
annuity, change it to another provider or temporarily stop receiving payments. Cancellation 
rights within 30 days were also explained. 
So I think Standard Life did follow the code of conduct in respect of providing Mr B with the 
required information about drawing his pension benefits, and I think it made the risks and 
rules around annuities clear, through the literature. 
In addition, the code of conduct also said that, during the sales process, a personalised 
illustration must be provided before the sale of annuity is completed and may be provided by 
telephone or in writing. In order to do that the provider must find out the following 
information:
Whether they are taking any small pots as cash and/or taking tax free cash.
Whether they are married/partnered or have a dependent who might outlive them.
Whether they are concerned about their income losing value because of inflation.
Whether they have any lifestyle or medical conditions that mean they are eligible for 
an enhanced annuity.
Whether they have any other pots and would benefit from combining them.
Ive listened to the telephone conversation Mr B had with Standard Life in November 2014 
and Im satisfied that these questions were covered and discussed. I also listened to see if 
Standard Life conveyed the correct and required information through that means of 
communication as well. The adviser began the call by asking if Mr B was looking at the 
options for drawing at least some of his money. He then explained that Standard Lifes 
service was information and assistance only, its strictly non advice and he asked if Mr B 
wanted to use a financial adviser. He removed the one named on Mr Bs file when the 
request was declined. 
The adviser explained that Mr B was fully responsible for the suitability of the product and 
confirmed the three options available. These were: 
To wait for the proposed and highly likely changes next year.
To take out an annuity.
To take out a drawdown plan. 
So I think Standard Life built on the information it had provided prior to the telephone call 
and reiterated the options available to Mr B  who said he wanted the fixed (annuity) option.  
The adviser then confirmed that, Once its set up in stone you cant change it. The adviser 
said that an application form wasnt required, and that Mr Bs choice would be confirmed by 
sending him an illustration and a key features document in due course.
Ive then gone on to look at the post sale documentation that was sent to Mr B, particularly 
the confirmation letter Standard Life sent to Mr B after 25 November 2014. It confirmed 
details of the annuity to be paid and the basis on which the figures were calculated. The 
warning at the bottom of the page said, this plan has no cash in value at any time. 
So looking at all the documents that were provided to Mr B and the telephone conversation 
he had with the adviser, Im satisfied that there were enough references to the fact that he 
wouldnt be able to further access his annuity once it had started.
I said earlier that I would cover the circumstances that arose in this case where the 
government had announced forthcoming changes to the way consumers might be able to draw their pension benefits  including having more flexibility. The changes were announced 
in 2014 to take effect the following year so the regulator issued guidance entitled pension 
reforms: guidance for firms in the interim period. In summary the guidance said that 
Standard Life was obliged to take the next available opportunity within the customer journey 
(through the wake-up pack, reminder letter, inbound call scripts) to provide customers with 
clear information about the changes to allow them to make an informed decision.
Ive already said that the MAS booklet included within the wake-up pack covered details of 
the proposed changes. But Ive also seen a copy of HM Treasurys budget 2014: greater 
choice in pensions explained document that was provided to Mr B, which confirmed the 
forthcoming changes  and how they would affect Mr B, in some detail. In addition, during 
the call of 21 November 2014, the adviser did confirm that one of Mr Bs options was to wait 
for the forthcoming changes, which he conceded would include more flexibility and would be 
beneficial for Mr B if he perhaps didnt have a requirement to draw funds at that point.   
So, Im satisfied that Standard Life did make Mr B aware of the situation around his annuity, 
and, in particular, that it would provide an income for life and couldnt be accessed after it 
had been set up. And that, after a 10-year guarantee period, nothing would be paid to his 
wife in the event of his death.  I think he was also made aware that he could wait until 
April 2015, if he was prepared to do that, for a more flexible approach to drawing benefits.  
Although Ive decided that Standard Life did make Mr B aware that he wouldnt be able to 
change the basis of his annuity and draw a lump sum from it at a later date, I have also 
considered whether Standard Life is able to make any concessions to Mr B now that his 
situation has clearly changed.
The terms and conditions of the annuity dont allow for it to be cashed in or adjusted once its 
been set up. Thats because the annuity rate that was used to set the yearly income was 
based on Mr Bs circumstances on the day he applied for the annuity  so it wouldnt be fair 
to recalculate it now in hindsight. Theres no obligation for Standard Life to change the basis 
of Mr Bs annuity now that it been set up and I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr B 
would have qualified to be able to take his original benefits as a lump sum. So the only other 
possibility here is whether Standard Life was prepared to make a gesture to Mr B to 
recognise his current financial position. But Standard Life has confirmed that it doesnt 
believe it would be in Mr Bs best interests to exchange his annuity for a lump sum, given the 
circumstances, even if it was able to do so. 
However, I note that Standard Life, as a gesture of good will, agreed to pay Mr Bs 2020 
annuity payment some five months early to help ease his financial situation. I think thats a 
fair and reasonable gesture from Standard Life, and I wont be asking it to do anything more 
or to recreate the annuity so that capital can be accessed. 
And Ive also seen that since referring his complaint to us Mr B has approached Standard 
Life for further help in his current financial situation. This hasnt been included as part of 
Mr Bs overall complaint to us, but I understand that Standard Life has agreed to pay Mr B 
the next three years annuity payments in order to help alleviate his position. Mr B has 
understood the terms of this payment and has accepted it. 
So I wont be making any further comment on the matter except to say that I think Standard 
Lifes gesture is fair and sympathetic to the particular problem Mr B finds himself in as a 
result of the pandemic. But Im not going to ask Standard Life to do anything further as I 
dont think its done anything wrong here.
my final decisionFor the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman