DRN-4389380
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with a car she acquired using finance provided by Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
What happened
In November 2022 Miss C acquired a used car. The car cost £7,988, had a recorded 
mileage on the agreement of 72,000 miles and was just over ten years old. Miss C took a 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance the car.
 
Miss C said she immediately spotted issues with damage to a mud flap and the parcel shelf. 
She said shortly after this, the car had issues with windows not working and the handbrake 
light staying on. She said she was expecting the dealer to fix these, but it became apparent 
this wasnt going to be the case and so she complained to Moneybarn. While awaiting a 
response, she said a coil spring snapped on the car.
Moneybarn got in touch with Miss C and said it hadnt been able to investigate her complaint 
within the usual timeframe. It explained she could refer the complaint to our service, which 
Miss C did. 
Later, while our service was investigating, Moneybarn issued its final response in July 2023. 
This said, in summary, that in relation to the parcel shelf and mud flap it considered these 
cosmetic issues and so wouldnt take any further action. It said the car had passed an MOT 
before she acquired it so it didnt think the electrical issues were present at the point of 
supply. 
Moneybarn said it had asked Miss C for three comparative quotes from VAT registered 
garages for the outstanding issues, so it could consider these as a gesture of goodwill. But it 
said it didnt receive these. So, it said Miss C should send over receipts for repairs already 
completed for management review. Moneybarn said it was not upholding the complaint, but 
it did pay Miss C £150 to apologise for the delays.
Our investigator issued an opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, 
that the issues with the mud flap and parcel shelf didnt mean the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality. And he said the other issues appeared to have been caused by wear and tear when 
Miss C had the car.
Miss C responded. In summary, she said Moneybarn have admitted the car had a fault. And 
she said all the windows were now intermittently not working. 
Our investigator responded and said this didnt change his opinion. So, the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining to both parties that I might not comment on every individual 
point raised or every piece of evidence. While I have carefully considered all of the 
information on the case, I am going to focus on what I think are the key points and the crux 
of the complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service.
Miss C complains about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
regulated consumer credit agreements such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Miss C complaint against Moneybarn.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Moneybarn here  has a 
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider that Miss C car was over ten years old and had 
covered around 72,000 miles. It also cost under £8,000, which was a significant amount less 
than what the car wouldve cost new. 
So, I think a reasonable person would not expect the car to be in the same condition as a 
newer, less road worn one. I think they would expect the car to be safe and road legal, but 
may expect some minor issues and for parts to have suffered wear and tear.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car was of satisfactory quality or not.
Ive firstly considered the issues with the mud flap and the parcel shelf. Ive seen a photo of 
the mud flap, which does appear damaged. And I accept what Miss C said about the parcel 
shelf  as Ive seen a screenshot of a text to the dealer shortly after Miss C got the car which 
says:
Car is running great but have an issue with the parcel shelf (its really stiff and doesnt retract 
fully)
Thinking about this, I accept these problems were likely there when Miss C got the car. But, 
Im satisfied these are minor issues. And considering the age, price and mileage of the car, I 
dont think a reasonable person would conclude these made this particular car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Ive then gone on to consider the issue with the handbrake light and the electric window. The 
first evidence of this is from another text message, sent around three months after Miss C 
got the car. This says the car had an intermittent fault with these issues which is getting 
worse. Ive then seen a report from March 2023 that describes the issues and notes the 
mileage of the car as 74,116 miles:
Handbrake warning light on suspect internal switch issue Refer mbr back to dealer for 
further investigation Also found nearside front door window motor not working. Requires 
further investigation into cause of failure
The first thing to point out here is that Im satisfied both of these issues are likely electrical. 
Its particularly important to note in the case of the handbrake that the issue only appears to 
be with the light on the dashboard rather than the brake functioning itself  so this issue is 
much more minor than it might initially appear. Its difficult to know from this information precisely when these electrical issues first started. 
But, I think its unlikely they were present when Miss C got the car. I say this because, as 
above, Miss C told the dealer the car was initially  running great. I also dont think the faults 
were likely developing when Miss C got the car, as electrical issues can appear suddenly.
That being said, I also need to decide if the car was durable, which the CRA explains should 
be considered as part of satisfactory quality. But, I dont think, considering the cars price, 
mileage and in particular its age, that a reasonable person would consider that electrical 
issues appearing at the stage they did mean the car wasnt durable.
Finally, Ive then considered the coil spring that snapped. Ive seen a breakdown report 
which isnt dated, but the mileage is recorded as 74,591 miles, so it appears this was after 
the report above from March 2023.
Considering this, it appears Miss C had the car for at least four months at this point. And 
shed covered over 2,000 miles in it. Suspension is a serviceable part of the car that will 
suffer from wear and tear. I think its most likely the fault developed due to wear and tear 
while Miss C had the car, rather than being present when Miss C acquired it. And, thinking 
again about the age, price and mileage, Im satisfied a reasonable person would not 
consider that this meant the car wasnt durable.
So, in summary, I dont think the car was of unsatisfactory quality when Miss C acquired it.
Its worth noting that Moneybarn did offer to consider the cost of any repairs Miss C had 
completed, if she sent it details of these, as a gesture of goodwill. While I do not make any 
direction to Moneybarn, Miss C is still free to provide these costs to it and to discuss this 
directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman