DRN-3498331
The complaint
Miss H complains that she was unable to access her online account for a finance agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF)
What happened
In June 2020 Miss H purchased a carpet from a retailer and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with CCF.
When Miss H tried to log on to her online account, she found that her password wouldnt 
work. She contacted CCF several times, but the issue wasnt resolved.
Miss H raised a complaint with CCF. CCF acknowledged that there was an issue with the 
Online Account Manager (OAM) but said there was currently no fix for the issue. CCF 
advised Miss H to contact the Customer Service Department for any queries relating to her 
account.
Miss H brought her complaint to this service. Shes since paid off the account in full but feels 
that she should be compensated for the time shes spent contacting CCF to try and resolve 
the issue.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Miss Hs ability to make monthly 
repayments hadnt been affected by not being able to access her online account. She also 
said that Miss H had the option to contact the Customer Service Department if she had any 
queries relating to her account. The investigator acknowledged that Miss H had been caused 
some inconvenience but said that the compensation already paid by CCF was fair and 
reasonable.
Miss H didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Miss Hs finance agreement. This shows that a direct debit was set up for Miss 
Hs monthly repayments and that she made repayments without missing any for the duration 
of the agreement.
CCF dont dispute that Miss H was unable to access her online account. It explained to Miss 
H that there was a known issue for which no fix was currently available and provided her 
with an alternative option for contacting them if she had any queries regarding her account.
Miss H has said she didnt have access to her online account for around two years. Shes 
said that she called CCF several times and was promised calls back but instead they wrote 
to her and said they couldnt help. 
Ive thought about how not being able to access her online account has impacted Miss H. I 
appreciate that not being able to access her account has caused Miss H frustration and 
inconvenience. I also appreciate that Miss H spent time contacting CCF about the issue. 
However, based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Miss Hs ability to make her 
monthly repayments was impacted. 
Miss H has told this service that if shed had access to her online account she wouldve paid 
off the loan sooner. However, I think Miss H could have contacted the Customer Service 
Department if shed wanted to make additional payments or settle the account early. 
Ive already said that I appreciate that Miss H has spent a lot of time trying to resolve this 
issue. So, Ive thought about whether CCF has done enough to compensate Miss H for the 
inconvenience. CCF has already paid compensation totalling £200 to Miss H since she first 
raised her complaint. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think the compensation already paid to Miss H in 
respect of her lack of online access is fair and reasonable, and in line with what this service 
would award. Because of this, I wont be asking CCF to pay further compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman