DRN-3792439
The complaint
Mr Js complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined the claim 
he submitted when his shed burned down and voided his policy on the basis they werent 
satisfied all of the items he claimed for had been stored in the shed.
What happened
Mr J started a barbecue in his garden. He said he encouraged the barbecue to catch light, 
which led to it giving off sparks/embers. A couple of hours later, he saw his garden shed was 
on fire. Mr J called the fire brigade, who put the fire out. On the next working day, Mr J 
contacted RSA to make a claim for what had been lost or damaged by the fire.
RSA gathered initial information and arranged for Mr J to be interviewed about how the claim 
had arisen. Following the interview, Mr J was asked to provide a schedule of items which 
had been lost. The schedule he produced included three bicycles, one of which was included 
on the policy as a high value item.
Following further enquiries by their investigators, RSA wrote to Mr J advising him theyd 
voided his insurance policy, on the basis hed deliberately misrepresented his claim. They 
based this on information which led them to conclude the bicycles werent stored in the shed 
at the time of the fire.
Mr J disputed this and complained to RSA about their decision. When RSA didnt respond to 
his complaint, Mr J brought it to our service. He denied any of his claim was fraudulent and 
told us RSAs decision meant that he was having difficulty getting alternative cover.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded RSA needed to do more to resolve 
it. They said that, to rely on the fraud term set out in Mr Js policy, RSA needed to show it 
was more likely than not that hed tried to obtain a settlement he wasnt entitled to  and they 
didnt think that was the case here. So the investigator recommended RSA reinstate Mr Js 
policy and consider his claim subject to the other terms and conditions, remove references to 
their conclusion Mr J had acted fraudulently, and pay him £300 to compensate him for the 
trouble and upset theyd caused him.
I disagreed with our investigator.  So I made a provisional decision.  I explained its not my 
role to decide whether or not Mr Js claim was fraudulent, but to decide whether RSAs 
decision was fair and reasonable on the basis of the evidence theyd gathered.
I noted that RSA had interviewed Mr J, and made enquiries of the fire service about whether 
the officers noted any bicycles in the shed.  The officer in charge (OIC) told RSA there were 
no obvious signs of any bicycles.  And he provided photos taken after the fire had 
been put out.
I studied those photos, and those provided by Mr J.  It was difficult to make items out 
although I could clearly see the metal frame of a lawnmower which was included in the 
claim.  And, while I noted Mr J identified items he said were a sprocket and rubber innertube, 
I found the fire officers testimony more persuasive.  
So I thought it was reasonable for RSA to have relied on this testimony to conclude there 
werent any bicycles in the shed  which I noted theyd done after interviewing Mr J and 
giving him an opportunity to comment on the fire officers testimony and provide any 
additional evidence he had to counter it.  And that meant I provisionally decided not to 
uphold Mr Js complaint.
RSA accepted my provisional decision.  Mr J provided further evidence which he believes 
contests the statement obtained by RSA from the OIC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.  I know hell be very disappointed by 
my decision.  Ill explain why Ive made it.
As I explained in my provisional decision (which Ive summarised above), its not for me to 
decide whether Mr Js claim was fraudulent.  Ive not done so.  But I have thought about 
whether RSAs decision that hed misrepresented his claim met the test our investigator 
referred to  that is, it was more likely than not that Mr J had tried to obtain a settlement he 
wasnt entitled to.
I also explained in my provisional decision that I found the fire officers testimony  that there 
were no obvious signs of bicycles in the shed  more persuasive than Mr Js photos, which 
he said showed bicycle parts.  I came to this conclusion after reviewing the photos provided 
by both parties.  
As I said, it was difficult to make out many items clearly.  I could clearly see the metal 
handles of the lawnmower which was in the shed.   But I couldnt see anything I could clearly 
identify as parts of a bicycle.  And I dont find it likely that Id be able to see small parts, such 
as the sprocket Mr J identified, but nothing else  for example, part of a metal bicycle frame.
Since receiving my decision, Mr Js made considerable efforts to gather further information 
which Ive now considered along with his additional comments.
Firstly, Mr J referred me to a photograph showing the bicycles in the shed.  I accept he sent 
that.  And I dont doubt the bicycles had been stored in the shed at some point.  But the 
photos file information shows it was taken about ten months before the fire.  I find it less 
persuasive of the situation on the day of the fire than the OICs photograph, which was taken 
shortly after the fire was extinguished and in which I cant see anything I recognise as part of 
a bicycle.
Similarly, I find the OICs photo more persuasive than the statement Mr J obtained from his 
neighbour.  Whilst I dont doubt the content, the statement sets out a recollection of seeing 
the bicycles in the shed.  But no indication is given of when this was.  And the witness recalls 
Mr Js partner being upset because the fire destroyed a lot of their family holiday stuff.  
Theres no reference to the bicycles.
Finally, Mr J has obtained further information from a group commander in the fire service 
who has confirmed the OICs statement that there were no obvious signs of a bicycle didnt 
rule out the possibility that there was one or more there that werent clearly identifiable.
Ive thought carefully about this.  But I didnt say the OICs statement and photo were 
conclusive proof.  Rather, I found them more persuasive than what Mr J provided to support his position the bicycles were in the shed.  And  as Ive said  its not for me to say whether 
RSAs decision was right, but whether it was a reasonable conclusion for them to draw, 
based on the evidence they considered.  I this it was.  And so I dont think they need to do 
any more to resolve Mr Js complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint about Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman