DRN-3503807
The complaint
Mr M has complained HSBC UK Bank plc didnt deal with his complaint about not getting his 
telephone security pack and then closed his account.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr M applied for an account online with HSBC. He received a welcome 
email as well as his new debit card, and PIN, through the post. He didnt get the security 
information he needed to enable online banking so contacted HSBC. They said theyd re-
send.
In October HSBC asked Mr M to go into a branch to provide additional ID for them to check. 
Mr M was unable to do this as his nearest branch was some way away and this was during 
the pandemic.
In November HSBC confirmed to Mr M they were closing his account as hed not provided 
what they needed. Although HSBC apologised for the service error and gave Mr M £75 he 
was unhappy with what had happened. Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator believed HSBC were able to ask for additional ID and that overall theyd 
done nothing wrong.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr M has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, theres no dispute Mr M didnt get the security information he required after opening 
his new HSBC account. HSBC apologised and gave him £75 for their error. I need to confirm 
upfront that I believe this compensation is fair and reasonable for the service failure Mr M 
encountered.
In the end this isnt the main issue. HSBC closed his account before Mr M was able to use it. 
I think the reason no further information was ever sent to Mr M was that HSBC had decided 
they wished to see further ID within branch. This allowed them to conduct the further checks 
banks often wish to undertake when customers make an online application. They gave Mr M 
a timescale for going into a branch. Mr M was unable to meet this deadline and therefore  
as further security had not been completed  HSBC made the decision to close Mr Ms 
account. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions for Mr Ms account. These allow HSBC to do 
what theyve done.
Ive considered Mr Ms point that this was during a national pandemic and so he didnt feel 
he was being asked to do something appropriate. Ive also noted his nearest branch wasnt 
exactly next door. However, Ive seen no evidence Mr M contacted HSBC to explain his 
concerns or try and explore another way of providing what was needed. I dont believe its 
unreasonable of HSBC to set a timescale and then follow that through. Again, Im satisfied 
their terms and conditions allow them to do this.
Mr M is concerned that HSBCs actions go against the provisions of the Banking Code. I 
dont believe this is the case. Ive reviewed what happened and cant see HSBCs actions 
run counter to regulatory provisions.
Mr M is also worried this would have a negative impact on his credit record. I can reassure 
him this wont be the case.
HSBC can make their own decisions about who they wish to offer accounts to. In Mr Ms 
case I believe his account was closed because he didnt attend the branch within the 
required timescale. Whilst I understand why this upset Mr M, I dont think HSBC has done 
anything wrong and wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against HSBC 
UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman