DRN-3679301
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
On 6 October 2021, Mr and Mrs T booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel in 
January 2022. Unfortunately, in December 2021, Mrs T was diagnosed with an enlarged 
heart and heart failure. She was told she wasnt fit to take the trip. So Mr and Mrs T 
cancelled their holiday and made a claim on their policy.
UKI turned down the claim. It considered medical evidence from Mrs Ts GP which said 
shed first consulted them with symptoms of her condition on 31 August 2021. And Mrs T 
told UKI that shed been referred for an x-ray on 26 September 2021. The x-ray took place 
the day after the trip was booked and ultimately resulted in Mrs Ts diagnosis with heart 
failure. So UKI concluded that Mrs Ts condition was a pre-existing medical condition which 
was specifically excluded by the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mrs Ts 
GP visit and referral fell within UKIs definition of a pre-existing medical condition. And that 
the policy terms made it clear that UKI wouldnt cover pre-existing conditions unless theyd 
been declared to and accepted by it. In this case, UKI had said that if Mrs T had declared 
that she was under investigation, it wouldve excluded cover for any claims relating to the 
condition under investigation. Overall, he thought itd been fair for UKI to turn down Mr and 
Mrs Ts claim.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They said that on 18 August 2021, theyd declared their pre-
existing medical conditions to UKI and had paid an additional premium for cover. And they 
said Mrs T had only visited the GP on 27 September 2021 with symptoms of breathlessness. 
Shed been booked in for an x-ray and at no point had the GP told them about the possibility 
of a severe diagnosis. They said they werent able to declare what they didnt know, and 
they wouldnt have booked the trip had they realised Mrs T had a serious condition.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and the 
circumstances of their claim, to decide whether UKI handled their claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ts contract with UKI. 
Page 15 of the policy terms sets out a Medical Declaration. This says:
When you become an insured person or when you book your trip (whichever is later):
You must tell us about each pre-existing medical condition you wish to be covered for any 
insured person. This is any medical condition for which you:
 have received advice, treatment or a prescription for medication (whether taking it or not) 
from a doctor during the last 12 months;
 have a heart or cancer related condition;
 are under investigation or awaiting diagnosis;
 are on a waiting list for treatment as an in-patient or were aware of the need for treatment 
as an in-patient;
 have received a terminal prognosis.
Ive looked carefully at the Cancellation section of the policy. As Mr and Mrs T had to cancel 
their trip, I think it was reasonable for UKI to consider their claim under this part of the policy. 
Page 21 sets out a list of things UKI specifically excludes from cancellation cover. This list 
includes the following:
any claim that is the result of a pre-existing medical condition. This exclusion will
not apply if that pre-existing medical condition had already been declared to us and
accepted by us in writing.
UKI has included the following definition of a pre-existing medical condition on page 10:
Any medical condition for which, at the date you became an insured person or the date 
when you booked your trip, whichever is later, you:
 had received advice, medication or treatment from a doctor during the last 12 months;
 were under investigation or awaiting diagnosis;
 were on a waiting list for treatment as an in-patient or were aware of the need for
treatment as an in-patient; or
 have received a terminal prognosis.
In my view, UKI has made it sufficiently clear that it wont cover claims relating to a pre-
existing medical condition unless the condition has been declared to and accepted by it. UKI 
concluded that based on all of the available evidence, Mrs T did have a pre-existing medical 
condition at the time of booking the trip which she hadnt told it about. So Ive looked 
carefully at the evidence I have to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for UKI to draw.
Mr and Mrs T say that they declared their medical conditions to UKIs screening line on 18 
August 2021 when they bought an annual age-extension upgrade and paid an additional 
premium. The available evidence suggests that this was around 13 days before Mrs T first 
seems to have seen the GP and over a month before the referral. So it seems to me that 
there was nothing for Mr and Mrs T to declare in relation to Mrs Ts breathlessness at that 
point. It does indicate to me though that Mr and Mrs T were aware that there were some 
restrictions on cover and were most likely aware that they needed to be medically screened. 
For completeness though, Ive listened to the call between UKI and Mr T and I agree that Mr T did tell the call handler that he and Mrs T had medical conditions and that hed previously 
been diagnosed with cancer. However, during the call, Mr T said he didnt need medical 
cover on the policy and so UKI let him know that it would be excluded. Mr and Mrs Ts 
additional premium was paid for their age-extension upgrade, rather than a medical upgrade. 
This call was followed up by a policy schedule which was sent to Mr and Mrs T and which 
was dated on the same date as the call. The schedule says that there is no cover for pre-
existing medical conditions for either Mr or Mrs T. And I note the schedule says:
Should there be any change to an insured persons medical situation, you must inform us
immediately, as this could affect the travel insurance cover you receive and failure to do so, 
could mean we do not pay a claim.
Mr and Mrs T have also sent us a copy of the annual eligibility statement they received from 
their bank on 21 September 2021. This includes a summary of the main features and 
benefits of their account. Page 3 sets out information about the travel insurance policy. And 
it says:
If you or anyone who relies on this travel insurance policy has an existing medical condition, 
this condition is not covered unless you have called for medical screening and received 
confirmation of cover.
At the time of booking a journey, you or anyone who relies on this travel insurance policy has 
a pre-existing medical condition if any of the following statements applies to you/them:
 have received advice, treatment or a prescription for medication (whether taking it or not) 
from a doctor during the last 12 months;
 are under investigation or awaiting diagnosis or are receiving in-patient treatment or waiting 
to receive treatment;
 have been treated or diagnosed with a heart or cancer-related condition;
 have received a terminal prognosis at any time.
Ive thought carefully about all of the available evidence and the totality of the information Mr 
and Mrs T were given about the policy. The GPs medical certificate states that Mrs T first 
consulted them in relation to her condition on 31 August 2021. Mrs T says that the GP 
referred her for an x-ray on 26/27 September 2021. Its common ground that the holiday was 
booked on 6 October 2021  around a week after the referral for an x-ray and a day before 
the x-ray was due to take place. 
It seems to me then that at the point Mr and Mrs T booked their trip, Mrs T had received 
advice from the GP during the past 12 months and was under investigation for her 
symptoms. As such, I dont think it was unfair for UKI to conclude that her condition fell 
within the definition of a pre-existing medical condition. 
Theres no evidence to indicate that Mr and Mrs T contacted UKI to let it know about her GP 
visit or the x-ray referral ahead of booking their trip. And in my view, the information theyd 
been given about what UKI considered to be a pre-existing medical condition and the need 
to declare it ahead of trip booking was sufficiently clear that it ought to have reasonably 
prompted Mr and Mrs T to do so. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T didnt think it was likely that 
the symptoms Mrs T was experiencing would lead to a serious diagnosis and I understand 
that they werent aware of a specific diagnosis at that point. I accept that they wouldnt have 
booked the trip had they been aware of the possibility of Mrs T having a serious illness. But 
that wasnt the applicable requirement set out in the pre-existing condition definition.
In any event, UKI has told us that had Mr and Mrs T declared Mrs Ts referral for an x-ray, it 
wouldve excluded all cover for claims related to that condition. In my experience, most, if not all, travel insurers will exclude claims where a policyholder is undergoing investigations or 
waiting for a diagnosis. So I dont think UKIs position on this point is unusual.
I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ts position, as I appreciate theyve 
been through a worrying time and theyve been left significantly out of pocket. But overall, I 
dont think UKI acted unfairly when it concluded that Mrs Ts condition was pre-existing and 
that it was therefore excluded from cover. And I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could direct UKI to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman