DRN-3002783
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about Armstrong Watson Financial Planning Limited (the business)
and its inability to set up a Discounted Gift Trust (DGT).
  
What happened
In early July 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms a part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business is responsible
for failing to set up the DGT as requested by Mr and Mrs A, for the same reasons as set out
by the investigator.
As the business now accepts responsibility for this, I dont have to consider this point any
further. So, the key issue for me to consider is redress.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs A say, Im unable to
safely say that the redress methodology proposed by the investigator is unreasonable in the
circumstances. However, provisionally I think the business should pay Mr and Mrs A £800
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs A say about seeking remedial action elsewhere and looking at
all planning options now that the DGT isnt in place. They are of course free to choose
whatever course of action they please, however, in my opinion this doesnt change what I
think the business needs to do in order to try to make things right.
For the purposes of redress, Im looking at whats likely to have happened if the business
hadnt made the error. Having done so, I think the DGT wouldve been set up correctly  and
the investment by now wouldve been exempt from any IHT liability. So, by way of redress, in
the circumstances I think the business should correctly set up a DGT and pay compensation
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I appreciate the point Mr and Mrs A make, and Im aware that the investment most likely
wouldnt have had any IHT liability had the DGT been set up correctly at the outset. Thats
why I think its important that the business should also take out an indemnity covering any
outstanding IHT liability, in case the DGT doesnt cover it all. This way the investment
doesnt incur any IHT liability, and if it does the business will cover it, so that Mr and Mrs A or
their estate still doesnt suffer a financial loss.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask the
business to take out an indemnity for the potential IHT liability and issue an LOI, without at
least trying to correctly set up a DGT to mitigate any losses. In my opinion the Indemnity and
LOI would be a suitable and alternative course of action if its not possible to set up a DGT.
I also dont think this course of action (by way of mitigation) is unreasonable. Mr and Mrs A
arent being asked to spend their money, or to start giving it away, in the hope that it wont
attract as much IHT liability.
So, in an effort to place Mr and Mrs A close to the position they wouldve been in  but for
the error  I think the business should set up the DGT  as it shouldve done at the outset 
and cover the cost of doing so.
Given their age and circumstances, its possible that the DGT may not do what it was
intended to do, so the business should also take out an Indemnity to cover any outstanding
IHT liability.
I appreciate the business says that it will know more about the IHT liability once the DGT is
set up. Ive no issue with that approach as its already provided an undertaking in its letter
dated 22 February 2021.
Im conscious that theres no way of knowing what the actual IHT figure would be. For
example, if Mr and Mrs A die in the next seven years the amount of IHT payable will differ
depending on when they die as it will depend on the value of the bond at death.
In terms of compensation, I think the business should pay Mr and Mrs A £800 compensation
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In my opinion, the potential problem resulting from the investment not being in trust (and Mr
and Mrs As estate having to pay IHT on their deaths) hasnt materialised and is capable of
being rectified through the redress awarded. Im satisfied that the business will endeavour to
makes things right and ensure that Mr and Mrs A dont lose out financially.
However, despite what the business says, I think the error has materialised because the
DGT wasnt set up correctly, through no fault of Mr and Mrs A. But they now have to take
steps to help rectify the situation.
The higher award for compensation is to better reflect this, and as this is a joint complaint it
will mean that Mr and Mrs A each receive £400 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused. In the circumstances I dont agree with the business that the
compensation is now limited to complaint handling.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A will be unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator, but they still dont have what they wanted. Furthermore, I realise my decision
isn't what they want to hear. But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im
unable give them what they want.
In terms of redress I said:
Provisionally, I think Armstrong Watson Financial Planning Limited should do the following:
1. Set up the Discounted Gift Trust in question and cover any associated costs in doing 
so. 
2. Set up/takeout an Indemnity to cover any potential IHT, in case the DGT doesnt do 
what its intended to and fails to provide the same IHT mitigation that would have 
been provided if a DGT had been set up originally.
3. Pay Mr and Mrs A £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If its not possible to set up a DGT, Armstrong Watson Financial Planning Limited should:
1. Provide a Letter of Indemnity setting out the position regarding IHT liability and cover 
any costs in doing so.2. Take out an Indemnity to cover the outstanding IHT liability covering all costs.
3. Pay Mr and Mrs A £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The business responded and said it sought clarification on a couple of matters before a final 
decision was issues. It said:
we would like to seek clarification on a couple of aspects prior to the
Ombudsman issuing a final decision:-
Part of the redress methodology requires the clients to accept that Armstrong Watson 
places the bond in Trust, which they had previously rejected as part of the 
adjudication. We would therefore appreciate confirmation on whether the client have 
now accepted this point or provided any further objection. Obviously we view this 
element as being critical in order to agree how any indemnity should be set up.
In terms of the indemnity, this remains dependant on a number of variables not least 
the fund value should an IHT liability situation arise. It is therefore possible for the 
clients to influence investment decisions which could impact on this liability. On this 
basis we would like to propose that any indemnity which is taken out be made 
against a fixed fund value at a point such as the date of the final decision. As you will 
appreciate to put the clients back in the position they would have been in, they would 
not have had the benefit of a third party standing behind any potential IHT liability. 
This could potentially lead the clients to make investment decisions that they would 
not usually make. In order to mitigate against that in the fairness of both parties, we 
propose to fix the value of the fund at a point such as that of the final decision.
Mr and Mrs A also responded and said:
Our thoughts are that this just needs to be sorted out as we are getting older and time is 
ticking. When we have indemnity for the error we will be happy. Our responses to the points 
are 
- We dont believe that the current bond can be placed into a Discounted Gift Trust without it 
being cashed in and the tax issues this may cause. But if it can and the income can remain 
the same then yes we will happily put it into a Discounted Gift Trust like it should have been 
at the beginning.
We dont wish to place it into a Trust which is not a Discounted Gift Trust as we understand 
this would cause issues and potentially stop the monthly income we currently get of £583pm 
which is not ideal and would not put us in the position we would have been in if things were 
set up correctly at the beginning. 
- Okay, we accept this point as being fair so that there is a set value used to calculate the 
indemnity amount.
I notified the business of Mr and Mrs As response. The business provided the following 
response:
Thank you for providing confirmation of the response received from Mr & Mrs A (name 
anonymised) following the queries we submitted earlier in August. Considering the bond / 
Discounted Gift Trust, we note the clients acceptance to AWFP making the necessary 
arrangements to place the bond in a Discounted Gift Trust (this will be done without 
considering the suitability of the arrangement). We also note the conditions highlighted by 
the clients specifically their need for the monthly income currently being received to be retained. We can confirm that any action taken will take this requirement into account and as 
accepted previously any associated costs in completing this will be covered by AWFP.
In terms of the indemnity we also note the clients acceptance to using a fixed fund value. As 
AWFP have no authority to obtain information regarding this bond, we would appreciate it if 
you could provide confirmation on the current fund value including evidence in support of 
this, so agreement on this particular point can be achieved and to mitigate against any 
dispute over the current fund value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new material submissions, my decision to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same 
reasons. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I still uphold this complaint.
In principle, I dont think Mr and Mrs A object to the business setting up a DGT. Theres no 
reason for the business to just place the bond in trust, thats not what Ive asked it to do, and 
its not saying thats what it will do. 
I dont know if the business is able to place the bond into a DGT without cashing it in first. 
But if it must cash it in it must cover any associated costs  including the tax implications 
arising from this  as made clear in my provisional decision. I note the business has no 
objections to this. 
Its not clear if Mr and Mrs A will still be able to draw an income of £583 a month, but its 
likely that they will be able to draw a similar income, if the DGT is set up correctly as it 
shouldve been. I note its something that theyre very keen on and that the business has 
undertaken to take this into account when setting up the DGT. 
Mr and Mrs A should bear in mind that it wont be possible to put them in the exact same 
position they wouldve been in, but for the error. So, in the circumstances my objective is to 
try and put them back as close as possible to the position they wouldve been in, but for the 
business failing to set up the DGT. Thats partly why Ive also awarded higher compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to each of them.  
I appreciate the indemnity will be depend on several variables/factors. I dont think its 
unreasonable for the business to use a set value to be used for calculating the indemnity 
amount. In other words, I dont think the businesss proposal to fix the value of the fund using 
the date of the final decision, is unreasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, thats what I 
think it should do.  
As the bond still belongs to Mr and Mrs A, I dont think its unreasonable for them to provide 
the business with any information that the business may need to carry out the remedial work, 
such as providing evidence of the fund value. 
  
Putting things rightArmstrong Watson Financial Planning Limited should do the following:
1. Set up the Discounted Gift Trust in question and cover any associated costs in doing 
so. 
2. Set up/takeout an Indemnity to cover any potential IHT  using a fixed fund value, 
using on the date of the final decision  in case the DGT doesnt do what its intended 
to and fails to provide the same IHT mitigation that would have been provided if a 
DGT had been set up originally.
3. Pay Mr and Mrs A £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If its not possible to set up a DGT, Armstrong Watson Financial Planning Limited should:
1. Provide a Letter of Indemnity setting out the position regarding IHT liability and cover 
any costs in doing so.
2. Take out an Indemnity  using a fixed fund value, using the date of the final decision 
 to cover the outstanding IHT liability and covering all costs.
3. Pay Mr and Mrs A £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Armstrong Watson Financial Planning Limited should pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman