DRN-2832267
The complaint
Mr K, a sole trader, is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank Plc handled his applications for a 
Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr K says he was advised by his accountant to apply for a Bounce Back Loan. He 
approached Lloyds, who he held a personal account with, to apply.
 
Before he could apply for a Bounce Back Loan, Lloyds first asked Mr K to apply for a 
business current account  which he did. But shortly after, the bank wrote to Mr K to explain 
his application had been declined. Lloyds explained it had some criteria in place when it 
assessed applications, and it listed several reasons why Mr Ks application couldve failed. 
Mr K was unhappy with this decision, so he complained. Lloyds sent its final response on 
25 June 2020. In it, the bank explained eligibility checks had been completed and 
Mr Ks application had been declined.
 
After he received this letter Mr K called Lloyds. He said he felt Lloyds were always going to 
decline his application  so he wanted to know why the bank had asked him to apply for the 
account.
 
Lloyds sent a further response to Mr K on 29 June. It said it asked customers to apply for a 
business current account so they can apply for a Bounce Back Loan  and it stressed that it 
didnt know the outcome of an application until its been assessed.
  
Mr K remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. He said that, after his 
business current account application was declined, he was advised to apply for a 
Bounce Back Loan through his personal account  but this application was declined too. 
He wanted to know why Lloyds advised him to apply this way, if he was never going to be 
accepted.
 
An investigator considered what had happened, and he felt Lloyds couldve handled Mr Ks 
applications better. He said Lloyds was entitled to request that Mr K open a business current 
account, but he didnt think the bank had been very clear with him about the application 
process, so he said it should pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
it had caused.
 
Lloyds agreed to the investigators findings, but Mr K remained unhappy. He said he still 
wanted the bank to explain why it had put him through the application process twice, when it 
knew he wouldnt be accepted.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin with, I should set out that I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in requiring Mr K 
to open a business current account before he could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. Under 
the Scheme rules, Lloyds had the discretion to decide how it accepted applications  
including those from existing customers. So, while Mr K already had a personal account, 
Lloyds was entitled to require that he enter into a business relationship.
 
Mr K believes Lloyds knew his application for a business current account would fail before 
he submitted it. He says that the banks letter explaining its decision set out that the 
business current account needed to be opened and used for his business before 
2 March 2020. And so as he only applied in June, the application was never going to 
succeed. But I dont agree that the letter says this.
 
Instead, the letter refers to Mr Ks personal account  and how it wouldve been necessary 
for Lloyds to see that account had been open and used for business before 2 March. That 
wouldve been possible. So I dont think the application failed for this reason.
More broadly, Lloyds has said it didnt pre-judge the outcome of Mr Ks business current 
account application, and Ive not seen anything to suggest it did. Looking at the basis for the 
banks decision, I dont think it wouldve known the outcome until the application was 
assessed. So, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in inviting Mr K to apply for the 
account.
 
After Lloyds declined the account application, it seems the bank told Mr K to apply for a 
Bounce Back Loan through his personal account. Its unclear why Lloyds gave this 
instruction, particularly because Mr K had just taken the time to go through a business 
current account application having been told hed need one. And the bank has since 
acknowledged that Mr K shouldnt have been told to apply with his personal account. So I 
can understand his frustration at the inconsistent messaging. And I think the mis-information 
put Mr K to some avoidable inconvenience, in completing a further application unnecessarily.
With everything Ive set out in mind, I think Lloyds communication with Mr K couldve been 
clearer. If it had been, Mr K wouldve had information significant to deciding his next steps. 
And he may have realised much earlier that  based on his declared turnover  he wasnt 
eligible for a Bounce Back Loan at all.
 
Mr K has set out how Lloyds actions impacted his health, and Im sorry to hear of the 
problems hes faced. So, I think its right that the bank compensates him for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. The investigator recommended Lloyds pay Mr K £150 
compensation and, in the overall circumstances of what happened, I think thats a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint.
My final decision My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mr K 
£150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman