DRN-1735530
The complaint
Mr L complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr L was given a single loan by AvantCredit in January 2016. He told Avantcredit that 
the loan purpose was debt consolidation. Here are the loan details: 
Loan Date taken Date repaid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*
1 01/01/2016 Not repaid 48 £8,500.00 £304.80
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators who didnt think 
Avantcredit did sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan. But our adjudicator 
also didnt feel hed seen enough to say that if Avantcredit had done better checks it 
wouldve made a different lending decision.
So our adjudicator wasnt able to say that the loan shouldnt have been agreed and he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld or that AvantCredit needed to pay anything to 
Mr L.
Mr L didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He mainly said that Avantcredit didnt 
check for evidence of debt consolidation or take properly into account his very poor 
credit score  which included a registered default.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ls complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr L.
what checks did Avantcredit do before agreeing to lend to Mr L?
AvantCredit gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed the loan. It asked 
him for details of his income and verified this by looking at information available on his 
bank statement. Avantcredit noted details of his normal monthly spending including his 
rent and council tax, utility bills and the costs of running his car as well as an amount 
for other monthly expenses. 
It also used some industry statistical data to assess Mr Ls application. And it did a 
credit check to assess how much he was already repaying to other creditors.
what did the checks show? Mr Ls monthly income was £2479, and Avantcredit worked out that his monthly outgoings 
came to £1,200, which included an amount of £808 for his monthly spending on other credit. 
It allowed for some extra unplanned spending when working out what he could afford. And it 
concluded that the monthly repayment of £304.80 on this loan shouldve been affordable for 
him  particularly bearing in mind that Mr L told Avantcredit the loan would be used to pay off 
other debt, so Avantcredit mightve reasonably expected this would reduce his current credit 
costs.
did Avantcredit do proportionate checks? 
Mr L was entering into a very significant commitment with AvantCredit. He would need to 
make substantial monthly repayments on this loan for the next 4 years. The credit check 
AvantCredit did suggested that Mr L wasnt heavily reliant on credit at that time  it 
showed that hed opened two new credit accounts within the previous 3 months (including 
a short term loan) and his debt balance had gone up by £396. The check showed no 
indications of insolvency, court judgements or any defaults within the previous 12 months. 
But Avantcredit could see Mr L had a default on his record suggesting that hed struggled 
to make some repayments in the past. So I would expect that AvantCredit would want to 
gather, and independently check, some more detailed information about Mr Ls financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him.  
I can see that the credit information it obtained was incomplete  there were, for instance, 
two big loans that Avantcredit didnt know about because they didnt appear on its credit 
checks. And it seems that Avantcredit only looked at a bank statement which showed 
transactions over a single month.
So, like our adjudicator, I dont think that the checks Avantcredit did were enough. I think 
it would have been proportionate for AvantCredit do more to check the true state of Mr Ls 
finances before agreeing the loan.
did Avantcredit make a fair lending decision?
Although I dont think the checks AvantCredit did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
that isnt a good enough reason for me to be able to uphold Mr Ls complaint. In order for 
Mr Ls complaint to succeed, I would need to be able to say that proportionate checks 
would have shown AvantCredit that Mr L couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
Mr L has provided us with various credit reports and bank statements. It looks like he had a 
number of open credit card accounts when he arranged this loan  Ive seen information 
showing that three credit cards were either at or very close to their credit limits. His current 
account bank statement showed that Mr Ls agreed overdraft limit was £1,500 and by the 
end of December 2015 (when he was applying for this loan) he had used all his available 
credit at the bank and was around £1,500 overdrawn. But I can also see from the credit 
report Mr L sent me that he settled one of his outstanding loans that month so I've kept this 
in mind when thinking about his finances generally. 
Mr L had some missed payments showing on his record  but it doesnt appear that Mr L 
had any court judgements or defaults recorded in the 12 months running up to this loan. And 
whilst his credit balance on all active accounts at the time was shown as £6,972, checks 
showed he had only taken out 1 other short term loan account within the last 3 months  and 
only 4 in total in the last 6 months. Mr L had borrowing which wasnt shown on the information that Avantcredit gathered. And 
I've taken into account everything that Mr L has told me about his financial situation and the 
information in his response to our adjudicators view. 
I think its fair to say that Avantcredit had an incomplete understanding of Mr Ls true 
financial situation. But I havent seen enough overall to make me think that even if 
Avantcredit had sought a fuller picture of Mr Ls finances it shouldve realised that the loan 
wasnt sustainable for him. 
I've taken into account everything that I think its likely Avantcredit shouldve found out 
about Mr Ls actual financial situation when he applied for this loan  and I havent seen 
enough to make me think that Avantcredit shouldve made a different lending decision had 
it seen all this information. I think it wouldve been reasonable to conclude that the loan it 
provided looked like it ought to be affordable for Mr L.
Ive taken on board Mr Ls point that, beyond asking the loan purpose, Avantcredit wasnt 
involved in making sure the loan was used for the purpose he had stated. So, potentially, 
there was a risk that Mr L would be adding to his debt problems with this loan. 
And Im mindful that whilst the loan amount of £8500 would have appeared to be enough to 
clear all of the outstanding debts showing on Avantcredits report (£6972) that wasnt the 
case in reality as there was also more credit outstanding that Avantcredits checks didnt 
show.  
But even if this loan wouldnt have cleared all of Mr Ls outstanding debt I think he could still 
have used it to help him significantly lower his monthly credit commitment. So I cant fairly 
say that Avantcredit provided the loan irresponsibly or unfairly.
And, as far as I can see, it looks like after taking out this Avantcredit loan Mr L paid off at 
least one loan and settled one of his credit card accounts in January 2016 and he cleared 
another loan the following month in February 2016. So it looks like this loan offered Mr L the 
possibility of improving his financial situation  and that he may well have used at least some 
of the money for debt consolidation to help him improve his day to day financial situation. 
I appreciate that Mr L feels strongly about this complaint and that he will be disappointed 
in my decision. And Im sorry that he is now struggling financially and he has been 
unable to repay this loan and is facing other payment problems. But I dont think 
Avantcredit could reasonably have foreseen this when it provided this loan to him. And 
even if it had completed the proportionate checks that it ought to have done, it still 
wouldnt have seen enough to prompt it to decline his loan application. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold his irresponsible lending complaint. 
has Avantcredit acted unfairly in any other way?  
Avantcredit has told us that when Mr L indicated that his financial circumstances had 
changed, it acted sympathetically and agreed to work with him by placing the account on a 
reduced repayment plan and freezing interest and fees on his account when required. 
Avantcredit said it had continued to freeze interest and fee accrual while accepting reduced 
monthly repayments to provide Mr L with the best possible outcome in light of his financial 
situation. I dont think I can reasonably require Avantcredit to do more than continue to work 
constructively with Mr L to help him find a solution to his debt problems. And I cant see 
that Avantcredit has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr L so as to warrant me 
awarding any payment.
If Mr L feels he needs to review his payment arrangements he should contact 
Avantcredit and discuss options. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr L but I think it is reasonable for 
AvantCredit to expect him to repay what he has borrowed  although on flexible terms to 
reflect his financial situation while he has continuing money problems. 
I take this opportunity to remind Avantcredit (or any a third-party debt collection agent) that it 
should always discuss payment options constructively with Mr L and treat him fairly and 
sympathetically if Mr L needs further time to pay what he still owes.
If Mr L would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get free 
debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
AvantCredit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman