DRN-3650020
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way BUPA Insurance Limited handled a claim made on behalf of 
his daughter on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA (the policy). His 
daughter, who Ill refer to as Miss A, was a named beneficiary of the policy. 
Mr A contacted BUPA in December 2021 as Miss A was experiencing anxiety and he 
wanted her to see a child psychologist. BUPAs representative sent him the details of several 
approved psychologists and provided an authorisation code.
Early in January 2022, Mr A contacted BUPA to say that the psychologists were either 
unavailable or didnt offer child psychology. He also provided details of a child psychologist 
(who Ill refer to as Dr E) who was available that week to meet with Miss A, and was based 
at the same practice where one of BUPAs recognised psychologists (who Ill refer to as Dr 
P) was based. Mr A was told by BUPAs representative that they would raise the issue 
internally and get back to him. 
Five days later, BUPA contacted Mr A to say that it had spoken to Dr Ps secretary and 
although there was a waiting list, they would have availability from the end of February 2022. 
Mr A said he wasnt willing to wait six weeks for Miss A to see Dr P; that hed already 
arranged for Miss A to see Dr E and the first appointment had already taken place. Mr A also 
doubted that Dr P would be available to meet with Miss A anytime soon.
Mr A would like BUPA to cover the costs hes incurred for Miss As appointments with Dr E. 
BUPA has declined to do so as Dr E isnt one of its recognised consultants. 
Unhappy, Mr A complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr A 
disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
I understand Mr As disappointment but for the reasons set out below, I dont think BUPA 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So, I dont uphold his complaint.
Subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, the policy does provide 
cover for the costs of recognised consultants. Dr E wasnt a consultant recognised by 
BUPA so under the terms of the policy, their fees wouldnt be covered.
Ive thought about whether this leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint, and I think it does. 
Mr A had been given the names of some psychologists who were approved by 
BUPA. I know Mr A says that they were either unavailable or werent suitable for Miss 
A but he decided to book an appointment (and pay) for Miss A to see Dr E when he 
was aware that this hadnt been approved by BUPA. When he told BUPA on 8 
January 2022 about the situation and that Dr E was available, BUPA notified him that 
the issue would need to be considered internally.
Mr A was told five days later that BUPA wouldnt cover Dr Es costs. So, whilst I can 
understand why he wouldve wanted Miss A to meet with a psychologist as soon as 
possible, I dont think BUPA acted unreasonably by wanting to consider Mr As 
request as it fell outside of the terms of the policy. 
BUPAs internal records reflect that Dr Ps secretary was called on 13 January 2022 
and its representative was told that Dr P had a waiting list but would be available at 
the end of February 2022. I know Mr A disputes this was the case, but I dont think 
BUPA has acted unreasonably by accepting what it was told by the secretary as true. 
In response to our investigators view, Mr A said that he was able to provide an email 
from the practice where Dr P and Dr E were based to confirm that Dr P had no 
availability, and that what BUPA had been told was a mistake. Our investigator 
requested this from Mr A on 3 and 15 November 2022 but Mr A hasnt responded. 
So, overall, Im persuaded that at the time BUPA took the decision to not cover the 
costs of Dr E, it had been told that one of its recognised consultants would be 
available to meet with Miss A from the end of February 2022. Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me that a wait of around six weeks was unreasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint, although I appreciate that this is longer than Mr A wanted to wait. 
As part of its investigation into Mr As complaint, BUPAs internal notes reflect that, 
on 7 February 2022, it, again, contacted the practice where Dr E and Dr P were 
based and was then told that Dr P was full, and their waiting list was currently closed. 
But based on everything Ive seen Im persuaded that in mid-January 2022 Dr P 
wouldve been available to start meeting with Miss A in late February 2022.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman