DRN-4346349
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has declined a claim he made under his
commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has a commercial property insurance policy with AXA, the policy covers five properties
Mr M owns and rents out.
When the tenant vacated one of the properties covered by the policy, Mr M discovered
extensive damage had been caused. Mr M subsequently made a claim to AXA, as his policy
covered malicious damage caused by tenants.
AXA declined the claim. They said Mr M hadnt complied with the conditions outlined in the
policy terms for the malicious damage caused by tenants cover to apply.
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs position, so he approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said that
Mr M hadnt complied with the policy terms, so she said AXAs decision to decline the claim
was reasonable.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
Ill also outline here that whilst I take into account the policy terms and conditions, my 
remit also extends to what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case. What that means is I can also direct AXA to deal with a claim outside the 
strict application of the policy terms, if I decide its fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case to do so.
Mr Ms policy covers a number of different insured events. In relation to malicious 
damage by tenants, the policy terms outline:
Malicious damage and theft by tenants cover 
We will cover you for malicious damage and loss by theft caused by your 
tenants provided that you
1 carry out internal and external inspections of the building(s) at least every 3 
months or as frequently as is permitted under the tenancy agreement and
a maintain a log of those inspections and retain that log for at least 24 
months
b carry out a 6 monthly management check of the inspections log
2 obtain satisfactory credit references from a licenced Credit Referencing 
Agency prior to granting the tenancy with the tenant having given permission 
for this information to be released in the event of a claim
3 obtain and record details of your tenants bank account and verify those 
details by receiving rental payments from that account
4 obtain and retain a written formal identification of any prospective tenant
5 do not permit any sub-letting of your property
If you do not comply with the above conditions you will not be covered and we 
will not pay your claim.
The terms also outline the maximum cover limit under malicious damage by tenants 
in any one period of insurance is £5,000.
After the tenant vacated Mr Ms property, he discovered extensive damage so made 
a malicious damage by tenants claim.
AXA declined the claim as they say Mr M hasnt complied with the above term. AXA 
hasnt pointed specifically to which requirements individually they think Mr M has or 
hasnt satisfied. Instead, theyve focussed on all the points not being met, which is a 
requirement for the cover to be provided. Ill consider each of the requirements 
separately.
Internal and external inspections
As outlined above, inspections need to be carried out at three-month intervals (or as
frequently as is permitted under the tenancy agreement).Mr M has provided AXA with a log of the inspections dating back five years. Having 
seen this, it appears that the inspections were carried out on a six-monthly basis. 
From what Ive seen, the tenancy agreement doesnt outline a specific timescale for 
inspections, and instead outlines with notice, but not how frequently they are 
permitted.
Mr M has said:
Internal and external inspections were completed every 3 months initially for 
the first approx. 3 years, I then extended these to every 6 months due to no 
issues being identified
So, it does appear that Mr M, after having the tenant in situ for three years, decided 
that due to no damage or issues during inspections, to revert the inspections to every 
six months.
Whilst it appears Mr M could have carried these out every three months, I dont think 
that Mr M not strictly complying with the inspection requirement means it would be 
fair or reasonable in all the circumstances for AXA to rely on non-compliance to 
decline the claim. 
I say this because the tenant was in place for ten years. So, they were a long-
standing tenant. At all the inspections over the ten-year period, no damage or 
concerns were identified. So, whilst Mr M may have been able to inspect more 
frequently, Im not persuaded not doing so is material to the loss that ultimately 
occurred.
If it was a new tenant, then I might have reached a different view on this point, but 
given they were in situ for ten years, I dont think by only inspecting every six months 
rather than three, given there was no previous damage or cause for concern, 
increased any risk to Mr M or AXA.
Furthermore, the last inspection was September 2022, and no damage was identified 
then. If an inspection was carried out three months later, this would have been 
December 2022. That month was the last time the tenant paid rent before vacating in 
February 2023.
The fact the tenant stopped paying rent in breach of their tenancy agreement, they 
also may not have allowed access to Mr M to inspect the property anyway. And to 
gain access, Mr M would have needed to go through lengthy legal processes, and he 
may not have been able gain access any sooner than when the tenant vacated in 
February 2023 anyway. So, on balance, I dont think what happened in terms of the 
frequency of the inspections is material to the damage caused and the subsequent 
claim being made.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im not minded to conclude it would be fair or reasonable for AXA to rely on 
a breach of this condition alone to deny the malicious damage by tenants claim.Credit refence agency
The full policy term says the following is a requirement:
obtain satisfactory credit references from a licenced Credit Referencing 
Agency prior to granting the tenancy with the tenant having given permission 
for this information to be released in the event of a claim
Mr M hasnt had credit checks carried out on the tenant at any point.
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for AXA to rely on non-
compliance with this to decline the malicious damage by tenants claim. Ill explain 
why.
The malicious damage by tenants policy cover (and requirements) wasnt introduced 
until 2017, which was a year after Mr M took out the policy. At that point, Mr M had 
already had the tenant in situ for around four years. And he confirms that at the time 
of the tenancy starting, he obtained references from the previous landlord, and this 
included confirming the tenant had always paid rent on time.
Given the tenant was in situ, and had been paying rent for around four years, I dont 
think it would then have been reasonable to expect Mr M to carry out credit checks 
on the tenant some significant way into the tenancy, as this would normally be 
carried out prior to a tenancy being started.
And this is reflected in the requirement here, as it says prior to granting the tenancy. 
And it doesnt outline the policyholder needs to have (past tense) obtained this when 
granting the tenancy previously, and before cover started. Instead, it says obtain 
when granting a tenancy, which in my view is future tense, rather than past tense. 
So, I dont interpret this to mean its a requirement if there is already a tenant 
currently in situ, and instead applies for any future tenant obtaining a tenancy during 
the period of cover.
Furthermore, the term outlines a satisfactory credit reference. But doesnt clarify what
satisfactory actually means in real terms. So even if Mr M had later carried this out 
(which I dont think the terms require), its unclear what AXA would be expecting it to 
show. And even if there were negatives shown, such as CCJs, at this point the 
tenancy would already have been in place for several years. So even if there was 
clear information about what AXA was expecting here from a credit check, it is 
unclear what actions AXA would be expecting Mr M to take, several years into a 
tenancy agreement, if it showed anything negatively.
And finally, this term was introduced at renewal in 2017. It doesnt say a credit check 
needs to be completed each year either, just prior to tenancy. So, although Mr M 
didnt have this completed either pre-tenancy, or when this term was introduced in 
2017 (which I dont think he would have been able to anyway), I dont think 
compliance with this at either of those points would have had any bearing on the 
same tenant causing malicious damage some seven years after the term was 
introduced.
In fact, Mr M has confirmed that whilst no credit checks were completed ten years 
prior, during the ten-year tenancy, there were no payment issues during that time. 
So, I fail to see what relevance to the loss this would have had here.Therefore, Im not minded to conclude its fair or reasonable for AXA to rely on a 
breach of this requirement to reject the malicious damage by tenants claim.
Tenants bank account and receiving payments
I dont think there is any dispute whether this requirement has been satisfied, as the 
tenant was in situ for ten years, and paid rent to Mr Ms bank account during this time 
 and hes provided evidence of receiving payment. From what Ive seen, AXA 
accepts Mr M has complied with this requirement.
Identification of tenant
Mr M says when the tenant took on the tenancy, he didnt obtain any identification 
from them as this wasnt a requirement at the time.
In any event, the term says any prospective tenant. The tenant wasnt prospective 
either when the policy was taken out, or when the malicious damage term was 
introduced in 2017, or since then. Instead, they were already in situ for several years, 
so I dont think it can reasonably be said this term hasnt been complied with.
Furthermore, my understanding is that the general purpose of this type of 
requirement would be to help ensure a genuine person is taking up a tenancy, rather 
than under a false name, and for example, to use the property for illegal activities. 
But here, the tenant was in situ for ten years, with regular inspections being carried 
out, regular rent payments being made, without any issues until 2023.
So, I dont think this point would apply given its for prospective tenants and isnt 
material to the loss here in any event.
Sub-letting
I dont think there is any dispute whether this requirement has been satisfied, as 
there hasnt been anything which shows the property has been sub-let. So, from what 
Ive seen, AXA accepts Mr M has complied with this requirement.
So, in summary, Im minded to conclude the only requirement which may have been
breached is the inspections frequency point. But for the reasons outlined, Im not 
minded to conclude it would be fair or reasonable for AXA to rely on that (or the other 
points), to conclude the requirements havent been met, or to decline the claim on 
this basis. 
Therefore, Im minded to conclude it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to 
reconsider the malicious damage by tenants claim in line with the remaining terms of 
the policy.
Policy cover
AXA declined the claim made which was for malicious damage by tenants. And Im 
not minded to conclude this was fair or reasonable for the reasons outlined. 
However, AXA only considered the claim against malicious damage by tenants 
cover, and no other insured peril.When Mr M raised the claim, this was for:
Doors pulled off
Doors pulled off kitchen units
Kitchen floor ripped
Windows smashed
Front door has been kicked in
Bath has been damaged
Rear garden debris
Carpets ripped and ruined
Hole in the floor
Holes in the walls
In cases where a tenant moves out, and damage is discovered, it will often be raised 
as a malicious damage by tenants claim by the landlord. But AXA should already be 
aware that under this peril, for the damage to be covered (putting aside any 
exclusions), the key point is that the damage needs to have been caused maliciously 
 i.e., deliberately intended to cause harm, and by the tenant.
However, whilst damage may be present, its not always the case that there was 
malicious intent by the tenant. Instead, damage may have been caused accidentally 
by the tenant during the time they lived in the property, rather than maliciously. Or 
sometimes that the damage, such as smashed windows or doors, might be due to a 
third party, maliciously or as vandalism, rather than by the tenant.
Looking at the list of reported damage, some of this may well be accidentally rather 
than maliciously caused, and some (externally) might have been caused by third 
parties, not the tenant. Mr Ms policy does cover accidental damage as an insured 
event, along with malicious damage and vandalism more generally. And both of 
these perils dont have the same £5,000 policy limit either.
But it seems AXA solely focussed on malicious damage by tenants and refused the 
claim (incorrectly in my view). But AXA didnt go on to consider accidental damage 
(or any other insured event). And I think they should have done, even if they intended 
on declining the malicious damage by tenants claim.
So, in addition to reconsidering the malicious damage by tenants claim in line with 
the remaining terms, Im also minded to direct AXA to consider whether accidental 
damage, or any other insured event, applies here.
Service
As outlined, I dont think AXA reasonably declined the claim outright, and they should 
have considered the claim against the malicious damage by tenants, alongside any 
other insured events which might apply.
Not doing so has resulted in Mr M having to pay a considerable amount towards 
putting damage right, when its likely that at least some (if not all) the damage 
potentially should have been covered under the policy and across the various insured 
perils. And its clear that this has caused Mr M distress and inconvenience at what 
was already a difficulty time in discovering his property was extensively damage and 
having to fund repairs.So, in addition to reconsidering the claim, Im also minded to direct AXA to pay Mr M 
£350 compensation for the impact of this, and the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct AXA to reconsider the 
malicious damage claim in line with the policy terms, consider whether any other insured 
event under the policy applied for the loss and damage caused, and to pay £350 
compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded and said he agreed with the provisional decision.
AXA asked for an extension to the deadline to provide a response. Despite the deadline 
being extended, they didnt provide a response or any further comments. As the extended 
deadline has now passed, Im moving forward with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, as neither party has provided anything which would lead me to depart from my 
provisional findings, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
reconsider the malicious damage by tenants claim in line with the remaining terms of 
the policy
consider whether any other insured event under the policy terms applies for the loss 
and damage caused
pay Mr M £350 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman