DRN-2152871
The complaint
Mr Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc said it would only carry out a soft search when
opening a new currency account for him, but it carried out a hard search, which was
recorded on his credit file. He wanted the search taken off.
What happened
Mr Y applied for a new foreign currency account with HSBC, and checked the
documentation, which said only a soft search would be done. But a hard search was made,
and shows on his credit file. Mr Y said that HSBC had since changed the wording on its
website, so it now tells new applicants that a hard search would be made.
Mr Y said making this search without telling him was a breach of his rights. He wanted a
written apology, explaining why HSBC had made the mistake of telling him only a soft search
would be done. And he wanted the hard search removed from his credit file.
HSBC said it hadnt made a mistake by doing a hard search, but it had made a mistake in
telling Mr Y that it was only going to do a soft search. It accepted that its website had been
misleading. It said it had paid him £100 to say sorry. But it wouldnt take the search record
off his credit file unless he closed the account. Mr Y had deposited a large amount of foreign
currency in the account. HSBC said he would be likely to incur charges if the account closed,
but it thought this would always have been the case if Mr Y wasnt prepared to have a hard
search for a new account on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mr Y had confirmed there was
no additional impact on him from this search, he just thought the search shouldnt be on his
credit file. In these circumstances, our investigator thought HSBCs offer was fair  it would
remove the search if Mr Y closed the account, but otherwise would only pay £100 in
compensation. Our investigator said that performing a hard search was a term of the
account being open, so he couldnt ask HSBC to remove it.
Mr Y said there was nothing in the terms of the account to say a hard search was required. 
He thought what was on the website, saying only a soft search would be done, was a term of 
the account, not advertising material as HSBC implied. So he thought he was only asking 
our service to require HSBC to honour its terms in the first place. Mr Y wanted his complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by setting out that I think decisions on questions like whether either a 
requirement for a hard search to be done on account opening, or the statement that 
only a soft search would be done, would constitute a term of the contract between Mr 
Y and HSBC, are more suited to a court than to the informal dispute resolution 
service that this organisation provides. 
And I dont think its helpful in this case to consider this. Even if I decided the point in 
Mr Ys favour, that wouldnt necessarily mean I would seek to enforce such a term. 
Our service has regard to the relevant law, but my core responsibility is to determine 
a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. 
In this case, I think it is clear that HSBC made a mistake in what it told Mr Y, about 
what would happen when he applied for this account. Its website told Mr Y it would 
do a soft search. It did a hard search. That was a mistake, and HSBC accepts that. 
So what I have to do is see if its done enough to put this right. 
I think there are two important points to make here. The first one is that Mr Y hasnt
suggested that he would not have opened this account anyway, if hed known that a 
hard search was going to be recorded on his credit file. And he hasnt taken up 
HSBCs offer to close the account and have the search removed, which also 
suggests he wouldve opened the account anyway. The second point is that Mr Y 
hasnt identified any detriment to him from having this search on his file. He just says 
HSBC shouldnt have done this.
So, I agree with Mr Y that HSBC has made a mistake. But I cant see that this 
mistake has had a significant impact on Mr Y. It doesnt seem to have been what 
persuaded him to open the account, and he hasnt pointed to any harm that search 
record is doing now. So I dont think HSBC has to remove the search to provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I think the compensation it has paid, 
together with its offer to close the account and remove the search, already provides a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Although I know Mr Y will be disappointed, I dont think HSBC has to do any more 
now. And that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC didnt reply. Mr Y wrote to make some further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y said that he would not have just opened this account with HSBC if hed realised a hard 
search was going to be made. He wouldve researched other currency accounts first. He 
said he might then still have opened this one. He didnt know, because he hadnt checked 
with other banks whether a more attractive offering exists. 
Mr Y said hes taken a great deal of care over his credit record. He gave an example. After 
opening this account and having the hard search recorded against his credit file, he decided 
to wait for six months before applying for a different card, although hed wanted that since 
around 2018. 
Mr Y also said Id taken the wrong approach in my decision. He drew particular attention to 
where Id said Our service has regard to the relevant law, but my core responsibility is to 
determine a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. Mr Y said that consideration of the law must form part of the consideration and calculation as 
to whats fair and reasonable. So he said that there was only one circumstance in which I 
could opt not to consider if it was part of the contract between Mr Y and HSBC that HSBC 
would only perform a soft search. And that would be the situation where, even if that point 
were determined in Mr Ys favour, it would still be unfair and/or unreasonable to enforce this 
term. Mr Y said that didnt apply here. So Mr Y considers Im obliged to reach a firm view on 
whether the contract between him and HSBC does include provisions for HSBC to perform a 
soft search only. 
Mr Y said that he had a reasonable expectation that only a soft search would be carried out, 
so its unfair that a hard search was carried out. Against that, he told us that HSBC 
sometimes requires a hard search, and sometimes doesnt, and HSBC hasnt suggested that 
enforcement of this term would be unreasonable for it. 
Mr Y also said that Id ignored data protection law, which he said had been breached. He 
said, specifically, that HSBC hadnt processed his data in a transparent manner. So he 
thought that requiring HSBC to stop processing his data by means of a hard search would 
be part of a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint. 
Mr Y said he had suffered non-negligible, unnecessary distress because of poor customer 
service, and because of improper processing of his personal information. He said hed also 
had to wait to ensure he was eligible for the financial services he wanted. So he thought that 
warranted more than £100 in compensation. 
Id like to look first at the disadvantage Mr Y said he suffered, of having to wait to apply for a 
card hed wanted for some time. I wouldnt expect a single hard search to make a significant 
difference to someones overall credit status. So, without some evidence to support this, I 
wouldnt assume that Mr Y had to wait to apply for this card.
I understand that a number of online eligibility checkers are available, to give a view on 
whether such an application is likely to be successful. There also seems to be one specific to 
the card Mr Y wanted. So I think its likely Mr Y couldve obtained a good indication as to 
whether he could successfully apply for this other card, straight after his HSBC application. 
Mr Y hasnt suggested he did that. I think that means he hasnt shown us he had to wait. 
I understand that Mr Y did choose to wait to apply for this card, but I dont think its likely that 
he had to wait. So I dont think that disadvantage was caused by HSBCs hard search.
I understand how disappointed Mr Y is that a hard search has been carried out. But his 
proposed resolution to this issue is to remove that hard search, and to replace it with a soft 
search. I think its important to note that he hasnt established that there was a better 
account option for him, and that he has accepted he may have opened this account anyway. 
HSBC has offered an alternative option. It said it would remove the hard search, and close 
the account for Mr Y. It said this may incur some charges for Mr Y, but it also paid him £100 
in compensation. 
When I wrote my provisional decision, I said I thought that this offered a fair resolution to this 
complaint. I have noted Mr Ys additional arguments, but I still think this now. Thats because 
it would put Mr Y back in the situation he was in before the application was done, and allow 
him to make a more informed choice of accounts.
And thats also why I dont think it would assist for me to decide either that Mr Ys data 
protection rights have been breached, or that HSBC had formed a contract with him based 
solely on a soft search. Thats because neither of those legal analyses would bring me to the solution that Mr Y wants, of simply requiring HSBC to remove the hard search. Even if I 
agreed with Mr Y on the legal points he makes, I would still say that what HSBC has already 
offered is enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Ive reconsidered this case carefully, and reviewed the additional information and arguments 
Mr Y has made now, and I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman