DRN-1848713
The complaint
Ms S complains about the level of service provided by Brightside Insurance Services Limited 
in administering her motor insurance policy. She wants it to waive its charges. 
What happened
Ms S changed her car and she tried to contact Brightside to change the car on cover on her 
policy, but without success. Ms S needed a car for her work, so she cancelled the direct 
debit for her policy with Brightside and took out a policy elsewhere. Brightside charged her 
cancellation fees. 
When Ms S complained, it offered to waive its cancellation charge, but it still charged her for 
her time on cover and its commission. But Ms S didnt think this was fair as she didnt think 
the cancellation was her fault. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that 
Ms S had tried to contact Brightside and she thought it should have done more to try and 
help her. She thought Ms S wouldnt have cancelled her policy if it had done so. So to 
restore Ms Ss position, she thought Brightside should waive its cancellation charge and 
commission but still charge her for her time on cover. She also thought Brightside should 
pay Ms S £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Brightside replied that Ms S could also have contacted it online through her policy portal. It 
said Ms S should pay for her time on cover and, according to its terms of business, its 
commission. It didnt think compensation was warranted. It asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms S tried to contact Brightside over two days by phone and social media, but 
without success. She also tried to access her online portal, which hadnt been activated 
previously, but this didnt work. 
Ms S said no one answered her phone calls. And Brightside has confirmed that its phone 
lines were very busy at the time. Ms S said shed managed to get through to a different 
department and was promised a call back. But Brightside said it didnt do this because it 
prioritised incoming calls. 
Ms S said shed tried to contact Brightside by social media. It said if she had, then it would 
have arranged a call back. Ms S has provided us with evidence of her social media contacts 
at the time with Brightside and I think her frustration is evident. But Brightside didnt contact 
her, and it said that incoming calls were prioritised. 
Brightside said Ms S could have used the online portal to get a quote for her new car online. 
In her social media messages, Ms S told Brightside that she wasnt able to then access this. 
I can appreciate that Ms S could have accessed the portal and resolved any issues earlier. 
But when Ms S asked for help at this particular time, none was provided. 
So I think Ms S made reasonable attempts to try and contact Brightside. Its acknowledged 
that its call volumes were high at the time. But I dont think this is Ms Ss responsibility. Ms S 
wanted to insure her new car. I dont think its reasonable to expect her to keep insuring her 
old one at the same time. She tried without success to tell Brightside about the change. So I 
think her decision to cancel her direct debit, and hence the policy was reasonable at the 
time. But I think Ms S was clear that she was happy with Brightside and would have kept her 
policy if she could.
When a business makes a mistake, as I think Brightside has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I think Brightsides level of service caused Ms S to cancel her policy when this was 
avoidable, and this led to her incurring otherwise avoidable costs. I dont think this is fair or 
reasonable. So I dont think Ms S should be responsible for Brightsides cancellation charge. 
Brightside charged Ms S its commission as the cancellation was outside the cooling off 
period. I think its reasonable for a broker to charge a reasonable level of commission to 
administer a policy. But Ms S had to pay commission for her new policy. I dont think its fair 
for her to pay brokers commission twice. Ms S wouldnt have had to take out another policy 
if Brightsides service had been better. So I think Brightside should reasonably waive this.
Ms S was provided cover by her insurer and an amount remains outstanding for this. From 
what I can see, this is £15.26. I think its fair and reasonable that Ms S pays this amount as 
the insurer was at risk until the policy cancelled.  
I think Brightsides error had an impact on Ms S. Ms S said she had to use taxis to get to 
work for two days until she took out cover elsewhere. She said she was pursued by debt 
collectors for the balance Brightside said was owing. She had the trouble of taking out cover 
elsewhere when this could have been avoided. And she was evidently caused frustration 
and spent time trying to contact Brightside. 
The investigator recommended that Brightside should pay Ms S £75 compensation for this. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar 
circumstances.
Putting things right
I think Brightside should put things right for Ms S by waiving its cancellation charge and 
commission and charging her just for her time on cover. I also think it should pay her £75 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Brightside Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman