DRN-3019763
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Society of Lloyds unfairly declined a claim under her business 
interruption insurance policy after her business was impacted by Covid-19. 
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriters.
What happened
Miss B held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. She claimed on her policy 
after her business was impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Lloyds said Miss Bs claim wasnt covered by the policy. They said the core business 
interruption cover and some policy extensions required there to have been damage to 
property and Covid-19 didnt cause damage. They said that the extension for public 
emergency didnt provide cover because Covid-19 wasnt an emergency in Miss Bs 
businesss vicinity, and although the policy included an extension for disease, Covid-19 
wasnt one of the diseases listed in the policy. 
Unhappy with the response from Lloyds, Miss B brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the terms of the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Miss Bs claim. 
Miss B asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said Covid-19 couldnt have been included 
on the list of diseases as it wasnt known about when the policy was put in place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Miss B and her business. However, Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Lloyds have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Miss Bs claim. 
Miss B doesnt seem to dispute that Covid-19 didnt cause damage to property, so Im going 
to focus my decision on the extensions for public emergency and disease. However, for 
completeness I also dont think Miss Bs claim would be covered under the core business 
interruption section or any of the extensions that require damage to property, as I havent 
seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 damaged property in this case. 
Public emergency
This extension says the policy will cover loss resulting from:
the actions or advice of a government or local authority due to an emergency 
likely to endanger life or property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents 
or hinders the use of or access to the Premises excluding
1. any incident lasting less than 12 hours
2. any period other than the actual period when access to the Premises was 
prevented
3. a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease as defined in the 
current legislation occurring at the Premises
 
When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of the law. I think the High Court 
judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case is relevant to Miss Bs 
complaint because the court considered a similar term to that in Miss Bs policy, and this part 
of the judgment wasnt appealed. 
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the 
vicinity of the insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the
government action and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be
said to be due to an emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the
neighbourhood, of the insured premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also
demonstrate that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, 
in that sense of the neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to 
the country as a whole, which led to the actions or advice of the 
government...
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the High Court. I think this extension 
was intended to provide cover for an emergency in the vicinity of Miss Bs premises. And I 
dont think the Governments response to the national pandemic was due to an emergency 
in the vicinity of Miss Bs business as opposed to the country as a whole. 
Disease
This extension covers loss as a result of:
1. an illness sustained by any person caused by food or drink poisoning 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
2. Acute Encephalitis Acute Poliomyelitis Anthrax Chickenpox Cholera 
Diptheria Dysentry Legionellosis Legionaires Disease Leprosy 
Leptospirosis Malaria Measles Meningococcal Infection Mumps Opthalmia 
Neonatorum Paratyphoid Fever Plague Rabies Rubella Scarlet Fever 
Smallpox Tetanus Tuberculosis Typhoid Fever Viral Hepatitus Whooping 
Cough or Yellow Fever at the Premises
3.  murder or suicide at the Premises
4. an accident which causes defects in the drains or other sanitary 
arrangements at the Premises
5. vermin or pests at the Premises
where use of the Premises is restricted on the advice or order of the 
competent authorityI think 2 is most relevant to Miss Bs claim, but I dont think this provides cover for her claim 
as the list of diseases covered by the policy doesnt include Covid-19. Given Covid-19 wasnt 
in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the 
list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide cover in the circumstances of 
the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a 
Government-defined list. Miss Bs policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the 
diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it 
would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy 
can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and therefore this doesnt provide 
cover for Miss Bs claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay its claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman