DRN-1958048
The complaint
Ms P complains that Santander UK Plc is pressuring her to use online and mobile banking. 
Ms P also complains that Santanders telephone banking system doesnt offer the option to 
skip information about online or mobile banking that is read out. Ms P says that her account 
was unfairly blocked and new security credentials were delayed. 
What happened
On 8 December 2019 Ms Ps account was blocked after she gave the wrong security 
responses when trying to set up a standing order. Santander arranged for new credentials to 
be sent to Ms P. Ms P complained as she felt the correct responses had been provided. 
Santander said a complaint had been raised, but Ms P wasnt subsequently called back. 
Ms P contacted Santander again on 11 December 2019 and it issued a response to her 
complaint on the same day. Santander said Ms P had failed to provide the right answers to 
security questions on 8 December 2019 and that its decision to block her account was 
correct. But Santander agreed Ms Ps request to raise a complaint hadnt been followed up. 
Santander issued another response to Ms Ps complaint on 10 January 2020 and confirmed 
its decision to block her account was correct. But Santander accepted Ms Ps request to 
raise a complaint hadnt been followed and apologised. Santander also paid Ms P £100. 
Santander sent Ms P another complaint response on 25 January 2020. Santander 
apologised that a letter it had sent her had been delayed and that Ms Ps call had lasted 30 
minutes. Santander paid Ms P £30 for the inconvenience caused. 
Ms P referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
find that Santander had treated Ms P unfairly or that the decision to block her account was 
wrong. The investigator explained that complaint handling isnt a regulated activity which 
means this service cant generally consider it. The investigator thought Santander had dealt 
with Ms Ps complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms P asked to appeal so 
her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said, our service cant normally look at complaints about complaint 
handling in its own right. Santander paid Ms P £100 having failed to correctly deal with her 
complaint after she raised it on 8 December 2019. In line with the information I recently 
asked the investigator to forward to Ms P, this decision wont deal with the complaint 
handling issues. As a result, Im not going to comment further on this point. 
Ive listened to the calls from 8 December 2019 and Im satisfied Santanders decision to 
block Ms Ps account was reasonable. Whilst I understand Ms P feels she provided the 
correct responses, Santander has confirmed she didnt. I dont doubt Ms Ps strength of 
feeling, but I think Santander would have set up the standing order if she had provided the 
correct responses when she called. As Im satisfied Ms P didnt answer the security 
questions correctly, I think Santanders decision to block her account was reasonable. 
Ms P had to visit a branch of Santander to remove the account block. I appreciate that was 
inconvenient, but after her account was locked, it was Ms Ps only option to regain access. I 
havent found that Ms P was treated unfairly when she was referred to a branch to unlock 
her account. 
Ms P feels Santander is pressurising her to move to online and mobile banking. But I havent 
seen anything to show thats the case. I understand Santander gives information about the 
other banking services it offers when customers call, but thats a step its entitled to take. 
Santander is able to offer different services to customers that use online or mobile banking, 
but that reflects the nature of how it operates. I havent seen anything to show Ms P has 
been treated unfairly by the way Santander operates or because of her decision not to use 
online or mobile banking. 
In response to the investigator, Ms P advised that Santander had notified its customers of its 
intention to close all the branches in Scotland which means she will only be able to access 
her account via online or mobile banking. But Ive looked at Santanders website and whilst it 
confirms there are branch closures affecting the whole of the UK, theres no indication of a 
decision to close all the branches in Scotland. Santanders website says it currently has 
plans to close 15 of its branches in Scotland. The branches impacted by the closures during 
2020 are all listed online. Ive check and the branches closest to Ms Ps home are not 
included in the list. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms P but I havent been persuaded that Santander has treated her 
unfairly or applied undue pressure on her to move to online and mobile banking. 
Santander has confirmed it experienced a problem sending post to customers in 
December 2019 and January 2020. I agree this caused a delay for Ms P and that, when she 
called, she was left on hold for around half an hour. Santander apologised for the delays and 
paid Ms P £30. I think Santanders apology and the £30 it paid Ms P fairly reflects the impact 
of its error. 
As I havent found that Ms P has been treated unfairly by Santander and Im satisfied it has 
dealt with her complaint in a reasonable way, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman