DRN-3235755
The complaint
Mr W complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank lent
irresponsibly when it approved his credit card application then later increased the credit limit.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
At the start of 2015 Mr W applied for an M&S Bank credit card. The product Mr W applied 
for came with 0% interest on purchases for 19 months and 0% interest on balance 
transfers for 15 months if made within the first 90 days.
Mr W said his income was around £23,000 and M&S Bank calculated a monthly take home 
figure of around £1,550. M&S Bank carried out a credit search and found Mr W owed 
around
£7,900 on unsecured debts with a further £22,000 of unused credit available. M&S Bank 
found no adverse information and saw Mr W had made all payments on time.
The application was approved with a £5,500 credit limit. Mr W mainly used the credit card 
for purchases but also completed a balance transfer.
In October 2015 M&S Bank increased the credit limit to £7,000. At this point, M&S Bank 
says it reviewed the information given in Mr Ws application as well as his credit file. M&S 
Bank says it noted Mr Ws unsecured debt had increased to around £15,500 at the point it 
increased his credit limit. M&S Bank says that Mr W managed his account well and the 
increase was in line with its lending criteria and the regulations it operates under.
Mr W complained but M&S Bank didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Mr W went on to 
refer his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought M&S 
Bank had lent irresponsibly and upheld Mr Ws complaint. M&S Bank asked to appeal and 
said it had lent in line with the regulations and its lending criteria. As M&S Bank asked to 
appeal, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different decision to the investigator concerning whether M&S Bank lent 
irresponsibly. I dont agree M&S Bank acted unfairly when it approved Mr Ws credit card. 
Ill explain why.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say M&S Bank had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr W could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable 
way. These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers 
circumstances. The nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary 
depending on various factors like:
-The amount of credit;
-The total amount repayable and the size of regular repayments;
-The duration of the agreement;
-The costs of the credit; and
-The consumers individual circumstances.
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required 
to consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate in terms 
of the checks it carries out.
In this case, M&S Bank says it took details from the application, including Mr Ws income, 
into account as well as information recorded on his credit file. Mr W has sent us a copy of 
his credit file, although I appreciate the information has moved on since he applied in early 
2015. I can see the information recorded on Mr Ws credit file appears to be in line with the 
details M&S Bank obtained. Mr W had no adverse credit or missed payments. M&S 
Banks credit search showed Mr W owed around £7,900 on other unsecured debts when 
he applied.
I dont agree that M&S Bank lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Ws credit card 
application with a credit limit of £5,500. Whilst I can see Mr W owed money elsewhere, 
M&S Bank took the cost of servicing those debts, along with other living costs, into 
account when it looked at his application. Mr Ws income appears to be in line with what 
he told M&S Bank so I think it had the necessary information available to consider his 
application.
Whilst I can see Mr W did have space on existing credit cards to increase his borrowing, I 
note he was applying for a promotional 0% interest rate for purchases and balance 
transfers. I dont agree that having space on existing credit commitments in itself means 
M&S Bank lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Ws credit card application.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I havent been persuaded that M&S Bank lent 
irresponsibly when it approved a credit card with a £5,500 credit limit.
Whilst I dont agree it was irresponsible to approve Mr Ws credit card application in 
January 2015, Im not persuaded it was reasonable to increase the credit limit further in 
October 2015 without carrying out further checks. By this point, Mr W had held his M&S 
Bank credit card for around nine months and generally made minimum payments during 
that time. Whilst Ive seen one balance transfer of £550, the majority of the increasing 
balance was made up of new spending. Between February 2015 and October 2015, when 
the credit limit was increased to £7,000, Mr Ws balance increased to around £4,900.
In addition, M&S Bank has supplied information to show it found Mr W had unsecured 
borrowing of £15,500 in October 2015, up from £7,900 earlier in the year. Its not clear 
from M&S Banks data whether that figure includes its own credit card. But, even if it 
does, I think an increase of at least £7,500 over a period of nine months indicates Mr W 
was becoming increasingly reliant on credit to make ends meet.
Taking the above into account, I think there were signs at the point M&S Bank increased 
the credit limit that showed Mr Ws borrowing was becoming unsustainable. I think this 
shouldve caused M&S Bank to carry out more comprehensive checks before increasing 
his credit limit.Ive considered the other information M&S Bank couldve asked for to demonstrate whether 
a credit limit increase was affordable. Had M&S Bank looked more closely at Mr Ws 
income and outgoings or reviewed his bank statements, for example, I think it wouldve 
seen he was using credit for everyday spending and that there was a substantial increase 
in his unsecured debt. That, in turn, led to a clear increase in the amount Mr W needed to 
pay to service his debts each month. I think better checks wouldve shown M&S Bank Mr 
Ws situation wasnt sustainable in the long term. I dont think M&S Bank wouldve 
increased Mr Ws credit limit had it carried out proportionate checks. I agree with Mr W that 
M&S Bank lent irresponsibly when it increased his credit limit in October 2015.
I note that Mr W has told us he ultimately sought financial advice and took the step of 
remortgaging to consolidate debts. This case doesnt relate to the advice Mr W obtained, 
but I can see from his credit file that his credit card debts were repaid in January 2018 as 
hes explained.
Based on the information Ive seen so far I intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. I 
understand my decision may come as a disappointment as it differs from the approach 
taken by the investigator. But I hope my explanation sets out why Ive reached a different 
view concerning how to fairly resolve Mr Ws complaint. Unless I see new information that 
changes my mind, I intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct M&S Bank to settle as 
follows:
-Refund all interest and charges applied to balances over £5,500 from October 2015
-M&S Bank should treat the interest refunds as overpayments and return them to 
Mr W along with 8% simple interest from the date they were received to the 
date of settlement
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I reached my final decision. Mr W responded to confirm he accepted 
the provisional decision. We didnt hear back from M&S Bank. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ws complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Marks & Spencer Financial Services 
trading as M&S Bank to settle as follows: 
- Refund all interest and charges applied to balances over £5,500 from October 2015
- M&S Bank should treat the interest refunds as overpayments and return them to 
Mr W along with 8% simple interest from the date they were received to the 
date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires M&S Bank to take off tax from this interest. M&S Bank
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman