DRN-4134038
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trust 
Two) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Trust Two provided Mr A with a guarantor loan for £3,500.00 in February 2020. This loan 
had an APR of 61.8% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £5,562.24, including interest, fees and charges of £2,062.24, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of just over £231.76. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint and she thought Trust Two shouldnt 
have provided Mr A with his loan. So she thought that Mr As complaint should be upheld.
Trust Two disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Trust Two needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Trust Two needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr A 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that Trust Two may also have been able 
to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Trust Two has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check before 
this loan was provided. Trust Two says that this showed no signs of financial strain or that 
there was a risk this loan would put Mr A in financial difficulty. 
However, the results of the credit check showed that Mr A had taken out payday loans, had 
made a number of other applications for credit in the lead up to this loan and was already 
using most of the available credit available to him on his revolving credit accounts. 
Furthermore, Mr A had a defaulted account within the past couple of years too. So I disagree 
that the credit check didnt show signs of Mr A being financially strained.
In my view, the information Trust Two gathered ought to have alerted it to the fact that Mr A 
was already struggling financially. And I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for Trust 
Two to ignore this information in favour of a disposable income calculation based on average 
data in circumstances where the rest of the information gathered showed Mr A fell outside 
the profile of the average borrower.  
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Mr A has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time of this loan. And while its possible  
Mr As difficulties reflected his choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my 
experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable 
or plausible arguments from Trust Two, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr As version of 
events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr As existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this guarantor loan, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown Trust Two that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr A. As 
Trust Two provided Mr A with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards him. 
Mr A ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a guarantor loan he shouldnt have 
been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr A lost out because of what Trust Two did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Trust Two needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Having thought about everything, Trust Two should put things right for Mr A by:
refunding any interest, fees and charges actually paid by Mr A
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Mr A to the date of settlement;
removing any and all adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file as a result of 
this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Trust Two to take off tax from this interest. Trust Two 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman