DRN-1971979
 
The complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc reversed a direct debit in favour of her home 
insurer when there were enough funds in her account to cover the amount of the transaction.
What happened
Miss F says she deposited £100 into her account on 2 January 2020 to cover her direct 
debits due that day. But Santander reversed a direct debit for her home insurance, and she 
incurred a £8 late payment charge fromher insurer. As she thought Santander had made a 
mistake, she complained about what had happened. 
Santander says that there were insufficient available funds in Miss Fs account when the 
direct debit payment was requested so it didnt honour the payment. Unhappy with 
Santanders response, Miss F referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things. But she didnt uphold the complaint. She 
acknowledged that Miss F statements showed she had made a payment into her account 
but that the payment wasnt received in time for the direct debit to be paid. . 
Miss F didnt agree with this, and she asked for her complaint to be looked at again. She felt 
Santander had not been fair as it doesnt state what time payments are attempted. She also 
felt the investigator had overlooked her own evidence  the statement provided showing that 
the direct debit had not been reversed before the funds were credited.
So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigators for broadly 
the same reasons  but I've provided a bitmore detail. I know Miss F will still be 
disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Each day, Miss F is required to have enough available funds in her account to cover any 
payments due. This includes all payments like debit card payments and directs debits 
including any pending transactions (more explanation about pending transactions below).
Ive looked at the transaction history on Miss Fs account from 1 to 3 January 2020. This 
shows that on the close of business on 1 January 2020 Miss F balance was £261.90 in 
credit. 
But the transaction history goes on to show that on 2 January 2020 Miss F had several 
payments being debited to her account on that day  a mix of debit card payments and direct 
debits. Santander has also provided its systems records which show that Miss F undertook two 
debit card transactions on 1 January 2020  both for £10. In this respect, I think it would be 
helpful to explain that debit card transactions do not appear on the account on the day the 
transaction is undertaken. This is explained in the terms and conditions of Miss Fs account 
under Clearance of Payments from your account. Condition 6.11 says There can be a 
delay between using your card to make a payment and the time when that payment is taken 
from your account. You must check that there are no payments pending against the balance 
in your account before you request a withdrawal or payment from your account. 
During the period in between the transaction being undertaken and when it is debited, such 
transactions are known as pending transactions. So, while they may not show up on a 
balance obtained using on-line banking on the next working day, in the background the 
banking computer system takes them into account when calculating an account holders 
available funds. Taking these two transactions into account, along with the other payments 
debited to Miss Fs account, Im satisfied the total amount of debits exceeded her available 
funds. 
I acknowledge that Miss F made a faster payment of £100 into her account on 2 January 
2020 with the intention of covering the payments due to be made. But Santander has 
provided a record of inward payments relating to Miss Fs account. Having looked at this, Im 
satisfied her payment wasnt received until 17.31 on 2 January 2020. I think it would also be 
helpful to explain to Miss F that a payment made using the faster payment system doesnt 
necessarily mean the payment will reach the beneficiary account immediately  sometimes it 
can take a few hours. Its not clear when Miss F made the faster payment, but Im satisfied 
the records show that Santander didnt receive the payment into her account until 17.31  
and this was after the attempt to collect the direct debithad been made. 
Miss F says that her statements dont show that the direct debit was taken before her 
payment was received. But Santander has explained that attempts to process direct debits 
happen twice a day  initially first thing in the morning, and a second attempt is made later in 
the day if sufficient funds werent available earlier. 
Miss F says this isnt fair as Santander doesnt explain when payments are attempted. But 
the terms and conditions of a Santander account say Condition 6.10: Automatic Payment 
Instructions, such as Direct Debits and standing orders, are usually taken from your account 
at the beginning of the working day that they are due. So, I think Santander does explain 
when payments are attempted. And that this means Miss F needed to ensure sufficient 
available funds were in her account earlier in the day.
Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied that Miss F didnt have sufficient available 
funds in her account at the time the attempt to collect the direct debit was made. So, it 
follows that Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made a mistake and I wont be asking it to 
take any further action in respect of this complaint.
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21August2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman