DRN-1275012
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1995 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing 
else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mrs F says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this over 24 years later. I say 
this because AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement for the store card. To get the 
cover Mrs F had to tick a box for it. There was a Yes box and a No box on the form. The 
Yes box is ticked. So, I think that this was something that Mrs F ought to have understood 
she could say No to. Ive noted that theres no language on any documentary evidence that 
suggests the credit is dependent on taking out PPI.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed, so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
The information AXA gave Mrs F about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time it seems that she 
was eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected 
by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mrs F would have benefitted from the cover. I say this because Mrs F 
told us that whilst she had good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly after six months, 
such that she would have had to rely on the savings she had and any support her husband 
may have been in a position to offer her. The PPI would pay out in addition to whatever sick 
pay Mrs F had and it would have reduced her reliance on any other means she may have 
been able to rely on to repay the store card in that event. And it would have provided useful 
help if Mrs F lost her job. So, I think the PPI could be useful for her.So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs F off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman