DRN-3780539
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Vitality Health Limited declined Mrs Ms claim against her 
private medical insurance plan and cancelled her cover. They also complain that they were 
misled about Mrs Ms cover and that Vitalitys communication with them was poor.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. Mr M had membership of a group, private medical insurance plan via his 
employer. Mrs M was added as a dependant at renewal on 1 May 2021. 
The plan was underwritten on a moratorium basis. That meant that Vitality didnt cover     
pre-existing medical conditions Mrs M had in the five years before her membership began on 
1 May 2021 until she has been a member for two years in a row and had a period of two 
years in a row trouble-free from that condition.  
In June 2021, Mrs M made a claim in relation to treatment for an ovarian cyst. In her  
initial claim, Mrs M indicated that her symptoms started on 9 May 2021. In the claim 
form, Mrs M said that she first noticed symptoms on 10 May 2021. Vitality gathered 
further medical information which indicated that Mrs M had symptoms from around early 
April 2021, so before she joined the plan. 
In May 2022, Vitality declined the claim and told Mrs M that she would be removed from 
cover. It relied on a provision which says that its entitled to cancel cover from the outset 
in the event that an insured provides information thats wrong or incomplete.  
Mr and Mrs M say that Vitality led them to believe that it accepted their claim as it sent 
them details of consultants, which meant that they incurred costs. They complain that the 
claims process was protracted and Vitalitys communication was poor. Mr and Mrs M say 
that there was no intention to mislead Vitality. 
In the complaint form, Mr and Mrs M indicated that they want Vitality to review its 
decisions and Mrs Ms membership of the group plan. Since bringing their complaint to 
this service, Mr Ms employer has changed provider to another insurer, so they no longer 
want Vitality to reinstate Mrs Ms membership.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Vitality had 
acted unreasonably in declining the claim and cancelling Mrs Ms membership. The 
investigator said Vitality reviewed Mrs Ms medical history which showed that she had 
symptoms before her membership began and that wasnt consistent with what Mrs M 
told Vitality. He said that the plan doesnt cover pre-existing conditions and includes a 
provision that Vitality may cancel membership in certain circumstances which are 
relevant here. The investigator thought that Vitality had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the plan. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. Mr M responded to say that there was 
no intention to be dishonest or misrepresent information. He said:
They wish to clarify the accuracy of the GP notes, as thats what led to the 
problem. The claim form was completed in an appointment with the GP in which 
she agreed that Mrs Ms symptoms started in May 2021.
On 1 April 2021, he asked his employer to include Mrs M in the cover, but she 
wasnt included until renewal in May 2021.
Vitality failed to communicate with them about their claim and complaint. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs M said but didnt change his view. He said 
that we look at the decisions Vitality made on the information it had at the time and we 
wouldnt expect Vitality to disagree with notes made by a GP. The investigator said that 
the outcome of the claim wouldnt have been different if the process to add Mrs M as a 
beneficiary started in April 2021, as the relevant date is the date cover started, so           
1 May 2021 here. He said that Vitality had handled the claim reasonably until late 
February 2022. The investigator said that there was some delay in Vitality informing   
Mrs M that it declined her claim and removed her from the plan, but he didnt think that it 
would be reasonable for Vitality to pay compensation in relation to that. 
Mr M responded in some detail, which I wont set out here. He maintains that Vitality 
delayed in communicating with them. Mr M said that based on the information Vitality 
received, it was right to decline the claim but it could have told them about that much 
sooner. Mr and Mrs M dont accept that they were intentionally dishonest. They say that 
they were not treated fairly and were misled by Vitality in July 2021. Mr and Mrs M say 
that Vitality failed to provide an acceptable standard of service in its communication with 
them.  
Mr and Mrs M asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
Mr and Mrs M now accept that Vitality acted appropriately in declining Mrs Ms claim. So, in 
this decision Im looking at Vitalitys decision to remove Mrs M from cover and its handling of 
her claim. Mr and Mrs M have also expressed concern about how Vitality handled their 
complaint. Our service can only consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant 
consider the points that Mr and Mrs M have raised about the handling of their complaint  - as 
distinct from the claim - because it isnt a regulated activity. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the plan, the relevant parts of which say  as 
follows:
4.5 Dishonesty/Fraud
We believe our customers are honest, and the contract between us is based on mutual trust. 
Representations including statements and information provided by you or any insured 
dependants are relied on in assessing the terms of cover. In the event that any of the 
information provided by you or any insured dependants is wrong or incomplete we may 
have the right to cancel cover with effect from inception and/or to decline claims made under 
the plan.
If any claim is in any respect dishonest or fraudulent or if any dishonest or fraudulent means 
or devices are used by you, any member of your household or anyone acting on your or their 
behalf to obtain benefit under your plan [] then all benefits under your plan may be lost and 
you may have to return to us any payments already made as a result of any dishonest or 
fraudulent actions. 
[]
has Vitality acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because I dont think that 
Vitality treated them unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
Vitalitys decision to remove Mrs Ms cover
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Vitality was at fault in relying on Mrs Ms 
GPs notes. Those notes indicate that in the telephone consultation on                   
4 June 2021, Mrs M said that shed had symptoms for the previous two months, so 
from approximately early April 2021. That was before she joined the plan. 
The GPs notes are inconsistent with Mrs Ms initial claim and the GPs statement 
on the claim form. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Vitality to prefer the 
GPs notes. Thats because they are contemporaneous. I think its reasonable for 
Vitality to conclude that the notes are likely to be an accurate representation of 
what Mrs M said during the consultation. 
Ive noted the alternative interpretation of the GPs notes suggested by                  
Mr and Mrs M  - that Mrs M was referring to general discomfort when she referred 
to symptoms for the previous two months. Im not persuaded by that because it 
seems more likely than not that Mrs M was referring to the symptoms she was 
worried about, not general discomfort shed expect in the usual course of events.    
I think that Vitality had reasonable grounds to conclude that when Mrs M said that 
she first had symptoms on 9/10 May 2021, that was wrong. So, I think Vitality acted 
in accordance with the term of the plan Ive set out above when it decided to cancel 
Mrs Ms cover.Its not for me to determine whether a claim is dishonest or fraudulent  thats a 
matter for the courts. Were an informal alternative to the courts; were impartial 
and were not able to call or cross examine witnesses. Our role is to consider all of 
the evidence we receive, decide whats relevant (and what isnt) to reaching a fair 
outcome, and come to a conclusion on how we think the dispute should be settled. 
Here, I think, on balance, that Vitality didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in 
cancelling Mrs Ms cover.
Vitalitys handling of the claim
Ive looked at the chronology of events. There was certainly delay in dealing with 
the claim. Mrs M made the claim in June 2021 and Vitality didnt explain its 
decision to Mrs M until May 2022. Thats considerably longer than wed expect this 
sort of decision to take. But not all of the delay was caused by Vitality. Vitality spent 
a large proportion of that time gathering medical information that was provided in a 
piecemeal way. In any event, further analysis of Vitalitys handling of the claim 
wouldnt alter the outcome here. And in the particular circumstances of this case, 
given what Ive said above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct 
Vitality to compensate Mrs M in relation to delay in handling the claim. 
I can see why Mr and Mrs M believed that Mrs Ms claim had been authorised after 
she received a list of consultants. That wasnt in fact the case. But in the particular 
circumstances here I dont think that this caused Mrs M any loss. Thats because, 
as events unfolded, Vitality wasnt obliged to deal with the claim and could have 
recouped any payments it made. So, its not appropriate in this case to direct 
Vitality to reimburse Mrs M for costs she incurred when she believed her claim had 
been authorised.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman