DRN-2905880
The complaint
Mrs M complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream acted irresponsibly 
when it gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mrs M took out three Lending Stream loans as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
instalmentsAmount*Highest repayment
109/12/2018 23/01/2019 6 £490.00 £154.73
222/01/2019 04/04/2019 6 £300.00 £260.51
311/05/2019 28/05/2019 6 £390.00 £130.44
*including combined repayments when loans overlap
Mrs M mainly said that Lending Stream had lent to her when she was vulnerable and failed 
to carry out proper affordability checks which led to spiralling debt problems and affected her 
mental health. 
When Mrs M complained to Lending Stream it said all the loans had been affordable but, 
having reviewed her complaint, it was prepared to uphold the complaint about loan 3 and it 
set out the steps it would take to put things right.
Mrs M didnt feel this offer went far enough and so she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs M and Lending Stream told us about these loans 
and he didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint. Mrs M firmly believed that Lending Stream did not carry out proper checks before 
lending and had it done so it shouldve realised that the loans shouldnt have been provided. 
The complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website and Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mrs M with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mrs M before providing it. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
I've taken carefully into account everything that Mrs M has told us, including what shes said 
in response to the adjudicators view. I am very sorry to learn about Mrs Ms financial 
difficulties and the impact this has had on her mental health. But having carefully thought 
about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I will explain 
why I say this. 
As Lending Stream has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loan 3 
and to amend Mrs Ms credit file in line with what we would expect a lender to do in these 
circumstances, I havent considered this loan further. Lending Stream has said it will do 
everything that we would tell it to do if we upheld the complaint about loan 3  so theres 
nothing further for us to do in this situation. If Mrs M hasnt yet done so and she would like to 
take up this offer (which I understand Lending Stream has confirmed is still open to her to 
accept) then she should contact Lending Stream direct to make the arrangements.
So in my decision Im just concentrating on loans 1 and 2. 
Lending Stream agreed to Mrs Ms applications after carrying out affordability checks and it 
relied on information Mrs M provided about her monthly income and expenditure and the 
results of credit checks it carried out.  
Keeping in mind everything that Mrs M and Lending Stream have said, I've looked at each 
loan in turn. 
loan 1
As this was her first loan with Lending Stream I think Lending Stream was broadly entitled to 
rely on the information Mrs M provided  although it did make some adjustments to what 
shed said based on its own independent checks. 
From what I can see, Mrs  M declared her income as £1,850. Lending Stream boosted the 
expenses figure shed provided and assumed her regular monthly expenses would be £924 
(rather than the £850 it appears Mrs M had said)  and it allowed for her spending another 
£525 on servicing existing debt. After doing this, it still looked like Mrs M should have around 
£401 disposable income  so she should have had ample disposable income left over to 
cover the cost of the repayments on this loan.
At this early stage, Mrs M didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems. Ive kept in mind what Mrs M has said about her debts generally. Its worth remembering that 
a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a lenders credit check might 
not show all the information someone could see (or expect to see) on their own credit file.
Ive seen a summary of Lending Streams credit checks for this loan. It looks like Lending 
Streams credit checks didnt show anything adverse that shouldve prompted it either to ask 
Mrs M more searching questions about her financial situation or check the information shed 
provided. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mrs Ms complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Ive taken into account that Mrs M took out loan 2 around the same time as she repaid loan 1 
- but she took out a smaller loan this time and I dont think Lending Stream wouldve had any 
reason to think that loan 2 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mrs M.
Mrs M hadnt shown any signs that shed found it hard to pay for loan 1. And the figures 
shed declared when she applied for this loan, and the information Lending Stream had 
collected, seem to support Lending Streams lending decision. The results of its credit 
checks dont appear to show anything to suggest that Mrs M was having problems managing 
her debt at that time. 
Looked at overall, I dont think there was anything in the information that Lending Stream 
had recorded for Mrs M, or anything else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve 
made Lending Stream think this loan wasnt affordable for Mrs M when she took it out. 
Based on all the information it seems Mrs M told Lending Stream and the information it 
recorded for her on each application, it wouldve looked like Mrs M had sufficient money left 
after paying her other monthly outgoings to sustainably repay the loan. So thats why Im not 
upholding Mrs Ms complaint about loan 2.
Im very sorry that Mrs M has money problems that have spiralled out of control. And 
I accept that in reality Mrs Ms financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. But, in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender acted unfairly or unreasonably. And, 
in this case, I havent seen enough to make me think that Lending Stream did anything 
wrong when it decided to lend these loans to Mrs M. 
I think that Lending Stream gave Mrs M fair opportunity to provide relevant information about 
her spending  and if she didnt tell Lending Stream that she was very worried about 
struggling financially at the time I dont think its reasonable to expect Lending Stream to 
have known this. The credit checks it carried out didnt reveal anything that shouldve 
prompted Lending Stream to probe more deeply into Mrs Ms reasons for borrowing or take 
steps to verify what she was saying. Unless she mentioned it, I cant fairly say that there was 
anything in her loan applications that shouldve alerted Lending Stream to think she might 
have been particularly vulnerable at the time or that she wasnt in a position to know if she 
was making  decisions that were right for her. 
Lending Streams lending decisions dont seem unreasonable to me looking at the 
information Lending Stream relied on when deciding whether to provide these loans  which 
I think it was entitled to do in these particular circumstances.  I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mrs M, but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. And if Mrs M would like 
help to manage her finances or to speak to someone about her situation generally, theres 
more information about how to get free debt advice and other help on our website  or we 
can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman