DRN-2145930
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs H payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2004 to cover a 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H have complained about other PPI policies, sold by Nationwide in relation to 
their mortgages. When they complained to the ombudsman service, we had to check that 
our rules allowed us to look at their complaints  this is because of time limits that apply, 
which might have meant we didnt have the jurisdiction to investigate. An adjudicator looked 
together at the complaints about three different sales of PPI, when deciding if we were able 
to look at the complaints. The adjudicator said we could look at them. 
Now that decision has been made, we are dealing with each complaint separately. This is 
because there were likely to be different circumstances for each PPI sale. And so, in my 
decision here, Im looking only at the PPI that started in 2004. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint about the 2004 PPI shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H have said that Nationwide did tell them the PPI was optional; but they say 
unfair pressure to take PPI anyway was put on them. They say they were told there would 
be a delay in approving the mortgage if they didnt tick to take PPI at the same time, 
because the PPI needed to start at the same time as the mortgage. 
I must assess things on the balance of probabilities  that is what is more likely than not to 
have happened. But the person bringing the complaint needs to present reasonable 
evidence on which I can base that decision. It would be unfair to make Nationwide prove it 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago.
And, given that this was so many years ago, I dont know how much I can fairly rely on 
Mr and Mrs Hs recollections of what was said. 
I realise it would be very difficult for Mr and Mrs H to now find extra evidence to prove what 
they are saying. But, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold in this 
way. 
As I explain below, Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have 
been mis-sold  but having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H as being particularly suited 
to their circumstances. But even if it had, I would still think it would have been a suitable 
recommendation: it would then have been up to Mr and Mrs H to decide if they wanted to 
take the PPI. 
Its well known that many (though not all) PPI policies were of questionable value for many 
people, especially when applied to certain loans and credit cards. But finding yourself unable 
to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Hs situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr H (the person covered) was eligible for the policy (meaning he was able 
to put in a claim, if needed). 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr H received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs H would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. Mr H did have a longstanding 
public sector job, with good benefits. But even so, the PPI would have put 
Mr and Mrs H in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to Mr H 
suffering long term sickness or unemployment. 
Even though I do understand that the extra saving could have been useful, Ive not 
been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr H would 
have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so I cant say that a 
recommendation would have been unsuitable. 
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
think its likely Mr and Mrs H were aware of the basic costs; and I dont anyway think its 
likely that fuller and clearer information about this would have affected whether or not they 
took the PPI. As Ive said, it would still have seemed potentially useful to them; and more 
information is unlikely to have significantly affected their assessment of whether it was worth 
the cost. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr H would have been affected by any of these. 
So, overall, I havent concluded that the PPI was mis-sold. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman