DRN-1925291
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H took out the PPI at the same time as arranging his mortgage during a branch meeting 
in 2006.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in June 2020 in which I explained why I wasnt considering 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Barclays confirmed that it had nothing more 
to add. No further comments were received from Mr H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because Barclays advised Mr H to take the PPI out 
and so it needed to ensure that it was suitable for him. But as Mr H had a pre-existing 
medical condition, and there are limitations on such conditions under the policy terms, she 
didnt think that the PPI met Mr Hs needs.
Even though I consider that the policy was probably mis-sold on that basis, I dont think that 
Barclays needs to pay Mr H any compensation.
When a policy is mis-sold, we would usually ask the business to put the consumer back in 
the position they would have been in if they hadnt taken out the PPI. So this would normally 
mean asking Barclays to give Mr H what he paid for the policy, together with some interest.
In this case, Barclays has provided evidence that Mr H made a successful claim on the 
policy in 2011 and received a pay out of £26,903.97. The amount Mr H received for the claim 
is more than he would get back if Barclays had to refund the premiums, plus interest. As Mr 
H has already had more back from the policy than it cost him, he hasnt lost out financially by 
having the PPI. So I think that Barclays has acted reasonably by not offering Mr H any 
compensation. 
As neither party provided any substantive comments following my provisional decision, I see 
no reason to depart from my original decision. It follows that I do not uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman