DRN-2234830
Complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society (NBS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy on his loan from February 1996.
Background 
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a loan in February
1996. The PPI covered Mr S if he was unable to work because of accident, sickness or
unemployment.
Mr S also took a loan in January 1996, but that was closed shortly after opening and the
premium charged for the PPI was subsequently refunded.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. But Mr S didnt agree with our
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
In my provisional decision of 30 September 2020, I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold 
the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached a final decision. NBS replied saying it had nothing further to add. 
Mr S re-iterated that he hadnt been asked about the PPI and only found out about it years 
later. He also wanted assurance that Id seen the evidence of the other means he had to 
help him repay his loan if he found himself unexpectedly out of work. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Currently, I dont think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
This policy was sold a long time ago now so understandably theres very little documentary
evidence available to help me decide this case. Where there is limited information about a
policy, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the available evidence.
NBS had to make it clear to Mr S that the policy was optional and get his consent before PPI
could be applied to the account.
NBS has sent me a sample copy of the loan agreement it was using around the time Mr S
bought his loan and PPI. In it the PPI was labelled as Optional Credit Insurance and
customers had to sign the credit agreement to take it. I think Mr Ss credit agreement is likely
to have been similar to the sample Ive seen. And from this agreement its clear the PPI is
optional.
I understand Mr S also took a further loan in 1998  and his credit agreement is largely the
same as the sample Ive seen from 1996. This loan did not include optional credit insurance.
So, I think Mr S was aware he didnt have to include PPI if he didnt want to. Had he been
mis-led prior to this, I wouldve expected him to have questioned this at this time.
Overall, I think its more likely NBS made it clear that PPI was optional, and Mr S agreed to
have it knowing he had a choice, even though he may not remember that now.
Mr S says that he was advised to take out the policy. NBS says that no advice was given. It
may be helpful to explain that businesses were able to sell PPI on either an advised (or
recommended) basis or a non-advised basis. An advised sale would usually mean that the
seller seeks out specific information about a customers personal and wider financial
circumstances to assess whether a PPI policy was suitable for that particular customer -
rather than simply suggesting that its PPI policy was a good policy to have more generally to
all of its customers. The latter would be a non-advised sale.
I havent seen anything that suggests NBS gave Mr S a tailored recommendation to take the
PPI, so I dont think NBS recommended the PPI to him. This means NBS didnt have to
check the PPI was right for him, but it did have to give him enough clear information so he
could decide if he wanted to take it.
I dont know what documents or information NBS gave Mr S at the time. As Ive said above,
there are limited documents available. So, its possible the information NBS gave Mr S about
the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Mr S was eligible for the policy and doesnt
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. For example,
he told us he was employed and didnt suffer from any medical conditions, so he wouldnt be
affected by anything in the terms about known health issues or unusual working
arrangements. This means its unlikely he would have been put off taking out the PPI if hed
had better information about the main limitations and exclusions of the policy.
Also, based on the sample credit agreement, I think its likely the cost and benefit of the
policy were clear.
Mr S says that he had good sick pay provided by his employer and an alternative insurance
policy available in 1996. So he didnt need PPI and wouldnt have agreed to it. But I have to
bear in mind that, as explained above, NBS didnt provide advice, so it didnt have to check
the policy was suitable for Mr S  it was for Mr S to decide if he wanted it, knowing he had
these other ways of making the repayments if he was unable to work.
So, having carefully considered what Ive seen so far, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
NBS has also identified that it charged two premiums after both the January and February
1996 loans were closed  both have since been refunded. So, I dont think it needs to do
anymore.
Ive reconsidered everything Mr S has said. I understand Mr S believes he wasnt asked 
about the PPI. But as Ive said above, there is very little information and evidence available 
from the time of sale. While Ive considered his testimony, based on what Ive seen, I think 
its more likely he was given a choice and agreed to take the PPI. Im afraid given what Ive 
seen, it wouldnt be fair to uphold his complaint based on his testimony alone.
I also understand Mr S feels he had enough other means available to help him meet his 
repayments that made the PPI policy unnecessary. Hes put significant effort into providing 
evidence of his other means including an alternative policy he had in place at the time.  I want to re-assure Mr S that I have seen everything he has sent in  and I believe he did 
have other means in place at the time. 
However, as explained in my provisional decision, this was a non-advised sale so NBS didnt 
have to check that the policy was suitable for Mr S  it only had to provide Mr S with clear 
information. It was then for Mr S to decide if it suited his needs bearing in mind the other 
provisions he had in place at the time. Based on the sample credit agreement Ive seen, I 
think NBS is likely to have made the costs and benefit clear. Mr S then had to decide 
whether he still wanted or needed the PPI. As NBS did what it was required to do, Im unbale 
to uphold his complaint on this basis. 
In the absence of any other points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman