DRN-4309545
The complaint
Mr L complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) delayed processing his pension switch 
request. He also says that they gave him an inaccurate pension valuation, incorrectly 
informed him of the need to take financial advice and gave him incorrect information about 
what options he had with his pension fund at retirement.
Mr L states the delays and misinformation have impacted him financially and that hed now 
like to compensated for SWLs mistakes.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr L had a telephone meeting with a representative from SWL about his 
Executive Personal Pension (EPP). The purpose of the discussion was to organise the 
payment of benefits on his plan. Mr Ls pension contained protected tax-free cash. That 
feature meant he was able to take 40% of his total pension pot tax-free rather than the usual 
25% of the fund that other pension plans allow. At the end of the meeting, Mr L had decided 
he wanted to take the full 40% and transfer the balance of his fund into a new retirement 
account with SWL. Mr L planned to use the monies he was releasing from his pension to 
reduce/offset part of his mortgage debt. The plan being that hed then be able to draw a 
flexible income in the future from the remaining fund when needed.
As Mr L hadnt heard anything back from SWL by mid October 2022, he decided to call them 
asking for an update on when he could expect to see his tax-free cash payment. The next 
day, SWL telephoned Mr L back, explaining thered been a delay. In addition, they said the 
value of his plan had fallen by around £22,000. Concerned about the decrease, Mr L asked 
SWL to pause the transfer on the basis that he would rather wait for the fund value to 
recover.
Shortly afterwards, Mr L decided to formally complain to SWL. He said he was unhappy that 
SWL had delayed transferring his pension. Mr L went on to say that the value of his pension 
had declined because of SWLs delays and that meant hed had to cancel the transfer.
Mr L later went on to explain that hed originally intended to use the pensions tax-free cash 
to repay his mortgage. And, because of SWLs delays along with the fact hed had to cancel 
the transfer, further mortgage payments had to be made to his lender. Mr L also explained 
that he felt hed missed out on investment growth in the new plan and wanted SWL to 
recompense him for both issues.
After reviewing Mr Ls concerns, SWL upheld his complaint in December 2022. In summary, 
they explained theyd incorrectly advised him his pension had decreased in value when he 
telephoned them in October 2022 and they went on to say that he shouldve been informed 
his pension is based on the value at 22 September 2022  which is when he originally asked 
SWL to switch his plan.
To say sorry for the trouble theyd caused, SWL offered Mr L £80. However, in a later 
letter to Mr L (dated 30 December 2022), SWL explained they shouldnt be held 
accountable for the additional mortgage payments Mr L had made or the investment 
growth potential that he said hed missed out on. 
SWL went on to explain that Mr Ls pension had increased in value and should he wish 
to proceed with the transfer, he would only need to run through a brief re-cap on the 
telephone with them.
In January 2023, Mr L contacted SWL asking to resume the switch. However, they explained 
that if he wanted to proceed, hed need to seek independent financial advice. Given SWL 
had stated in their October 2022 complaint resolution letter that he wouldnt need to seek 
advice, Mr L again complained to them. 
After looking into his further concern in February 2023, SWL explained that they were wrong 
to inform him that he must seek financial advice before they were prepared to arrange his 
tax-free cash withdrawal and pension switch. In that letter, SWL also highlighted they had 
provided incorrect information about his tax-free cash options in their September 2022 
discussions.
SWL explained that if Mr L were to transfer his pension as he originally intended, he wouldnt 
be able to take the enhanced tax-free cash payment of 40%, only the smaller 25% that 
applies to all other pension pots. They explained that because of the terms and conditions 
on the plan, should he want to take the enhanced tax-free cash, he would then need to 
purchase an annuity. To say sorry for misinforming him, SWL explained they were offering 
Mr L £100 for the trouble theyd caused. The £100 was in addition to the £80 SWL had 
already offered.
Mr L was unhappy with the response from SWL, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
In summary, he repeated the same concerns hed set out to SWL  that he was unhappy 
about the length of time it took SWL to sort out his tax-free cash payment, that he was given 
incorrect information about the value of his pension and that hed need to take financial 
advice. In addition, he explained that he was misinformed about the level of tax-free cash he 
could draw from his pension.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that SWL 
hadnt treated Mr L fairly. She explained, though, that had Mr L wanted to, he couldve still 
proceeded with the transfer in December 2022 but chose not to do so. Had he done, given 
his plan had grown in value by £2,000, it wouldve cancelled out the additional mortgage 
payments hed made in that period. She felt the £80 offer SWL had made in respect of that 
issue was too low and £150 would take better account of the inconvenience caused.
Our Investigator also felt that Mr L was still able to take his tax-free cash should he have 
wished to do so but hadnt. She also explained that the £100 SWL offered to Mr L for the 
second part of his complaint didnt fully recognise the inconvenience theyd caused him and 
considered £250 better reflected the misinformation and trouble SWL had brought about.
In response to our Investigators view, SWL agreed with her findings - Mr L, however, didnt. 
In summary, he said he didnt feel the decision took account of the lost investment growth he 
couldve benefited from had the transfer been completed in a timely manner. He also didnt 
believe it was reasonable to note hed not acted in a timely manner. He explained that all the 
delays and obstacles were the fault of SWL. Mr L went on to say that SWLs letter in 
February 2023 was the first hed learned of the fact he would be unable to take more than 
25% of his fund tax-free should he wish to move the remaining monies into drawdown. Referring to previous documentation from a number of years back that Mr L felt showed 
SWL had misled him, he asked the Investigator to look again at her decision. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe Mr L had 
presented any new arguments that shed not already considered or responded to. So, Mr L 
then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I reached a different outcome to that of our 
Investigator. I explained that whilst I was still planning on upholding Mr Ls complaint, I was 
doing so for different reasons. In addition, I also explained that I was planning on amending 
the redress that I believe SWL needed to pay Mr L to put things right.
For completeness, I include my provisional decision below:
My Provisional Decision
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr L and SWL in order to reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. However, I hope neither Mr L or SWL will take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as they 
have outlined, as a discourtesy.
SWL have conceded that they got a number of things wrong when dealing with Mr Ls 
retirement planning needs. So, theres no dispute that:
They didnt transfer his pension to the new plan within the 3 weeks they committed to.
They misinformed him about the transfer value of his pension  which hadnt fallen in 
value by £22,000.
He didnt need to take independent financial advice before taking the benefits from his 
plan.
Mr L couldnt take his protected tax-free cash of 40% and still transfer his pension to a 
new SWL Retirement Account.
So, it seems that as none of the key mistakes are disputed, the focus of my decision should 
be anchored around whether the steps SWL have taken to put things right for Mr L are fair 
and reasonable. Mr L doesnt believe the remedy that either SWL or our Investigator 
recommended would put him back in the position he would now be in had the mistakes not 
occurred. And, I agree. Ill explain why below.
Whilst Ive already set out the main dates in the what happened section above, the timeline 
is very important in this particular case. After SWL hadnt completed Mr Ls transfer by the 
agreed deadline, he contacted them on 13 October 2022 and complained. Having been 
advised that his pension had decreased by £22,000, its understandable that he decided to 
pause the transfer whilst he waited for his monies to recover and his complaint was being 
dealt with. SWL issued a resolution letter dated 14 December 2022 - it was at that point Mr L 
had a number of telephone conversations with an SWL representative on 14 and 19 
December 2022. In that latter conversation, Mr L says he asked whether theyd recompense 
the lost investment growth potential hed missed out on by SWL not having switched his fund 
by the agreed timescale. In addition, he also asked if theyd refund the further mortgage payments hed had to make because he couldnt repay his mortgage when he thought hed 
be able to with his tax-free cash. 
In response to his questions from 19 December 2022, SWL issued a letter to Mr L dated 30 
December 2022, which he states he didnt receive until over a week later on 9 January 2023. 
The letter explained they wouldnt cover any investment losses or the mortgage payments 
hed had to make since October onwards because of the delays. In summary, SWL said it 
wouldnt be possible to determine what investment growth hed missed out on. Some two 
weeks later, on 23 January 2023, Mr L asked SWL to recommence the switch process. Its at 
that point that he was advised of the need to seek independent financial advice before they 
could undertake his request. 
So, having received SWLs letter in mid-December 2022, he immediately contacted them to 
explore their proposed resolution and question whether theyd cover the lost investment 
growth potential. It wasnt until nearly a month later that he received SWLs response. So, I 
dont think it was unreasonable during that window for Mr L to have taken no further action 
with his pension, despite the fact he was told it had increased in value by £2,000. Thats 
because he was waiting for SWL to confirm back whether theyd compensate him for the 
mistakes theyd made. 
And then, having received a response to his further queries, he reflected on SWLs reply for 
two weeks, which I dont think is an unreasonable time frame. Despite his best efforts to 
recommence the switch at that point, SWL prevented him from doing so by stating that he 
needed to take independent financial advice.
It therefore seems to me that Mr L acted in a timely and reasonable manner throughout the 
process. 
Ive also carefully considered whether Mr L was misled about his tax-free cash options. Mr 
Ls existing SWL policy is an Executive Pension Plan. The terms of his pension state that 
when benefits are eventually taken, they have to be provided in the form of an annuity. 
Unless that is, he was to transfer those monies away to another provider before taking them. 
Unfortunately for Mr L, by transferring the fund away, it would result in the loss of his 
protected tax-free cash. Thats something Mr L wanted to avoid because, he says, he 
wanted to use the enhanced tax-free cash to offset part of his mortgage.
However, in support of his complaint, Mr L provided this service with a letter that SWL sent 
to him in January 2014. Mr L stated that the letter suggested income drawdown was an 
option on his plan. In summary, he believed that meant if income drawdown was available, 
there was no reason why SWL couldnt pay his protected tax-free cash and allow him the 
option of transferring the crystalised fund. But from what Ive read, Im not persuaded thats 
the case. The 2014 letter, in my opinion, appears to set out a number of general options at 
retirement rather than scheme specific choices that are available on Mr Ls plan. 
Ive looked at a letter SWL sent Mr L on 23 June 2015 in response to some queries that hed 
raised about the tax-free cash and plan options on 10 June 2015. Mr L has explained that 
this letter is relevant because it shows SWL advised him drawdown was available and there 
were no penalties for moving the policy to another provider, so by default that meant hed be 
able to take the full enhanced tax-free cash. However, I dont agree with Mr Ls contention 
that this demonstrates SWL have misled him, thats because a drawdown option is available 
but only on their retirement account platform (which is what SWL set up for him in 
September 2022). Furthermore, there wouldnt be any penalties should he wish to move his 
plan away. Whilst the June 2015 letter SWL issued to Mr L is technically correct, I think it 
wouldve benefited from further clarification of the points theyd made - for example, by moving to drawdown, he would lose the enhanced tax-free cash but that doesnt mean he 
was misled.
In addition, Ive also looked at the original terms and conditions that Mr L was provided with 
when he set his plan up. Unsurprisingly, Mr Ls complaint scenario isnt covered, although at 
the point the terms and conditions were written (2002), enhanced versus regular tax-free 
cash wasnt a consideration. Importantly though, what Mr L signed up for when he took the 
plan out hasnt changed. The policy would still provide him with an annuity at retirement 
should he wish. The only difference is following legislative changes, how consumers can 
take their benefits has altered  albeit Mr Ls plan hasnt changed to take account of the new 
options that are available on more modern policies, which is why hes now having to transfer 
away to access those options.
Ive thought about Mr Ls objectives and hes been consistent throughout this process  he 
wanted to access his monies flexibly to repay part of his mortgage and then transfer the rest 
of his monies into a flexible wrapper to enable him to drawdown those monies at a later date. 
So, despite not being able to extract the higher enhanced tax-free cash, I think he wouldve 
still gone ahead with the lower 25% had SWL correctly identified the limitations of his plan in 
September 2022. Thats also reflected in the actions of Mr L, who having been told in 
December 2022 he could only take the lesser amount, attempted to restart the switch 
process in January 2023 but was prevented from doing so by SWL after they insisted he 
needed to seek financial advice.
So, Ive concluded its more likely than not that had SWL correctly informed Mr L of his 
options in September 2022, he wouldve extracted the 25% tax-free cash, used those 
monies to repay/offset part of his mortgage and switched the remaining funds to a new SWL 
Retirement Account. Working to the time commitments that SWL provided Mr L with, that 
wouldve all happened by 13 October 2022.
In their correspondence with this service, SWL have explained that it would be impossible to 
determine what investment losses Mr L may have suffered because of their initial delays. I 
dont agree though. I think it is clear what Mr Ls plans were in September 2022. At that time, 
SWL provided him with a letter explaining that he wished to transfer out of his current 
arrangement and into a new SWL Retirement Account. The same letter confirmed that 100% 
of his monies (after his tax-free cash had been paid) should be invested in their SW Pension 
Portfolio A fund.
In addition, as Mr L didnt receive his tax-free cash when he originally intended, he had to 
continue making mortgage payments for a longer period than hed anticipated. Im therefore 
of the view that SWL should recompense him for those costs too. Im satisfied that Mr L 
intended to use those monies to partially repay his mortgage because, in their complaint 
resolution letter of 14 December 2022, SWL have acknowledged their understanding of this 
fact so it therefore mustve been clear to them before October 2022 (and in their September 
2022 interactions) that was always his plan.
Responses to my provisional decision
After considering my provisional decision, both Mr L and SWL explained that they accepted 
the outcome.
However, various queries were raised by both parties around the redress that I had initially 
set out. And, after discussions, a number of iterations of that redress were shared before a 
final approach was determined.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to be clear that we cant wind the clock back and fully replicate what 
should have happened in 2022. There are several ways in how the redress could be 
approached and having listened carefully to both Mr L and SWL, Im satisfied that the 
methodology below strikes the right balance between putting Mr L back as close as is 
reasonably possible to the position he wouldve been in had it not been for SWLs errors and 
acknowledging that were now working on a different timeline and that therefore there is a 
need to take account of his current circumstances at this moment in time.
Therefore, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint for the reasons Ive set out above and as such, I 
require SWL to take the following actions to put things right for him: 
Putting things right
Given the complexity of the case, I acknowledge that what Ive set out below wouldnt fully 
replicate what would have happened had the mistake not occurred but, Im satisfied it will do 
so as near as is reasonably possible without making the process too onerous. Given were a 
quick and informal dispute resolution service, I also think this approach is the fairest and 
simplest way to drawing a line under the complaint. 
SWL have explained that because Mr Ls existing pension plan is being transferred internally 
to a new SWL pension plan, theyre able to back-date the transaction as though it would 
have happened when it should have done. This will place Mr Ls pension plan back into the 
same position it would have been in had the error not occurred.
In my provisional decision, I had originally instructed SWL to pay Mr L the tax-free cash 
backdated to 13 October 2022. However, Mr L has stated the monies he used to repay his 
mortgage came from his cash ISA and therefore, to replenish those funds back into that 
account would take a number of years. As such, Im sympathetic to his concerns that if SWL 
were to pay him the tax-free cash now, the funds would become taxable in a deposit 
account. Therefore, I believe instructing SWL to leave those funds invested, allowing Mr L 
the opportunity to drawdown the monies as and when his ISA allowances permit is the 
simplest and fairest way of dealing with this point.
Therefore:
1. I require SWL to complete the pension switch of Mr Ls existing Executive Personal 
Pension to the new SWL Retirement Account Pension Portfolio A within 14 days of my 
final decision.
2. The start date of the new Retirement Account should be backdated to Mr Ls claim date 
of 22 September 2022 using the full value of Mr Ls pension from this date.
a. Before completing the switch, SWL should compare the performance of Mr Ls 
existing Executive Personal Pension at the date of the final decision with what the 
new Retirement Account Pension Portfolio A would have achieved over the same 
period. 
b. If the value of the existing Executive Personal Pension is higher than the new Retirement Account would be on the date of the final decision, SWL should 
ensure that Mr L is not disadvantaged by backdating the Retirement Account. As 
such, they should increase the value of the new Retirement Account so it 
matches the value of the existing Executive Personal Pension.
c. If the value of the new Retirement Account would be greater than the existing 
Executive Personal Pension over that period, there is a loss and Mr Ls pension 
should be compensated.
3. SWL should calculate the 25% tax-free cash Mr L wouldve been entitled to, based on 
the claim date on 22 September 2022. 
4. They should then calculate the growth it achieved in his existing Executive Personal 
Pension between 14 October 2022 and 5 March 2023.
5. SWL should establish the amount of mortgage interest Mr L paid for the period from 14 
October 2022* to 5 March 2023**. To do so, they should use the following calculation:
a. 25% tax free cash (in 3. above) x (mortgage interest rate) / 365 x (days in the 
month)
* 14 October 2022 is the date that the mortgage lender wouldve received the tax-free cash.
** 5 March 2023 is the day before Mr L used his savings to partially repay his mortgage.
6. SWL can then offset only the amount of mortgage interest paid in calculation 5 against 
the return achieved in calculation 4. 
If I didnt net off any returns Mr L achieved in calculation 4, Mr L would benefit twice 
(investment returns on his full 25% tax-free cash for the full period (from October onwards) 
and refund of mortgage interest). I think this approach is the simplest and fairest manner for 
both parties in the circumstances.
I dont think its reasonable to ask SWL to cover the interest costs on £136,000 (which is the 
enhanced tax-free cash) as Mr L had originally asked for because given he wanted to enter 
flexi-drawdown, he would never have been able to extract that amount of money (40%) from 
his plan and take that proposed course of action. 
Im therefore satisfied this approach is fair and reasonable to both parties.
Trouble and upset
Given the pattern and nature of mistakes that SWL have made, they should pay Mr L £400 
for the trouble and upset hes experienced. If SWL have already paid the £180 that they 
made reference to in their complaint resolution letters, they can deduct that from the £400 
Im awarding Mr L. That means they should pay him a further £220. 
Im of the view that the £400 takes account of the misinformation SWL provided to Mr L 
about his retirement options in September 2022, the delays he faced and the inaccurate 
claim that he needed to obtain independent financial advice. It also reflects the fact that he 
wasnt able to repay part of his mortgage with his preferred funds when he originally wished 
to do so.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Scottish Widows Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman