DRN-3107405
The complaint
Mr R complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com irresponsibly lent to 
him when he couldnt afford the loan.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr R took out a loan with Everyday for £3,500 payable over 60 months 
with a monthly repayment of £157.45. Mr R said he was already struggling to pay his credit 
commitments and day to day living costs. Mr R said Everyday hadnt done enough to check 
whether he could afford the loan. He complained to them.
Everyday said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks to determine Mr Rs 
financial position at the time of the loan. Mr R said the loan was for moving costs and on the 
evidence theyd seen the loan was affordable. Everyday calculated that at the end of each 
month Mr R would have around £700 in disposable income after hed paid all his outgoings.
Mr R wasnt happy with Everydays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Everyday had carried out proportionate and reasonable checks. 
He said he hadnt seen anything to show the loan wasnt affordable or that Everyday had 
lent irresponsibly.
Mr R didnt agree, he said Everyday hadnt checked his credit history which was poor as 
hed defaulted on a number of accounts. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr R would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Mr R required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr R. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mr R himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to
the amount, type and cost of credit being applied for.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Mr R had been thorough in the checks
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to
him.
Everyday said theyd carried out credit, employment, affordability and identity checks. They 
said Mr Rs credit file didnt show he was having any difficulty in repaying his existing 
financial commitments. It showed three relationships, all for loans in the previous few 
months. Two of which had been settled so Mr R only had one credit commitment for a 
£10,000 loan payable at £395 per month. On his application Mr R had given his salary as 
£2,750 which Everyday said theyd verified through a credit agency. He was renting his 
home address at £550 per month. His credit history only showed two searches in the 
previous 12 months , and there wasnt any evidence of any defaulted accounts or CCJs. 
Everyday used the Office for National Statistics calculation for Mr Rs living costs and 
assessed these to be £910 per month. After taking the new loan into account they said this 
would have left Mr R with around £700 in disposable income. Everyday decided that the loan 
was affordable and agreed to lend to Mr R.
As I outlined above, I need to determine whether Everyday carried out proportionate and 
reasonable checks before agreeing to the loan. Ive looked at the information that Everyday 
would have seen. From the credit history Everyday had I can only see the three loans. One 
for £6500 taken out in June 2018 which was settled in July 2018. Another for £7250 which 
was taken out in July 2018, presumably to settle the previous loan and which itself was 
settled in September 2018 when Mr R took out another loan with the same lender for 
£10,000. The credit assessment carried out by Everyday seems in line with the information 
they saw, and which would seem to show Mr R had around £700 in disposable income each 
month. Everyday said the application showed the purpose of the loan was for moving costs and 
theyd calculated that Mr R had disposable income of £700. But this makes me question the 
need for a loan of £3500 which over the time of the loan would mean Mr R would have had 
to pay back £9,447.60. I think Mr Rs credit file showed how his circumstances were evolving 
and his use of this sort of expensive credit. He already had a £10,000 loan so his level of 
indebtedness would have increased by his taking out the new loan. I dont think Everyday 
took into account Mr R was showing a pattern of increased borrowing and using each loan to 
pay off the last. And I dont think they questioned enough the plausibility of any disposable 
income amount.
As theres no evidence that Everyday asked for, or considered, further information to 
properly scrutinise and address the warning signs Ive highlighted, I find that it didnt 
complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing Mr R with 
this loan. So, I think Everyday should have looked into Mr Rs financial situation further to 
check whether the loan was sustainable or not. 
Mr R told us that he was struggling financially. We asked if he could provide his bank 
statements from around the time he applied for the loan, so I could determine what better 
checks might have shown Everyday at the time. But Mr R hasnt been able to do so. This is 
entirely understandable, given that some time has passed since he applied for the loan.
Mr R has provided evidence that supports he was struggling financially with accounts being 
placed into debt collection, late payment letters and summons for court action. Some of the 
information provided is for after the Everyday loan was agreed so I wont comment further on 
this. But there are others that happened prior to the loan being agreed. Mr R has provided us 
with his latest credit file and this information is either not showing on his credit file or in the 
case of a couple of defaulted accounts not added to his credit file until after the loan was 
agreed. So, I dont think all this information would have been seen by Everyday as the date it 
appeared on Mr Rs credit file dates post November 2018 when the loan was agreed. 
On reviewing the credit file sent to us by Mr R I can see the loans as outlined above but I 
can also see an account that went into default in June 2017 with a default balance of around 
£5,000. I dont know why this wasnt showing on the credit file Everyday looked at to assess 
Mr Rs application. 
While Mr R has shown that he was struggling financially, and I think Everyday should have 
carried out better checks before they lent to him. From the evidence Id seen, I cant say 
whether better checks, such as requesting bank statements at the time of the loan 
application, by Everyday would have shown that Mr R might have difficulty repaying his loan 
sustainably. And I cant say the evidence Mr R has given to us would have been available to 
Everyday on checking. The defaulted accounts and late payments ought to have been 
visible on Mr Rs credit file but they werent, and I cant hold Everyday responsible for 
something they wouldnt have seen. So, I cant fairly say that better checks ought reasonably 
to have led Everyday to conclude that they shouldnt lend to Mr R. 
I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But on the basis of the limited evidence 
available, I cant fairly say that Everyday lent to Mr R irresponsibly. Nor do I think that 
Everyday has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him in some other way in relation to 
this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman