DRN-3228344
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed her bank account unfairly and didnt 
consider her mental health or disability. Shed like compensation for the impact caused to 
her.
What happened
Ms H had a basic current account with Barclays. 
On 26 June 2021 Ms H had a call with Barclays. Following the call on 26 June 2021 
Barclays sent Ms H a letter notifying her that her account would be closed in two months. 
Barclays advised Ms H that their relationship with her had broken down. They explained that 
Ms H had raised too many complaints and shed acted abusively towards call handlers. 
Ms H wasnt happy with Barclays decision to close her account. She argued that the bank 
had discriminated against her in their actions for a number of reasons, including the way she 
talks. 
Ms H also argued that Barclays hadnt taken into account her reasonable adjustments when 
communicating with her, including failing to phone her prior to sending letters. And sending 
letters and emails when shed asked them not to. 
Barclays looked into Ms Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought theyd acted fairly in 
giving her 2 months notice. 
Ms H didnt accept Barclays response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Hs complaint. He contacted Barclays to ask the 
bank if theyd consider allowing Ms H to keep the account open. Barclays didnt agree, 
maintaining that their original decision was fair, but they agreed to extend the time before Ms 
Hs account was closed until the end of September 2021. And the account was eventually 
closed on 9 October 2021.
Our investigator asked Barclays more questions about their decision to close Ms Hs 
account, highlighting that it was a basic current account. And the specific regulations 
regarding the right to close a basic bank account. Barclays explained that they were entitled 
to close Ms Hs bank account because she had a basic bank account with another provider, 
Ill call Bank H.
Our investigator concluded that Barclays acted fairly in giving Ms H 2 months notice before 
closing her account. And theyd not discriminated against her in doing so. And they didnt 
need to do anything further. 
Ms H didnt accept our investigators opinion. She reiterated that Barclays had discriminated 
against her and her account with Bank H shouldnt make a difference to their decision. 
As Ms H didnt agree with our investigators outcome its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms H was going through a difficult time prior to the closure of her bank 
account. Shed repeatedly contacted Barclays to try to recover funds she felt had been taken 
from her fraudulently. But Ms H felt Barclays wouldnt listen to her. Ms H has also explained 
that she has anxiety and cant hear properly  which given her background can lead her to 
come across as a loud person. But not aggressive. 
I understand that after the closure of Ms Hs account it took her around five months to 
receive child benefit, and she had to pay a solicitor to amend child maintenance payments 
which were being paid into her Barclays account. I appreciate it was a very difficult time for 
Ms H. 
Generally a bank can close a current account by giving 2 months notice  and further 
explanation isnt required. But, Ms H had a basic bank account  therefore Barclays need to 
follow stricter regulations when making this decision. 
Barclays initially explained to Ms H that they closed her bank account because of the high 
volume of complaints and the way Ms H spoke to their members of staff. Neither of these 
reasons are sufficient to justify the closure of a basic bank account, but Ive briefly 
considered them. Ive seen evidence from Barclays that Ms H has raised a significant 
number of complaints in recent years. But I appreciate that some of these complaints  as 
Ms H has explained  resulted from what Ms H perceived as Barclays failure to recover 
payments she hadnt authorised. 
Ive thought about Ms Hs situation at the time  including the increased worry she was 
experiencing because of the disputed transactions amongst other things  her anxiety, and 
her generally loud voice. However Barclays also have a duty of care to their staff. Having 
looked at the virtual chats and phone calls Ms H had with Barclays over the 12 months prior 
to the account closure decision I can see why Barclays thought Ms H displayed 
unreasonable behaviour at times. 
Barclays have explained that their decision to close Ms Hs account was also based on Ms H 
having another bank account with Bank H. And Ive seen evidence from Bank H that this was 
the case. Ms Hs account with Bank H was opened in April 2019 prior to the Barclays 
account which means that the legislation dealing with when basic bank accounts can be 
closed wasnt technically satisfied. Ive considered what this means in terms of the fairness 
of Barclays actions. Im aware this will disappoint Ms H, but I think the legislations role is to 
ensure everyone has access to basic banking facilities. And, although Ms Hs account with 
Bank H was opened prior to Ms Hs Barclays account meaning all of the conditions in the 
legislation werent technically met, at the time of Barclays closing her account she had 
access to basic banking facilities so overall I dont think this was unfair. 
As well as meeting the relevant legislation Barclays must also follow the terms and 
conditions of the basic account. This means following the relevant notice periods. Barclays 
are entitled to close any account by providing 2 months notice. In Ms Hs case, they 
provided this notice period  and then extended it by a further 30 days. Overall, Im satisfied 
that Barclays acted within the terms and conditions when they closed Ms Hs account.
Ms H has also complained that Barclays discriminated against her because of her mental 
health and her racial background. As our investigator explained, its not our role to say 
whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we 
have to take a number of things into account including relevant law and what we consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. The relevant legislation here is the Equality Act 
2010, and Ive taken this into consideration. Having done so I think Barclays have acted 
fairly and reasonably here when closing Ms Hs account  and providing her with 2 months 
notice before doing so. 
Ive considered the communication Barclays had with Ms H  and the actions theyve taken 
when providing Ms H banking services. I can see that the banks recorded on their internal 
systems Ms Hs communication needs. The bank accept that they havent always followed 
these requests  they explain that Ms Hs requests for the type of communication shed like 
to receive havent been consistent. And its not possible for them to record on their 
complaints handling system that letters shouldnt be sent out, unless Ms H requests this 
when raising a new complaint. Its clear that Ms H has experienced distress when Barclays 
have sent her letters however I can understand a request for letters to not be sent prior to a 
phone call is difficult for the bank to implement. And Im satisfied Barclays have tried, as 
much as possible, to follow Ms Hs requests. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that Barclays 
didnt take into account that Ms H can be a naturally loud person, and that being loud and 
aggressive arent necessarily the same thing. 
I realise this will be very disappointing to Ms H and I appreciate the closure of her account 
caused her significant inconvenience. However, its my role to decide if Barclays acted fairly 
in deciding to end their relationship with Ms H. And a bank is entitled to decide whod they 
like to offer banking services to, as long as they dont discriminate against a consumer. But 
they can decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. And Im satisfied that in 
Ms Hs case Barclays exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close 
her account. 
For the reasons Ive explained above I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman