DRN-3628522
The complaint
Ms M complains about a car Arval UK Limited supplied to her under a consumer hire 
agreement. She says the car was not of satisfactory quality and is unhappy with the way 
Arval dealt with matters.
What happened
Ms M entered into a personal contract hire agreement with Arval. Under the agreement Arval 
supplied a car to Ms M over an initial four-year term. As an initial payment Ms M paid 
£1,063.12  the equivalent of three months hire.
Unfortunately, a few months after Ms M took delivery she started experiencing problems with 
the car. As a diesel-powered vehicle, the car required AdBlue to reduce exhaust emissions. 
But Ms M found the car was requiring AdBlue much more frequently than the manufacturer 
indicated. She experienced problems including an incident when the car wouldnt start while 
she was away on holiday.
Ms M took the car to a dealership several times, who in addition to repeatedly topping up the 
AdBlue identified a problem with the cars sensors and a blocked diesel particulate filter 
(DPF). Although the dealership rectified the faults without charge, Ms M continued to get 
warning messages and raised matters with Arval.
Arval responded to Ms M to say it had liaised with the dealership and concluded that the 
increased AdBlue use was down to a build-up of soot in the DPF due to low mileage. It said 
this was inherent in the design of the car rather than being a defect. Ms M wasnt happy with 
Arvals stance and asked us to review the situation. She said she hired another car with the 
same specification in January 2020 and hadnt had the same problems even though she 
used that car less.
Our investigator noted the dealerships reports and the rate at which the AdBlue top-ups 
were required. He felt Ms Ms use of the car wasnt indicative of particularly low mileage; 
shed done a little under 1,000 miles per month. According to the manufacturer, the car 
model typically uses around 1 litre per 1,000 miles. The investigator felt the rate of AdBlue 
use couldnt be explained by Arvals suggestion of low mileage, and that it hadnt provided 
sufficient technical evidence to support its position. He considered the problems were more 
likely indicative of a fault with the car, which was supplied new to Ms M. The investigator felt 
it didnt meet the satisfactory quality threshold under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The investigator noted while Ms Ms use of the car had been impaired by the problems, 
shed clearly been able to make use of it. He proposed a resolution intended to reflect the 
difficulties shed experienced as well as that impaired use. The investigator suggested Ms M 
should be entitled to terminate the hire agreement and reject the car, with a pro-rata refund 
of her initial payment as well as £250 for her distress and inconvenience.
Arval didnt agree that the car failed to meet the satisfactory quality standard. But in order to 
bring matters to a close, it said it would make the proposed credits and allow Ms M to return 
the car at no additional cost to her, subject to any applicable charges for excess mileage or 
undue wear and tear provided for under the hire agreement.
Ms M said she couldnt accept the resolution proposal as returning the car would leave her 
without the use of a suitable vehicle due to a shortage of available alternatives. She said she 
could only agree if Arval was able to provide a replacement car, but that as this wasnt 
possible she would be willing to consider compensation instead.
As the investigator was unable to resolve matters, the complaint was passed to me for 
review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out the events leading up to this complaint, 
and how I thought best to resolve it. I said:
Its not in dispute here that Ms M experienced problems with the car. And its clear 
that those problems have led to her experiencing distress and inconvenience, and 
that her use of the car has to some extent been impaired. Whats less clear is 
whether those problems arose due to an inherent fault with the vehicle, or were due 
to the way Ms M was using the car in the initial months.
In terms of satisfactory quality, the CRA effectively gives a six-month window in 
which its presumed that any faults amounting to a breach of contract were present at 
point of supply. This is a rebuttable presumption if the supplier can show the goods 
did conform to contract when supplied. Although Ms M first took the car to the dealer 
outside this six-month period, the nature of the fault described (and supported by the 
dealers records) indicates the problems had started within that time.
Its possible Arval might be able to support its position that the problems Ms M has 
experienced are consistent with a blocked DPF and the use she made of the car 
during the period in question. Against that, Ms M has pointed to the other car she 
hired that had covered lower mileage but didnt manifest such problems. The only 
way to establish this beyond question would be to obtain a specialist report 
identifying the problem and underlying cause. This would probably be needed should 
the matter progress to legal action; the current evidence isnt sufficiently persuasive 
either way.
However, I dont think in this particular situation its necessary to reach a conclusion 
on whether theres been a breach of the CRA, or the remedies that legislation might 
afford. Any right Ms M might have had to reject or require a replacement vehicle 
would also take into account use that she made of the car both up to and after she 
reported the problems. Based on what Ms M has said, that could mean a claim under 
the CRA, even if successful, might not result in a significantly different financial 
position from the one she currently finds herself in.
Further, Ms M has continued to make use of the car. Shes recently told us that shes 
covered around 30,000 miles in the vehicle since taking delivery. That might be less 
than she might have anticipated, but the term of hire includes periods during which 
the UK was subject to lockdown restrictions and this is likely to have curtailed use. 
Its not entirely clear whether she continues to experience the problems she reported 
earlier in the term, but the overall mileage suggests to me that the issue of impaired 
use might be historic rather than current.Taking all of this into account, I find Im currently leaning towards an alternative 
solution as suggested by Ms M, whereby the hire contract continues in line with the 
agreement between the parties, but that Arval makes a compensation payment to her 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience and impaired use she experienced that 
caused her to report the problems in the first place. Noting Arval has expressed a 
willingness to bring matters to a close and that Ms M has herself identified the 
problems shed face in returning the car without a suitable replacement being 
available, I think this presents a workable resolution to the dispute without the need 
for a formal finding over the cars condition at point of supply.
Im conscious our investigator proposed a partial refund of the deposit and an 
amount in respect of Ms Ms distress and inconvenience. I think it would be simpler 
all round for me to suggest that to resolve the dispute and enable the parties to move 
forward, Arval makes a one-off payment of £600 to Ms M by way of compensation.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
response to my provisional decision
Ms M accepted my proposed conclusions. Arval said it was also agreeable to paying Ms M 
£600 on the basis that this extinguishes her current claim and the proposal to reject the car. 
Arval has confirmed it will continue to support Ms M should any further faults arrive.
 
As this is essentially what I proposed in my provisional decision and reflects the approach 
Arval would be expected to take should any further problems arise with the car, Im satisfied 
that the resolution I proposed remains a fair and reasonable way to bring the dispute to an 
end.
My final decision
My final decision, therefore, is that in full and final settlement of this complaint Arval UK 
Limited pays Ms M £600. It should do so no more than 28 days after it receives her 
acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman