DRN-2371054
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr and Ms M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them PPI. The 
policy covered Mr M for accident, sickness and unemployment.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Ms Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Ms Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Ms Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Ms Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Given how long ago this sale took place, there is limited information available. For 
example, Halifax cant tell us exactly how the policy was sold. But what I can see is that 
the policy began in September 2001, around three months after Mr and Ms Ms 
mortgage began. I can also see that the mortgage application form that Mr and Ms M 
completed didnt make any reference to PPI. And, in my experience, Halifaxs usual 
process was to ask customers if they wanted to take PPI and to only add it to their 
mortgage if they had expressly agreed to it. Based on the evidence available, I havent 
seen enough to doubt that Halifax followed it usual process at the time. With all this in 
mind, I think its more likely than not that Halifax made it clear that Mr and Ms M didnt 
have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out.
Halifax have said they recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms M. Theres little evidence 
from the time of the sale, but as an advised sale places more responsibility on Halifax to 
ensure the policy was suitable, I have looked at the sale on that basis. So Halifax had to 
check that the PPI was right for Mr M, as it was him the policy covered. And the evidence 
about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr M was eligible for the cover and he had 
limited means to fall back on if he was too ill to work or became unemployed, so he had 
a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ms employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr M says he had a medical condition some time 
before the policy was taken out I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have 
recommended it. I say this because Mr M hasnt said anything to suggest that this 
medical condition caused him any ongoing issues after it was initially treated over 30 
years before the sale.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out to cover Mr M - so it looks 
like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr M as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what Mr and Ms M reasonably thought they were 
buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for Mr and Ms M if something went wrong. Because 
of this I dont think Mr and Ms M would have declined the cover had Halifax done 
anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
Mr and Ms M would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Ms M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Ms Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Ms Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Ms Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Ms Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman