DRN-2722682
The complaint
Mr Ks representative has complained, on his behalf, that he was unsuitably advised by
Insight Financial Associates Limited (Insight) to transfer a self-invested personal pension
(SIPP) for the purpose of investing in an overseas property. 
What happened
In 2010 Insight advised Mr K to transfer his existing SIPP to a new SIPP for the purpose of
making an unregulated overseas property investment. In 2018 Mr K made enquiries about
selling the investment to access funds for his retirement. He discovered it was unlikely the
property could be sold. He complained to Insight, saying that the investment was too high
risk, and unsuitable for his purposes.
Insight did not uphold the complaint. It said it was not responsible for advising on the
property investment, and that Mr K had already decided to buy it when he arranged the
SIPP. It only provided advice on a suitable SIPP to hold the investment, and said its advice
was appropriate.
When Mr K referred his complaint to this service, Insight said he had complained too late for
the purpose of our rules and that we couldnt look at it. An ombudsman decided the
complaint had been referred in time, and that we did have jurisdiction to consider it.
An investigator considered the merits and decided it should be upheld. She concluded that
Insight had an obligation to take into account the suitability of both the SIPP and the
investment Mr K planned to make.
The investigator wasnt satisfied that Insight had properly considered Mr Ks circumstances
or his attitude to risk. She couldnt see that Insight had assessed the new SIPPs charges or
explained to Mr K the benefits he was giving up in his existing SIPP.
The investigator didnt consider Insight had complied with the Financial Service Authoritys
(as it then was) regulations on pension transfers involving unregulated investments. It hadnt
pointed out the risks associated with the new SIPP investment, or explained why the transfer 
to the new SIPP was suitable for Mr K or in his best interests. With that in mind she found
Insights advice was unsuitable.
The investigator said that if Insight had given suitable advice to Mr K, it was unlikely he
wouldve transferred from his existing SIPP. She said compensation should be measured
according to the performance of that SIPP, and that Insight should pay £250 to Mr K for the
trouble and upset caused.
Mr K had moved to a different adviser in 2011, so the investigator considered Insight should
only compensate Mr K for the period during which it was his adviser.
The investigator didnt consider it was fair for Mr K to pay SIPP fees on an illiquid
investment. So she said Insight should pay half of five years fees to Mr K, based on the
previous years fees. The investigator apportioned the fees in recognition that Mr Ks adviser
had changed in 2011.
Insight didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It said, amongst other things, that:
Mr Ks profession meant he wouldve been aware of the risks associated with the
investment he was making. Hed also said he didnt want to complete a full risk
questionnaire and that he was willing to take a medium to high risk to buy the
property.
it was aware of the Financial Service Authoritys regulations, but a clients wishes
also had to be taken into account. Mr K had already decided to buy the property
when he took out the SIPP.
it considered there was a possible market for the properties and it wasnt convinced
the investment was illiquid.
it considered the compensation recommended by the investigator meant it
was covering costs and redress that should be paid by the adviser Mr K appointed in
2011.
The complaint was referred to me for review. I issued a provisional decision for the complaint 
on 25 January 2021. I said I intended to uphold the complaint, but that Id suggested redress 
that was different to the redress suggested by the investigator. Details of my provisional 
decision are set out below:
Mr K met with an agent who introduced him to the idea of investing in the overseas 
property. Mr K was then referred to Insight for advice on an appropriate SIPP to use 
to make the purchase as a pension investment.
At the time Mr K was 46, married and employed. He had a SIPP with a mainstream 
provider worth around £37,000. I wasnt aware that Mr K had any other pension 
provision in place.
Insight provided limited advice to Mr K about the SIPP he transferred to, and it 
recorded minimal information about his circumstances. The fact find it completed 
said:
You made me aware that your adviser deals with the majority of your financial
arrangements, so you only required advice on getting your money into a plan to allow 
this investment.
Insight didnt complete a full attitude to risk questionnaire for Mr K, but it recorded his 
attitude to risk as medium to high. The fact find said:
Having completed an attitude to risk questionnaire with your financial adviser, you 
confirmed that your risk was medium to high, following the discussions you had with 
him. I made you aware that the investment you had agreed to purchase was high 
risk.
Insight issued a Financial Planning Report dated 6 February 2010. The report said:You were introduced to me from [agent] with whom you have purchased a[n] 
[overseas] commercial property. You have decided to purchase and fund this through 
the recommendation of [agent] and your existing financial [sic] via a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). You have requested my advice and recommendation in 
only finding the most suitable SIPP provider that will enable you to purchase this 
property and I can confirm I have not provided you with advice or recommendation in 
relation to the SIPP being the most suitable vehicle to facilitate the property 
acquisition.
Mr Ks attitude to risk was confirmed as:
Score 7-8 Medium to High Risk
You are prepared to invest your capital in more volatile markets, with the potential for 
higher than average returns. I have made you aware that the purchase of a SIPP and 
utilising only the investment of a commercial property such as your [overseas] 
property will increase the risk level of your investment as factors such as the lack of 
liquidity of the property asset and you have only one asset class. You stated this is 
suitable to fulfil your objective of purchasing the [overseas] property and are aware of 
the associated risks involved.
the scope of Insights advice
Insight had said it was not providing advice on the investment, only the SIPP. But it 
did know the SIPPs only investment would be the overseas property Mr K had 
agreed to buy.
Insight had a duty under the relevant rules, in particular COBS 2 and COBS 9, set 
out previously by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) and now the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), to act in Mr Ks best interests, know its client and give 
suitable advice.
I didnt consider it was possible for Insight to do this without taking account of the 
SIPPs underlying investment. The only reason for the creation of the SIPP was to 
enable the overseas property investment to take place  the Insight adviser knew this 
and had made statements to that effect in his report about the advice he gave.
Insight said it was a third party agent that advised Mr K to make the property 
investment, and I agreed that the evidence suggested the agent did introduce Mr K to 
the property investment idea. 
But Insight was the regulated party that provided the SIPP advice, and it had a duty 
to assess the suitability of the investment.
I was also mindful that in January 2013, the FSA issued an alert:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. In particular, we have seen advisers moving customers retirement savings 
to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, 
often illiquid unregulated investments (some of which may be in Unregulated 
Collective Investment Schemes)The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model. An introducer 
will pass customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated 
investment (e.g. an overseas property development). When the customer expresses 
an interest in the unregulated investment, the customer is introduced to a regulated 
financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding the unregulated 
investment. The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated 
investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of holding the 
unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated financial adviser also assists the 
customer to unlock monies held in other investments so that the customer is able 
to invest in the unregulated investment
 where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas 
property investment must form part of the advice about whether the customer should 
transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the 
customer, the original pension product, including its underlying holdings, is more 
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable 
investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms, in particular financial adviser and SIPP Operators 
to report those FSA firms that are carrying on these activities in breach of the FSA 
requirements
This alert didnt make any changes to the regulations. It was not new regulation that 
had not applied previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already applied, and 
which were in place in 2010 when Insights advice was given.
The regulators comments referred directly to the situation here  where advice was 
being given about a SIPP to invest in overseas property. It said that where an adviser 
recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will invest in overseas property then 
the suitability of that investment must be taken into account.
So my view was that Insight had to take into account and advise on the specific 
suitability of the property investment as well as the overall arrangement of SIPP.
Suitability
The fact find completed for Mr K indicated that his main objective was to maintain his
standard of living in retirement. But I thought it was unlikely that Mr Ks only option to 
achieve that was to make the overseas property investment. He could have invested 
in a very wide range of investments  or remained invested in his existing SIPP.
Mr K held a modest pension fund in a SIPP with a mainstream provider, and I 
understood his existing SIPP had been open for about a year. Id seen nothing to 
suggest that Insight explained why the new SIPP was of greater benefit to Mr K than 
his existing SIPP. In particular, Insight didnt seem to have provided an analysis of 
the difference in charges between his existing SIPP and the new SIPP.
I wouldve expected Insight to point out the difference in charges to Mr K, and identify 
the benefits he was giving up from his existing SIPP. Insight shouldve also explained how the new SIPP was likely to be of greater benefit to him than his existing SIPP. I 
couldnt see that it did that.
There was nothing to suggest Mr K had specific experience of risk-based 
investments such as ISAs, shares or unit trusts. He did not have any experience of 
high risk or unregulated investments either.
It didnt seem to be disputed that Mr K approached Insight with the property 
investment in mind. But that was as a result of a promotion of that investment to him 
by the third party agent. Mr K had not arrived at this decision on his own.
The property investment was an off plan unregulated speculative overseas property
investment. It was an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). It was high 
risk and the investor faced the real possibility of losing all their money. Because it 
was unregulated Mr K did not benefit from the protection afforded by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme.
Mr Ks circumstances do not indicate that he was prepared to lose all his money in 
the pension scheme or that he could afford to do so. They also didnt indicate that he 
was suited to the risks this investment presented.
The risk grading itself, which may or may not be accurate, didnt seem to be in line 
with Mr Ks circumstances and experience. In any event, the risk grading is one part 
of an assessment of suitability and did not necessarily mean that an investment was 
suitable for Mr K.
Mr Ks investment experience was limited and did not suggest that he was an 
experienced investor who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing, or 
would not be reliant on Insight to give him suitable advice or consider his best 
interests.
As far as I was aware Mr Ks contribution to the SIPP was the only pension savings 
he had at the time. I wasnt aware of any other savings he had. The money he had 
was invested in the overseas property and that put most of his pension savings at 
high risk, or total loss.
Insight knew that Mr K was intending to invest his pension funds in overseas 
property. In my view Insight should have been aware that this investment was 
unsuitable for Mr K. It presented far too high a risk for Mr K and put his pension 
savings at risk.
From what Id seen, there was nothing to suggest Mr K was a sophisticated and 
professional type of investor, for which UCIS would be suitable. The risks of the 
investment were far higher than were suitable for him and they were of a nature that 
was not appropriate for him.
With all of that in mind, I wasnt persuaded it was appropriate for Mr K to take the 
risks of investing in the overseas property, which put his retirement income and 
benefits at considerable risk. His circumstances suggested that it was not suitable to 
take those risks with his pension benefits. It seemed he had no experience of this 
type of investment and no history of taking these kind of risks.
So my conclusions were that Insights advice to proceed with the SIPP and its 
associated investment was unsuitable.did Insight cause Mr Ks loss?
If Insight had advised Mr K that this investment was not in his best interests and 
unsuitable for him, I thought it was likely he would have taken account of that advice - 
coming from a professional regulated financial adviser. On balance, I thought it was 
likely he wouldve remained invested in his original SIPP.
I recognised that Mr K approached Insight with the investment in mind, having been
introduced to it by a third party. But I wasnt persuaded by the evidence that Mr K 
would have gone on to invest anyway, if Insight had advised against it. I noted hed 
completed a payment option form for the property, but hed told me he hadnt paid a 
reservation fee (£2,000) at the time he took the advice from Insight. So I didnt 
consider Mr K was committed to buying the property and could have chosen not to 
proceed if Insight had advised against it.
My view was that Mr K wouldnt have invested in the overseas property, so any loss
Mr K had suffered through that investment had been caused materially by Insight.
apportionment
Insight was removed as Mr Ks adviser in 2011. Id therefore given careful
thought to the chain of causation and whether it was likely that any intervening act or
omission on behalf of that later adviser might give rise to arguments of apportionment 
of any redress.
I thought the initial error lay with the introducer, but my view was that an intervening 
act on Insights behalf, ie not advising Mr K to transfer or declining to facilitate that 
transfer, would have put a stop to the transfer. I didnt think, if suitably advised,
Mr K would have proceeded with the overseas property purchase.
For there to be apportionment between Insight and the later adviser, Id need to be
satisfied that any further intervening action on behalf of that later adviser, and to 
quote case law around this type of issue, would have obliterated Insights error in 
facilitating the initial transfer. Id therefore considered what happened when Mr K met 
with the further adviser in 2011.
I could make no comments or conclusions on the suitability, or otherwise, of the 
advice given by that adviser, as that was not a complaint we had before us here, and 
that adviser had therefore been afforded no opportunity to put their case forward. I 
noted, however, that the later adviser in fact advised on a further investment in Cape 
Verde property.
So it seemed unlikely that any advice was given to Mr K at that point to withdraw 
from the initial property investment. But Id also thought about the likely outcome, 
even if it had been.
In January 2011, Mr K was less than one year into his initial property investment. He
wouldnt have seen any returns yet as the prospective construction date of the 
property was July 2011. And Mr K was aware that it wasnt until after that point that 
income was due to be generated.Mr K therefore had no reason for concern at that point about the investment, and if 
the new adviser had pointed out the high levels of risk associated with the 
investment, this would in my view have simply restated those issued by Insight. 
My conclusion, therefore, was that, given the proximity of the earlier advice from 
Insight (less than a year before), there being no obvious cause for concern, and the 
same risks being present as had previously be set out by Insight, it seemed unlikely 
that Mr K would have withdrawn from the investment at that point, even if advised to 
do so by the second adviser.
I said that for clarity, Insight should take no comfort from my comments relating to the
provision of risk warnings in February 2010. These wouldnt render otherwise 
unsuitable advice suitable. It was Insights obligation to ensure that the overall advice 
was suitable for Mr K, and for the reasons given, I didnt think it was. 
My point here was that there was no material change in the conditions surrounding 
the initial investment which would in my view have undone (or obliterated) the 
advice given by Insight less than a year previously.
Furthermore, this didnt mean my view was that, if suitably advised in February 2010, 
Mr K would in any case have proceeded. I thought the situations of not yet having 
invested in an unfamiliar type of investment, and being one year into an investment 
which exhibited no cause for concern, were quite different.
My view, therefore, was that the entirety of the loss relating to the property 
investment in 2010 flowed from the original advice given by Insight.
Mr Ks representative responded on his behalf to say that it had nothing further to add in 
response to my provisional decision.
Insight responded with some questions about the SIPP that Mr K transferred from, asking 
whether there was any difference between the original plan and the one he transferred to, 
other than the latter enabling overseas property investment. It also mentioned Mr Ks 
association with the third party introducer, saying that there was no doubt that this 
relationship with the introducer existed. It also mentioned Mr Ks profession, which it 
considered meant he would have understood the issues around the investment he was 
making.
Insight maintained that the second adviser should take some responsibility in relation to the 
investment, after Insights involvement ended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Insight has said in response to my provisional findings, but I dont consider it 
has raised anything new that would make me reconsider my overall conclusions about the 
complaint.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ks ability (or otherwise) to invest in overseas property through his 
previous SIPP is relevant. As I explained in my provisional decision, Insight had a duty, in 
line with Financial Conduct Authority (as it now is) rules, to advise him on the suitability of 
the new SIPP and the investment he was planning to make within that wrapper. Insights 
advice shouldve included an analysis of whether it was appropriate for him to remain invested in his existing SIPP, rather than transferring to a new SIPP for the purpose of 
investing in overseas commercial property. For all the reasons given in my provisional 
decision, and reiterated above, I dont think Insight gave suitable advice in that regard, as 
required by the regulator.
As Insight has pointed out, and as I acknowledged in my provisional findings, it seems a 
third party introduced Mr K to the idea of investing in the overseas property before Insight 
became involved. There is no dispute on that point. But as I also said in the provisional 
decision, the FCAs rules meant Insight had an obligation to assess whether the proposed 
investment was suitable for Mr K, despite its position that it was only providing advice about 
the SIPP wrapper. And for the reasons I explained in the provisional decision, I dont 
consider that advice was suitable.
Insight points out that Mr K held other pension investments because his second IFA dealt 
with a transfer of benefits from a different plan. I accept what it says. But the investment Mr 
K made through Insight represented about half of the combined value of his pension 
benefits. I consider that to be a significant proportion of Mr Ks pension benefits, which in 
themselves were quite modest, and so Im still not persuaded that he could afford to take the 
types of risks associated with the investment. 
Ive noted what Insight has said about Mr Ks profession, and his likely understanding of the 
investment he was making. But even if Mr K had a general understanding of the overseas 
property investment, I think its unlikely he wouldve been aware of the particular risks 
associated with investing in a UCIS such as this overseas property investment. It was also 
his pension funds which were exposed to these risks, with their specific attributes and 
susceptibility to liquidity issues, such as might be associated with the investment. Theres 
nothing about his profession which suggests to me that he would have been familiar with the 
types of issues associated with pension investments, rather than property investment 
through borrowed funds or non-pension savings. So Mr Ks professional background doesnt 
change my view that Insights advice to invest in the SIPP wasnt appropriate for him.
Insight has mentioned the involvement of the second adviser, but what its said doesnt 
change my conclusions about Insights responsibility for Mr Ks loss. I remain of the view that 
the loss stems from Insights initial advice, and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision and reiterated above. I also consider that the timing of the second advisers 
involvement, together with the overall circumstances at that time, meant that the second 
advisers actions didnt undo (or obliterate) what had already been done by Insight.
Overall, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr K fairly Insight should:
Compare the performance of the proportion of Mr K's SIPP represented by the 2010
property investment with the proportional notional value of his previous SIPP, had Mr
K remained invested in that plan.
If there is a loss, Insight should pay into Mr K's SIPP, to increase its value by
the amount of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Insight shouldnt pay the compensation into the SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Insight is unable to pay the compensation into Mr K's SIPP, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldhave provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr K's actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr K is likely to be
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr K would have been able to take a tax free
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. I have
assumed that Mr K will be a basic rate tax payer.
In addition, Insight should pay Mr K £250 for the trouble and upset caused by the
disruption to his retirement planning.
Future SIPP fees
Had Insight done what it ought to have done then Mr K wouldnt have invested in his current
SIPP. And as Ive said above, investment in illiquid holdings can have specific ramifications 
for pension funds within a SIPP. So it would not be fair if Mr K continued to have to pay 
annual SIPP fees if there are illiquid holdings preventing the SIPP from being closed.
Ideally, Insight would take over the illiquid property investment from 2010, thus allowing the
SIPP to be closed. But my understanding is that there are third parties involved and other
illiquid holdings which werent advised upon by Insight.
So, to give certainty to all parties, if there are illiquid holdings, then it is fair that Insight pay
Mr K an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of fees on a proportion of the SIPP
represented by the 2010 investment (calculated using the previous years fees). This gives a
reasonable period to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Insight Financial Associates Limited to 
pay compensation to Mr K in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman