DRN-2095144
The complaint
Mr H doesnt think that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has compensated him fairly 
for its handling of his fraud claim.
What happened
In March 2020, two fraudulent withdrawals totalling £45,000 were made from Mr Hs 
account. Halifax refunded him in full about a month later. In addition to the refund of the 
money itself, Halifax also added the associated interest which would have accrued in the 
meantime and some costs Mr H incurred. 
Whilst Mr H was happy to get his money back, he was unhappy with how Halifax had 
handled the fraud claim overall. This included how long it took for the money to be refunded, 
his belief that Halifax failed to keep him informed about what was going on and its failing to 
answer how this fraud was allowed to happen in the first place. 
In its final response, Halifax acknowledged it couldve done more to keep Mr H updated. As 
a result, it offered to pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset this caused. It also paid a 
further £28 to cover any call costs Mr H incurred whilst he was trying to chase up his claim.
Mr H was unhappy with Halifax response and brought his complaint to our service. He 
explained that this had been an extremely difficult time for him due to a family member 
passing away. He was also concerned at the time about the impact the Covid-19 pandemic 
would have on his business. Hes said that he thought he would need that money to see him 
through. So, the worry that he wouldnt get it back was very real for him. 
Mr H also still wanted to know how the fraud had taken place alongside what measures were 
being put in place to prevent something similar happening in the future. To resolve things, Mr 
H felt Halifax should offer compensation of between 15-20% of the amount which had been 
in his savings account at the time of the fraudulent activity. 
Our investigators reviewed the complaint and, in the end, felt an additional award of £300 
(bringing the total amount to £400) was fair on this occasion, to reflect the trouble and upset 
experienced by Mr H. The investigator also made Mr H aware that Halifax had confirmed it 
had added a protective marker as an additional security measure, as well as directing him to 
its website to provide him with further guidance on the steps he could take to protect himself 
in the future.
Halifax responded to the investigators recommendation to say it didnt agree. It provided the 
following points in response:
The fraud which took place happened just a few days before the UK entered a 
national lockdown. This meant Halifax had to rapidly change its operations to 
respond and adapt to the pressures posed by the pandemic.
This included having to adapt to home-working (and implementing technology to 
allow this), having reduced opening hours, changing priorities for telephone 
banking, etc.
All these factors had an impact on it being able to review Mr Hs claim  but it did 
everything it could to review the claim as quickly as it could. 
It accepts the case was handled by different colleagues  but this was also down to 
the pressures it was experiencing with Covid-19.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view either. And he felt the amount recommended 
didnt take into account the full impact this issue had on him. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint, and, like our investigator, I think that an additional 
£300 compensation is appropriate for the effect Halifax actions had on him
Im pleased to hear that Halifax refunded the money taken, as well as applying any 
associated interest for the length of time Mr H was without the money. Because of this, Im 
satisfied Mr H was put back into the position he wouldve been financially had this fraud not 
taken place. 
So, my review of the complaint has focused on Halifaxs actions leading up to the refund and 
whether any errors on its part added to the trouble and upset Mr H experienced. 
I know Mr H feels very strongly about this matter and I acknowledge what he has requested 
to resolve the complaint. But I dont believe the amount Mr H is looking for is fair or 
reasonable on this occasion. 
I can understand why Mr H thinks that waiting a month for a bank to refund fraudulent 
transactions seems like an unnecessarily long time. However, its impossible to consider the 
circumstances of this complaint without acknowledging that this all took place around the 
time of the first national lockdown.   
The pandemic has had a dreadful impact on so many people. And Im sure this was no 
different for Mr H. As a result, I can appreciate why not knowing what was going on with his 
fraud claim added to what was already a difficult time for him. And I was very sorry to hear 
about his loss as well.
But its clear the pandemic and lockdown has affected lots of financial services businesses 
too. Halifax has said that it was having to deal with staff shortages caused by the pandemic. 
There were also a lot of sudden changes to how Halifax operated (including lots of its staff 
having to suddenly work from home) which brought several challenges  especially at the 
beginning of the lockdown. As a result, its clear both things wouldve impacted Halifaxs 
ability to handle the claim in the usual timeframe it expected before the lockdown came into 
effect.
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mr H was relying on this money at the time and I note 
that the account still had funds available whilst the fraud claim was being considered. The 
remaining funds dont appear to have been used either. So, Im not persuaded theres been 
any lasting financial impact on Mr H. But that doesnt mean he wont have been concerned 
that he wouldnt get the money back. And that will have added to the stress he was 
experiencing at what was already quite a stressful time for him, having recently lost a relative 
and being impacted by the pandemic more generally.
I know Mr H was looking for assurances this wouldnt happen again. Its completely 
understandable why Mr H would want this. And I can see Halifax has tried to offer him some 
peace of mind. For example, it confirmed it would be putting more processes in place to 
keep his account secure as well as providing additional information about how he could try to 
protect himself from any future situations as well. Beyond that, Im not sure what else it could 
do here. And if something were to happen in the future, I would expect Halifax to fairly 
consider its responsibilities when it comes to any new fraudulent activity.But Mr H was clearly caused distress and inconvenience by Halifaxs actions. Whilst there 
were some exceptional circumstances as Ive just highlighted, not knowing what has 
happened to a substantial amount of money for a month wouldve been very worrying for Mr 
H. And this is something that Halifax clearly acknowledged itself when it made the offer is did
In addition to this, Ive reviewed how the fraud was perpetrated in the first place. As this is 
commercially sensitive, I cant go into detail about it in this decision. I know Mr H wants to 
know what happened. But its not unfair for banks to keep this sensitive information 
confidential to try and prevent other criminals trying similar things in the future. Halifax case 
notes do however indicate that these fraudulent transactions could perhaps have been 
prevented.
With that being the case, I think this is also relevant when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable compensation here. Ultimately, if Halifax staff had taken more care, this couldve 
prevented everything else that followed  so Mr H wouldnt have had to wait a month for the 
money to be refunded. And the stress of the fraud would have been avoided too.
Mr H has asked for a considerable sum of compensation. But thats not something that I 
think reflects the impact Halifax failings had on him. Taking everything into account, Ive 
decided that the additional £300 recommended by our investigator, on top of the £100 
already offered (a total of £400), is fair and reasonable. 
 My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) pay a further £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr H. This is in 
addition to the original offer it made to Mr H of £100, which I also require it to pay to him if it 
hasnt already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman