DRN-3616403
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
asked her to pay when she returned a car she had been leasing through an agreement with 
them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mrs A, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Ill explain why.
Mrs A acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs A responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS) but the industry guidelines for what is
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I understand that
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think its only fair to consider that standard in
tandem with the VRS when considering if the damage in the inspection reports can fairly be 
considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
Left hand front door
The inspectors photograph shows a chip to the door of about 10mm. Thats outside of the 
acceptable wear and tear standards provided by the BVRLA and the VRS that our 
investigator has already accurately set out. So, I think the charge was reasonable.
Scratched door window trim
The damage looks more like chipped paintwork than a scratch. 
The BVRLA guidance says, chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they 
are not rusted. A maximum of four chips on any panel, six chips per door edge and eight on 
any forward facing panel is permitted.
The VRS says Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base coat 
and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out is not acceptable.
There are about 12 chips in total spanning about 100mm and I think the damage is therefore 
beyond what could fairly be considered normal wear and tear. The charge is reasonable.
Insecure load area trim panel
The panel is loose and needs refitting. The investigator has set out the correct BVRLA and 
VRS standard and I think a charge is reasonable here.
The damaged alloys
The investigator has set out the correct BVRLA and VRS standards and the damage to all 
four wheels exceeds the more lenient of these standards as it exceeds 50mm over the 
circumference of the wheel. The charge is therefore reasonable.
Mrs A says the damage was present when she took receipt of the car. Shes explained that 
the car needed some repairs when it was supplied and that, in particular, the rear end was 
deformed, and a new axle was required and some realignment. But Ive not seen any 
evidence that the damage identified in the inspection photographs was present when the car 
was supplied or was the result of any potential collision. The damage in the reports spans 
several areas and doesnt appear to be related to a rear end collision.
Whilst the car was a second hand model and had already completed about 10,700 miles 
when supplied I think its reasonable to suggest, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, 
that problems such as those identified in the inspection photographs would have been 
attended to before Mrs A took receipt of the car. But, even if they werent, I think it would be 
reasonable to suggest Mrs A would have identified them very early on and asked for them to 
be attended to. Mrs A had the car for about three and a half years and drove over 27,000 
miles in the car and I think, on balance, its more likely that the damage happened in her 
tenure than in the previous owners more limited ownership.
Whilst its clear that MBFS removed some of the items they were initially claiming 
refurbishment costs for I dont think that means the ones that remain arent chargeable and, 
as I have documented above, I think the charges they are now seeking are fair. Im not 
therefore asking MBFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman