DRN-3748362
The complaint
Miss B complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) blocked, and then closed her account and 
wont return all the money held in it. 
What happened
In January 2021, Miss B attempted to make a payment from her account of around £3,000. 
Santander restricted Miss Bs account as part of a review. It asked Miss B about this 
payment, and she said it was to help a friend of a friend who desperately needed it. 
Santander also asked Miss B for information about two other payments - one shed received 
from HMRC and one from another individual. Miss B has told us the latter payment was from 
her sister. Miss B gave some information to Santander as part of its review. Miss B thinks 
this is enough for it to be satisfied of her proof of entitlement to the funds. 
But Santander did not think she had given it enough information. Santander then gave 
Miss B 30 days notice it was closing the account. Around March 2021, Miss Bs account 
was closed. Funds held in it relating to the HMRC payment, and money she says her sister 
sent her, were withheld by Santander.  
Unhappy with Santanders actions, Miss B complained. Santander upheld part of her 
complaint related to its customer service and paid Miss B compensation for this. But 
Santander said it had done nothing wrong in relation to its other actions. 
Miss B referred her complaint to this service. Before one of our Investigators looked into it, 
Santander returned around £3,300 to Miss B - this related to the HMRC payment. After 
receiving further information from Miss B, Santander was happy she was entitled to it.  
One of our Investigators then looked into Miss Bs complaint. In summary, they said: 
- Santander has legal and regulatory obligations it needs to follow, and it can suspend 
accounts whilst carrying out a review. It asked Miss B to provide evidence of 
entitlement to two payments shed received as it had concerns about them
- Miss B says that one of the payments for £2,500 was a loan repayment from her 
sister. But Miss Bs Santander statements dont show she lent money to her sister as 
she had said. So, there isnt enough information to show the sister was paying 
Miss B back £2,500, that was lent to her previously by Miss B. Nor has Miss B 
provided evidence she lent her sister this money from another of her bank accounts
- As Miss B hasnt provided enough evidence to show she was entitled to the £2,500, 
they wont be asking Santander to return the money to her
- Santander was entitled to close Miss Bs account by giving less than two months 
notice given the information and reasons it has given to this service. And it did so in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account 
Miss B did not agree with our Investigator said. She said shed given Santander her sisters 
bank statements to show proof of entitlement. Our Investigator explained Miss B had 
misunderstood what information was required  that is, evidence showing Miss B had lent 
money to her sister from one of her accounts.
Miss B reasserted she had lent her sister £5,000 and she was sure the transaction was 
made from her Santander account in 2020. 
Miss B later gave us copies of a limited companys statements  which she says is her 
company. She says this shows she transferred £7,000 to her personal account and then 
sent £5,000 to her sisters sons account. 
Our Investigator looked at this new information. They said theyre unsure why Miss B sent 
this money to someone else, despite them being a close relative, when the money was for 
the sister. 
They also said they were surprised why Miss B hadnt mentioned this before. But having 
reviewed this, and the reasons Santander have given this service, they still wont be asking it 
to return the remaining withheld funds. Our Investigator said Miss B hadnt explained if the 
funds sent were from the limited company or her own funds. 
As Miss B remained unhappy, the complaint has now been passed to me  an Ombudsman 
 to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Miss B, so Ill explain 
why. 
Banks in the UK, like Santander, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Ive carefully considered the reasons why Santander placed Miss Bs account under review, 
and placed restrictions on it. And having done that, Im satisfied Santander acted in line with 
the obligations placed on it and had concern enough to do so. 
I note Miss B wants Santander to explain why its taken these actions. Santander had asked 
Miss B for evidence to show her entitlement to the HMRC funds and that from her sister. And 
it explained when it was satisfied it had enough, or not. In any case, Im not aware of any 
obligation that compels either Santander or I to give any more information about the 
reasons. 
Santander is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Ive had a look at these terms, and Im satisfied that Santander 
acted in line with them when deciding to close the account by giving less than the standard 
two months notice. In reaching this conclusion, Im also finding that Santander had reason 
enough to do this. 
This brings me onto what now appears to be the crux of Miss Bs complaint. That is, whether 
shes provided enough information to Santander to show she is entitled to the £2,500 which Santander is still withholding. 
Ive seen the information Santander asked for, and that which Miss B gave it. And Im 
satisfied Santander acted fairly and without undue delay in its investigation here.   
Miss B says the £2,500 relates to a payment from her sister as she had previously lent her 
money. Ive checked Miss Bs statements and I dont see she lent the amount of money to 
her sister at the time she says she did. Miss B maintained this explanation to Santander, and 
to this service, until recently. 
She now says she transferred monies from a limited company account to her personal 
account, and then sent the money to her sisters son  her nephews account. Miss B has 
sent me information which shows money leaving a limited companies account to her 
personal one, and then money being set to an individual she says is her nephew. 
I do question why Miss B gave us this information so late on  and why there is such 
inconsistency in her account of what happened. Given the sums involved, Id expected to 
have seen less discrepancy. Ive also looked at the information Miss B provided to 
Santander. Having done that, Im satisfied Santander acted fairly in not returning the 
remaining funds to Miss B. Santander has said it didnt have enough evidence to satisfy itself 
Miss B was entitled to these funds - I agree. 
So, in conclusion, given the inconsistencies in Mrs Bs account of what happened, and the 
information she provided not being enough, Im persuaded Santander is doing nothing wrong 
by withholding £2,500 from her. 
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, Ive seen the customer service issues Miss B 
complained about when her account was put under review. I note Santander has paid 
Miss B compensation for this. Im satisfied the amount it has paid Miss B is fair 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman