DRN-3251501
The complaint
Mrs E complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) restricted her account and withheld some 
of the money in it - which it should either return to her or to source. Mrs E also complains 
Santander has held onto more money that it should have, and that its actions are 
discriminatory. 
Mrs E says this matter has caused her substantive distress, and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mrs E is represented by her husband, but to keep things simple I will refer to her in my 
decision. 
In late January 2021, Mrs E received two payments from two different individuals into her 
Santander account. Santander blocked Mrs Es accounts as it had concerns about them. 
Mrs E was asked to provide information to show her entitlement to these funds. 
Mrs E said she had sold her car to an individual who was known through a mutual friend. A 
sale price had been agreed, and they were to pay £5,000 as a deposit. But as the two 
payments didnt amount to £5,000, she changed her mind and decided to return the funds. 
But she couldnt do this due to Santander applying the restriction. 
Santander asked to see evidence of her owning the car, and of it being sold as she says. 
Mrs E says it took a while to get this information  but she gave enough to Santander for it to 
either release the funds to her or return them to the individuals who had sent the payments.  
Unhappy with Santanders actions, Mrs E complained. In its response, and in summary, 
Santander said: 
- If its attention is drawn to potential fraud payments on an account, it needs to act 
quickly and responsibly. And, it had no choice but to suspend Mrs Es account until 
she provided an explanation of the activity and proof of entitlement to the credits 
- Mrs E provided several documents which she believes proves her entitlement to the 
two transactions. But after a thorough investigation, Santander decided to withdraw 
her banking facilities for security reasons
- Payments totalling £4,755.85 have been taken from Mrs Es account and withheld. 
Any further payments before the account closes will need Mrs E to provided proof of 
entitlement 
- Santander has not discriminated against Mrs E. Payments into or out of her account 
have been reviewed by Santanders automated security systems which monitor 
transactions and look out for unusual payments
- As Mrs E provided wage slips, any payments from her employer into her account 
would be released to her 
Mrs E referred her complaint to this service. Amongst other things, she added that 
Santander was holding £4,755.85 instead of £4,670. So it was holding £85.85 more than it 
should. Also, Mrs E says the two parties who sent her the money for the failed car sale have 
told their respective banks to reclaim the funds. But Santander have obstructed them doing 
so. 
Mrs E is also unhappy that shes been given misleading and false information by the branch 
that the funds will be returned to the sending accounts. 
After serving Mrs E 30 days notice, Santander closed her account in March 2021. And it put 
the funds, as detailed above, into one of its holding accounts. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mrs Es complaint. In short, they found: 
- Santander has a set of procedures in place for monitoring accounts and they have 
legal and regulatory obligations to follow. Santander followed its procedures and 
moved things along as quickly as it could
- Santander didnt do anything wrong when taking the decision to review Mrs Es 
account in the way it did 
- A bank isnt generally obliged to provide an explanation for why transactions cant be 
carried out, or why funds are inaccessible. Santanders request for certain paperwork 
to show Mrs E owned and was selling a car was reasonable. As Santanders actions 
are fair, they wont be asking it to release the funds to Mrs E
- Santander have applied Claytons law  a common law presumption  correctly. And 
so, there are no further funds, other than those withheld by Santander, that it needs 
to return 
Mrs E did not agree with what our Investigator said. They reiterated that Santander hasnt 
correctly calculated the funds its withholding from the two parties shes been asked 
questions about. And shes now found the DVLA V5 document thats shows their ownership 
of the car that was being sold.
Mrs E also says Santander has wrongly said theres been fraudulent activity on the account. 
As Mrs E didnt agree, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. I know this will disappoint 
her, so Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mrs E and Santander  have 
said before reaching my decision. 
Banks in the UK, like Santander, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order 
to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having carefully considered Santanders concerns, Im satisfied its acted both fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with obligations placed on it by reviewing  and then restricting 
Mrs Es account. 
Mrs E has not complained about Santanders decision to close her account. But in any case, 
Ive reviewed Santanders account terms and conditions, and Im satisfied its acted fairly in 
closing the account in the way it has. 
In reaching this outcome, Ive considered this was a basic account. But Mrs E had told our 
Investigator she had another account she was using at the time. So Im persuaded the type 
of account had no bearing on whether Santander acted properly when deciding to close it. 
This brings me onto the crux of Mrs Es complaint. That is, Santander is unfairly withholding 
money from her  or that it should, at the very least, send this back to the parties who sent it 
to her. Mrs E also argues Santander has withheld more money that it should have. 
Our Investigator said Santander applied Claytons Law  a common law rule  correctly here 
and the funds that were being withheld were being so correctly and fairly. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mrs E has said about this, and equally given weight to 
everything Santander have given me which it says justifies its actions. I must add that 
neither Santander nor I are under any obligation, that Im aware of, to disclose this to Mrs E. 
Firstly, the funds Santander are holding are from transactions made from two separate 
parties. Mrs E has said they should be sent by Santander back to the sending accounts  
especially as this was her intention as the car sale had fallen through. So it follows Mrs E is 
not the legitimate owner of them. That in turn means this is not a loss she is eligible to 
complain about. Any financial loss is that of the parties who sent her the money, so it is 
something for them to take up with their respective banks. 
But, if I were to turn a blind eye to this, Im satisfied from the information Ive seen, that 
Santander are acting fairly and reasonably  and in in line with obligations placed on it  by 
withholding all the money. That includes the ancillary amount Mrs E contests.  
Mrs E says shes been discriminated against. Id like to assure Mrs E that Ive very carefully 
considered everything shes said about this. And I want to make clear I do not doubt how 
genuinely she feels about this matter and the upset Santanders actions have caused her. 
But Ive not seen anything which shows Santander was treating Mrs E differently because of 
a protected characteristic. And while I appreciate this is her perspective, it is not my role to 
decide whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of law  only the courts have the 
power to decide this.
Lastly, I considered if I thought Santander had caused any undue delay or failed to provide 
adequate customer service. I dont think it caused any undue delay. Its possible that the 
branch may have given Mrs E wrong information about the repatriation of the transactions. 
But I can see this was quickly corrected, if indeed it was said. So, after weighing everything up, Im satisfied Santander hasnt done anything wrong. In turn 
that means it doesnt have pay Mrs E any compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
she suffered. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman