DRN-3208364
The complaint
Miss O complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, agreed to a mortgage on a 
property which has combustible cladding. She says the surveyor instructed at the time would 
have been aware of this.
 
What happened
Miss O applied for a mortgage on a flat with Halifax in November 2014. She was issued with 
a mortgage offer in December 2014 and the mortgage completed shortly after. Around 
2019/20, Miss O says it was established her property was in a building which had 
combustible cladding. 
As part of the mortgage application a valuation was completed on the property. Miss O says 
the surveyor would have known at that time the property had combustible cladding. She 
says she should have been made aware of this, and if she had been, she wouldnt have 
purchased the property. Miss O wants Halifax to pay for any present and future costs she is 
required to pay for future repairs because of the cladding  and compensate her for the 
inconvenience of being trapped with the property until the repairs are carried out.
Halifax says the valuation carried out was a property risk assessment with the intention of 
providing it with confirmation the property was suitable security for lending purposes. It said 
the valuation was completed several years before certain types of cladding was identified to 
have safety issues and be unsuitable. Therefore, it felt it was unreasonable to expect the 
surveyor to have discovered any issues with the cladding at the time the valuation was 
carried out. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. Miss O disagreed, so it has 
been passed to me decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of any mortgage application, the lender will always require that the property be 
valued. Although a borrower will usually be expected to pay for the valuation, it is 
commissioned by and solely for the benefit of the lender. Its only purpose is to advise the 
lender whether the property is good security for the mortgage. 
A borrower can request, at an additional cost, a more detailed report or survey to be 
completed. A homebuyers report or structural survey are more detailed reports and are 
intended to advise the borrower about the property and whether it is a good purchase. They 
are reports produced to help the borrower make an informed decision about the intended 
purchase and its for the borrower to decide whether they are needed. 
Miss O didnt request a more detailed report to be carried out. The valuation carried out was 
a property risk assessment and was purely for the benefit of the lender and to advise it 
whether the property was good security and suitable for lending purposes. 
Halifax doesnt have the expertise to value a property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. Its not unreasonable for Halifax to rely upon the information provided by the 
surveyor but when employing one it must ensure it instructs a suitably qualified surveyor  a 
requirement it met by appointing a member of the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS).
Halifax are not responsible for the contents of the valuation. We can only consider 
complaints against Halifax for things it did (or didnt) do  this doesnt include the information 
the surveyor included in their valuation.
The valuation for Miss Os property was completed in November 2014. This was several 
years before the Grenfell Tower tragedy and combustible cladding wasnt known to be an 
issue at this time. It was also only after the tragedy that the government released guidance 
on checking cladding and lenders updated their lending criteria to incorporate this guidance.   
Ive seen a copy of the valuation completed for Miss Os property and it makes no reference 
to cladding or any other issues. The surveyor would have assessed the property against 
Halifaxs general lending criteria  but as I say, there wasnt at the time specific guidance on 
checking for cladding risk as part of the valuation process  and Im satisfied Halifax had no 
other way of knowing there might be a problem with the property either. 
As Ive said, this valuation was solely for the benefit of the lender and to determine whether 
the property was suitable security. Its not unreasonable for Halifax to rely on the information 
included within the valuation from a professional qualified surveyor. If Miss O wanted advice 
about whether to purchase the property, she would have needed to commission a more 
detailed report or survey. 
Halifax arent responsible for Miss Os decision to buy the property, and it wasnt responsible 
for ensuring she instructed a more detailed report if she wanted advice on the purchase. As 
to whether the surveyor owed Miss O a duty of care in the content of the valuation, thats not 
for me to decide as I have no jurisdiction over the surveyor  I can only consider a complaint 
about Halifax. 
I appreciate Miss Os concern that she may be asked to pay a substantial sum of money for 
something thats not her fault. But it wasnt Halifaxs fault either, and it wasnt its 
responsibility to advise her on whether or not to buy the property  or what defects it may or 
may not have had. I understand Miss O may feel its unfair she will have to contribute to 
rectifying the issues with the cladding, but I dont think its fair to expect Halifax to cover the 
costs either.
 My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman