DRN-3862206
The complaint
Ms E complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) set up an instant access account rather 
than a fixed rate Cash ISA leading to an estimated £400 loss of interest. She would like the   
interest added to the account. She would also like Metro Bank to review its complaint 
handling process for sake of other customers .
What happened
Ms E says she went into a Metro Bank branch in November 2016 to open a 5 fixed rate 
Cash ISA with an interest rate of 1.5%. She then returned to the branch on 19 November 
2022 to give the bank her national insurance (NI) number  this visit being prompted by 
Metro Bank writing to ask for this. She says she then got a letter dated 22 November 2022 
saying her ISA transfer had been completed. She complained to Metro Bank in 2021 when 
she realised the account had wrongly been set up as an instant access one not an ISA 
resulting in much lower interest.
Metro Bank said that the account defaulted to an instant access one as Ms E hadnt 
provided her NI number. It did agree that it hadnt returned some phone calls and to reflect 
this it offered £50 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded:-.
As Metro Bank doesnt keep records of conversations in branch , and the  individual 
who dealt with Ms E  no longer worked for Metro Bank it wasnt possible for Metro 
Bank to evidence if Ms E gave details of her NI number in branch or not. If she had I 
would have expected this to be recorded on her account details. Ms E  also told us 
she thought, but couldnt be sure, that she also sent the information back by an 
enclosed form to the bank but the bank had no record of that. Whilst mistakes can 
happen I was surprised that Metro Bank failed to receive the NI number if Ms E gave  
this twice and by two different means.
Ms E did intend to open the 5-year Fixed rate ISA but I couldnt be sure  she provided 
the NI number to do so.
Metro Bank, having no record of the NI number, were not wrong to transfer Ms E 
account to an instant access one. The product sheet information for the Cash ISA Ms 
E wanted to open stated that if no NI was provided the account would transfer to an 
instant access one.
Ms E received a letter dated 22 November 2016 from Metro Bank  stating her new 
Cash ISA was open and the account type was listed as a 5-year Fixed Term ISA 
paying 1.5% interest. I thought Ms E was entitled to believe from that letter  that the 
ISA had been opened. The letter was dated after she said she went into the branch 
and didnt make any reference to needing to provide other information such as her NI 
number.
Metro Bank evidenced that Ms E logged onto her account online from November 
2020 but only complained in 2021. It felt she could have complained sooner. I agreed 
that Ms E might have realised sooner that there was a problem. However, Metro 
Banks records only show Ms E logging on from 2020, some 4 years after she 
opened the account. If Ms E felt she ISA had been set up she would have had no 
reason to check this online particularly given the ISA was a fixed term one with no 
access to it. Having said that I  believe there is some onus on customers to keep 
track of accounts.
I was more persuaded by the statements of account that Metro Bank gave us. These 
were sent annually to Ms E and from what have seen they were correctly addressed. 
These clearly stated that Ms Es account was an instant access one not an ISA and 
they confirmed the interest paid. I think Ms E should have realised from these that 
she had an instant access and not an ISA account. Had she raised the issue sooner 
she could have looked to change her account to an ISA if she were able to do so 
under the ISA rules or to a  savings account that paid a higher rate of interest than 
her instant access one.
I couldnt be sure if Ms E provided a NI number or not. I thought Ms E intended to 
open a fixed rate Cash ISA and Metro Bank confirmed she had done so. However, I  
thought Ms E should have realised that her account wasnt an ISA account from the 
annual statements provided or from her online account. I thought it was fair that 
Metro Bank paid some compensation as I thought its letter confirming that the ISA 
had been opened was misleading.
Metro Bank accepted it didnt return phone calls which would have added to the 
inconvenience for Ms E. And in a telephone conversation Ms E was wrongly advised 
that there had been a bank error. Metro Bank offered to pay £50 to reflect this
I thought an overall compensation payment  of £200 was appropriate to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience to Ms E of  the misleading information Metro Bank 
provided and for the customer service issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank accepted my provisional decision and made no further comments for me to 
consider.
Ms E was disappointed by my provisional decision but accepted her complaint had been 
thoroughly reviewed and said she understood why her complaint had only partly been 
upheld.
However, she still believed she should get the full interest due on the account as she made a 
deal with Metro Bank to give it her money for 5 years in return for an interest rate return of 
1.5%. 
She also said there was no dispute that Metro Bank had her money for 5 years and I agree 
this isnt in dispute. She also feels the banks letter saying her transfer had been completed 
led her to believe the account had been properly opened.
I have carefully considered Ms Es points, but I dont feel she has provided any new 
information that would lead me to feel I should change my provisional decision. I agree the banks letter was misleading . But I cant be sure if Ms E did provide the NI number in order 
for the account to be opened as an ISA. And I think the annual statements she received and 
the online details on the account showed the account wasnt an ISA . So, I do believe Ms E 
could have realised sooner the account wasnt what she thought it was . Had she done so 
she could have mitigated her loss of interest.
I still feel compensation of £200 is appropriate for the distress and inconvenience of the 
misleading information in the banks letter and for the poor customer service Ms E received.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Metro Bank PLC should pay Ms E £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience of misleading information and poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman