DRN-1273104
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander didn't tell him he was no longer eligible to receive interest 
after he cancelled two direct debits on his 123 account.
 What happened
Mr C had a 123 account with Santander. He said he found out he was no longer earning 
interest on the account from when he cancelled two direct debit payments in August 2018.  
He said that he received an email in May 2019 telling him that he wasn't receiving interest. 
He said Santander should have told him this at the time, and he says it should pay him £270 
in lost interest.
He complained to Santander in June 2019. He said it told him that his statements 
included information about the interest being paid, and that it was his responsibility to make 
sure he continued to meet the minimum criteria to earn interest payments.
In August 2018 he said he had changed his electricity supplier and hadn't realised that he'd 
cancelled two direct debits. He's unhappy because he believes Santander should have told 
him at the time that he was no longer earning interest on his account.
Santander said that he was not eligible for interest after he cancelled the two direct debits as 
he was no longer meeting the minimum criteria to be eligible. It said it made him aware of 
this through his statements.
It said that he had a "self-managed account, meaning it was his sole responsibility to ensure 
he was meeting the required criteria.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She felt that Santander hadn't done anything 
wrong. She thought that Santander fairly applied the terms and conditions of the account, 
and made him aware through his statements that he was no longer receiving interest. She 
didn't think it needed to do more to let him know that he wasn't complying with the terms and 
conditions.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman decision. He said Santander was able to tell 
him in May 2019 that he wasn't receiving interest, and he thinks it would have been 
reasonable for Santander to tell him this at the time rather than wait until one year later. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll 
explain why.
Mr C had a Santander "123 account"  that paid interest as long as he met certain conditions. 
This was explained in the "Interest rates and fees" information document provided when he opened the account. This said that in order to receive interest the following conditions had to 
be met:
you need to pay a monthly account fee
you need to pay in at least £500 a month
you must have at least two direct debits set up
you must have at east £1,000 in your account
These conditions were further explained in the "Key facts document" that was issued when 
he opened the account, and when they were updated. It's clear from both documents that 
one of the conditions is the need to have at least two direct debits set up. And I'm satisfied 
that the terms of the account were available to Mr C. 
Mr C says that he cancelled two direct debits, although he thinks it was a mistake made 
when he changed his electricity supplier. I can see that when he did this he was left with 
only one direct debit coming from his account  so he was no longer eligible for interest.
The issue I have to consider is whether or not Santander did enough to make this clear to Mr 
C. I think it did. I've seen statements issued to him since August 2018. At the very top of 
each statement, highlighted in red, is a statement of the amount of interest earned on the 
account each month. Each statement clearly shows that Mr C received no interest that 
month. 
The statements also include reminders that you need to have at least two active direct debits 
to receive interest. So I'm satisfied that Santander provided him with sufficient information for 
him to be aware that he was not earning interest.
Even if he didn't know the reason why he was no longer receiving interest, I'm satisfied that it 
gave him the information he needed to query this at the time. Banks are required to provide 
customers with statements so that they can make important decisions about their finances. 
So I can't say that Santander has done anything wrong. 
I understand why Mr C is unhappy  he feels that Santander could have told him at the 
time. And he's upset that it was able to tell him in May 2019 so why couldn't it alert him to 
this in August 2018. I can see why that would have benefited Mr C, but I've already said that 
I think it had supplied him with sufficient information on his statements for him to be aware 
that he was no longer  receiving interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman