DRN-3964027
The complaint
Mr K complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV. He isnt 
happy about the way it settled a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K was involved in a minor incident as he approached a roundabout. The third party in 
front of him went to move off at the roundabout but suddenly stopped which meant he went 
into the back of her car. Mr K reported the incident to LV and the police attended at the time.
A few years later Mr K realised that the incident was affecting his premium as it had been 
marked as a fault claim. So he complained to LV as he didnt think there was any damage to 
the other drivers car or that he was at fault. LV explained that there was some damage to 
the other drivers car and that he would be held at fault for the incident. But Mr K didnt agree 
so he complained to this Service.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought LV 
had acted fairly in deciding Mr K was at fault as he hit the rear of the other car which meant 
he would most likely be held at fault for the incident. 
As Mr K didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ks frustration here as he was at the scene and believes the other driver 
was at fault and that the damage to her vehicle was minor. But, as our investigator 
explained, Mr K hit the rear of the other vehicle as he approached the roundabout and he 
notified his insurer to that affect which he was obliged to do. So, although I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr K, I dont think LV has done anything wrong. Ill explain 
why.
As Mr K is aware, it isnt the role of this service to decide liability, which is a matter for the 
courts. Although we do look to ensure insurers have acted in a fair and reasonable way. 
Under the policy terms, LV has the right to take over the settlement of the claim. This gives it 
the right to decide whether to take a third party to court or settle a claim. Legal proceedings 
are time-consuming, expensive and the outcome can be uncertain. As such, it will not 
always be commercially sensible to take legal action against a third party. 
However, this Services general approach is that insurers should act fairly and reasonably in 
deciding whether to settle or pursue a third party. We expect insurers to make a reasonable 
assessment, based on a clear understanding of the evidence and the circumstances of the 
accident. 
With this in mind Ive carefully considered how LV has handled this claim. And Im satisfied it 
carried out a reasonable investigation and took into consideration all of the available 
evidence. I say this as it isnt disputed that Mr K went into the back of the other driver 
although it seems the contact was minor and that is what he reported to LV. I know Mr K 
disputes the level of damage and suggests that the other driver was saying that they had 
whiplash. But LV has confirmed that payment was only made in relation to damage caused 
to the car. And as there was damage to Mr Ks car as well it seems likely that some damage 
was caused to the other drivers car and Mr K mentioned some possible low-level damage to 
the other car, although minor. 
Given all of this, I consider it would be very difficult for LV to fully defend Mr K in court if it 
looked to dispute the claim. I say this as it isnt disputed that there was a minor coming 
together at the roundabout and as Mr K hit the other driver he would always be held 
responsible. I know he feels that the other driver must have been distracted for some 
reason, but the onus would always be on Mr K to ensure he had enough time to react and 
stop if the vehicle in front of him stopped suddenly for any reason. And so, I judge LV acted 
fairly and reasonably in settling the third partys claim, and I do not require it to take any 
further action.
Finally, I note that Mr K has also highlighted that the other drivers footwear wasnt suitable 
for driving. But even if this was a contributing factor I dont think that would mean Mr K 
wasnt liable for the incident as he hit the back of the other car. And I wouldve expected the 
police to take action here, as they attended the scene, it they deemed it appropriate and they 
didnt. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman