DRN-3846837
The complaint
Mr W complains Bank of Scotland plcs (trading as Halifax) approach to strong customer 
authentication means that his internet account is no longer truly an internet account. He 
says that means there are times when he wont be able to use his account when he should 
be able to.
What happened
Mr W has a credit card account with Halifax with a credit limit of £12,000. He also has a 
current account with another bank who allow him to authenticate using a token.
In May 2019 Halifax wrote to Mr W to let him know that it was going to be making changes to 
the way it authenticated its customers. Halifax asked Mr W for his mobile number. Mr W 
wrote back to Halifax in June 2019 saying that he did not have, nor want, a mobile phone so 
he couldnt provide them with a number. He also asked how Halifax intended to maintain its 
internet banking service. In his letter he said why he didnt think its internet banking service 
would provide an adequate service if it relied on customers having a mobile phone or 
receiving SMS messages. He also suggested ways Halifax could maintain its internet 
banking service, including taking advantage of card readers and existing card technology. 
He has a background in telecommunications.
In November 2020 Mr W wrote to Halifax to complain that hed had to use a one-time 
passcode sent to his landline in order to access his account online. He said that he had an 
internet based account because he needs to be able to use it all over the world, particularly 
when he travels. And that having to rely on his landline meant his account was no longer an 
internet based account. He said that the consequences of him not be able to access his 
account could be catastrophic.
Halifax investigated Mr Ws complaint and said that it provided a number of alternatives, 
including sending one-time passcodes to a landline, taking advantage of trusted device 
technology and its mobile banking app. In short, Halifax thought it had done enough. Mr W 
disagreed saying that these solutions wouldnt work if he was, for example, travelling as they 
all relied on a phone or the customer not clearing cookies. He ultimately complained to our 
service. He told us that it is simply impossible to travel in the modern world without a reliable 
credit card to conduct internet transactions and being able access your account. He said for 
example that many bookings and payments now can only be made online.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that 
they thought Halifax had provided viable alternatives to a mobile phone. Mr W disagreed, 
saying that unless and until Halifax provided an alternative that worked when its customers 
had internet access only then there would be times when he wouldnt be able to use his 
online banking or make online payments. For example, when travelling abroad. So, I was 
asked to consider his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked into this complaint, I issued a provisional decision. In my provisional decision I 
said the following:
Halifax told Mr W that it was making changes to its online banking and the way its 
website worked. Halifax told Mr W that these changes were as a result of new regulations 
that were going to come into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking 
sector.
Halifax is right that new regulations making changes to the way businesses authenticate 
came into effect in September 2019  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). 
Halifax is also right that these regulations affected the whole banking sector. The 
regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer 
authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 
of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a payment 
service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement 
strong customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes 
card issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop 
firms bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in 
that the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other 
element, and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the 
authentication data, with the elements falling into two or more of the following 
categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is 
permitted to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors 
based on knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two 
independent factors when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but they can check using one or more knowledge based 
factors and one or more possession based factors. The way Halifax has gone about 
those checks  and none of the alternatives it offers being location and technology 
agnostic according to Mr W  is at the heart of this complaint.
Halifax approach to implementing strong customer authentication  in 2020
Halifax explained to Mr W in its final response in December 2020 that it would be making 
changes to how customers logged into its website as a result of new regulations. Halifax 
told Mr W that it would be using two factor authentication and that this was a way that 
customers could identify themselves using two out of three different types of identification:
something you know (password / memorable information);
something you have (a device you own e.g. mobile phone or laptop);
something you are (biometrics like fingerprint or face scanning).
Halifax told Mr W that there were three options to choose from, namely:
he could label a device he owned as trusted and Halifax would recognise this as his 
usual internet device. Halifax explained that this setting would be stored as a cookie 
on his device, so it was important it didnt get deleted. Hed log on with his user ID, 
password and memorable information as normal;
Halifax could send a code to his mobile phone which he could enter along with his 
user ID, password and memorable information;
Halifax could phone his landline and would give him a code number on screen that 
would need to be keyed into his telephone handset.
In other words, Halifax told Mr W that hed soon have to pass a knowledge based check 
(his password and memorable information) and a possession check (either using a 
trusted device or receiving a code on his mobile phone or his landline and keying it in). 
Halifaxs approach has developed since 2020  thats true of many businesses  and Ive 
said more about this later on.
Why did Mr W complain?
Mr W has told us that he has a number of internet accounts. Hes also told us that he 
opened these accounts because its important to him that hes able to manage his 
finances over the internet  that, according to Mr W, is what an internet account should 
by definition allow you to do. Hes given us lots of reasons why people generally, 
including himself, like to open internet accounts. For example, the convenience of being 
able to manage your finances online compared to the inconvenience of having to call your 
bank or visit a branch (particularly during Covid and in light too of the number of branches 
that have closed over the past few years and continue to close).
Mr W has told us that during his career hes worked in a number of different countries, 
often for months at a time, and that being able to manage his finances when hes away 
was important too. Hes told us that hes now looking forward to retirement, and that 
having saved up during his life, hes now looking forward to spending the money that hes 
put to one side. Hes told us that he has plans, for example, to be away for six to twelve 
months travelling around New Zealand and Australia. And that it will be important that 
hes able to manage his finances when hes abroad for that long period of time, and other trips he has planned.
Mr W has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone, and hes explained why even if he 
did it wouldnt help him manage his finances. He makes a lot of good points. Hes also 
told us that he owns a computer  this is the device he uses when hes at home  and 
that the computer he owns at the moment is a laptop.
Its clear from what Mr W has told us that his main complaint about Halifaxs approach to 
strong customer authentication is that it simply doesnt allow him to manage his finances 
when hes travelling. Hes able to access his online banking when hes at home, as he 
has a landline to which codes can be sent, but as he rightly points out this only works 
when hes at home and not whenever he has access to the internet. In the circumstances, 
I can see why Mr W says that his internet account is no longer operating like an internet 
account because of the way Halifax has approached strong customer authentication.
Mr W isnt complaining about Halifaxs decision to introduce strong customer 
authentication, which is an important measure designed to combat fraud, and one that 
PSPs are obliged to implement. And hes not complaining about having to complete 
additional checks either. Hes agrees that strong customer authentication is an important 
measure designed to combat fraud. Im satisfied that the only reason why Mr W 
complained was because he didnt feel Halifax had offered a method of authenticating 
that would allow him to continue to operate his account as an internet account. He 
wouldnt have complained had Halifax, for example, offered him the option of 
authenticating using a card reader or a token. Ill come back to this later as I know a 
number of businesses have recently introduced card readers and tokens and Id like to 
know if Halifax has done so too or plans to do so.
Halifaxs approach to strong customer authentication - now
Halifaxs approach to strong customer authentication has developed since Mr W originally 
complained in November 2020. Halifax, like many other businesses, has, for example, 
now extended strong customer authentication to online shopping. That means that when 
one of its customers, for example, puts their credit card or debit card into a website in 
order to make an online purchase, Halifax will sometimes check that the person who has 
done that is their customer using strong customer authentication. Halifax also now offers 
the option of its customers authenticating using its mobile banking app. That means 
customers can, for example, authenticate using their fingerprint or their face, amongst 
other things. In other words, Halifax now offers the option to its customers of 
authenticating using the inherence factor. Its important to say that Halifaxs mobile 
banking app isnt an app that can only be downloaded onto a mobile phone. It can be 
downloaded onto any mobile device  including potentially a tablet and / or a laptop.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our 
Approach  the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-
money related rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a 
practical understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how 
businesses will experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is 
intended to illustrate ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the 
relevant regulations and rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas 
without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly 
authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also 
made it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a 
mobile phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has 
talked, for example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer 
authentication on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less 
digitally engaged or located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also 
talked about the need for firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that 
work for all groups of consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide 
several different authentication methods for your customers.
Should Halifax have done more for Mr W when he originally complained?
Mr W has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone. So Ive taken the papers the FCA 
has published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation 
to people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not 
Halifax should have done more when Mr W originally complained and whether or not its 
actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the 
Payment Services Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA 
Principle 6  that firms must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Halifax 
to implement strong customer authentication  its an important measure to help combat 
fraud. Im very confident Mr W doesnt think so either. Nor do I think it was unfair or 
unreasonable of Halifax to decide that it was going to rely on knowledge and 
possession when authenticating its customers (its since offered inherence). I do, 
however, agree with Mr W that Halifax needed to provide its customers with an alternative 
to a mobile phone in order to prove possession. Halifax offered two alternatives at the 
time, namely asking its customers to key a code that would be displayed on screen into 
their landline when Halifax called and allowing its customers to trust a device they own.
I dont think Mr W can say that Halifax hasnt offered him a viable alternative for when 
hes at home because one of the alternatives it offers is authenticating using a landline  
and Mr W has a landline at home which hes able to use. I accept that this isnt true 
internet banking as far as Mr W is concerned as it means he has to rely on his landline 
and cant just rely on the internet. But I dont think I can say its unfair or unreasonable 
that Mr W has to use his landline to authenticate if he wants to log onto his credit card 
account or use his credit card online at home. I should add that he can also log onto his 
credit card or use his credit card online when hes at home without having to rely on his 
landline if he uses the laptop hes told us he has. Hed have to label his laptop a trusted 
device in order to do so, and that means hed have to be willing to allow a cookie from 
Halifax to be stored on his laptop. Mr W has told us that he deletes his cookies every time 
he closes a browsing session, and that this is something anyone who is careful with security and interested in privacy should do. To the extent that Mr W is talking about 
browsing on a shared device, I agree with him. But I dont necessarily agree with him 
when it comes to a private device that isnt shared, as appears to be the case with his 
laptop. Our investigator suggested he could choose which cookies on his computer to 
delete. Mr W didnt think this was possible  and that hed have to delete all cookies or 
none  and its probably not something hed particularly want to do. Ive looked into this 
myself, and Im satisfied that Mr W can choose which cookies he wants to delete. So, Im 
satisfied he has two options when hes at home  relying on his landline or trusting his 
laptop and being selective about the cookies he deletes. I dont think thats unfair or 
unreasonable.
I accept that asking Mr W to key a code that would be displayed on screen into his 
landline isnt an option that would work when hes not at home. So, I have to consider 
whether Halifax has given Mr W a viable alternative to use when hes not at home and, in 
particular, when hes travelling abroad. I also have to consider whether Halifax has to give 
Mr W a viable alternative in those circumstances. And, having done so, and having taken 
everything else into account, I have to decide whether whats happened here is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances or not. So, thats what Im now going to do.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view firms should be 
giving their customers several different ways to authenticate themselves, and not just rely 
on mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of consumers. I can see 
why the FCA said this  as its paper makes clear, not everyone owns a mobile phone, nor 
is everyone able to use a mobile phone. So, its important that these groups arent 
overlooked otherwise they could find that theyre unable to access online banking or 
make online payments or manage their accounts remotely. And these arent the only 
groups potentially affected. Or the only scenarios when authentication can be 
problematic, depending on the solution adopted. Mr W, given his background, is perhaps 
more knowledgeable than many when it comes to potential pitfalls here. Hes worried, in 
particular, about whats going to happen when large numbers of people (including 
himself) start to travel again. And hes worried too about some of the technologies that 
businesses are relying on  some of which he says are unreliable (because they were 
never designed to be used the way they are now being used) and some of which he says 
will soon be redundant. Hes told us that many businesses, including Halifax, are relying 
on sunny day solutions, by which he means solutions that work when everything is well, 
but break down easily. Hes told us that this is because businesses, including Halifax, 
havent focussed on whats key here  and that, according to Mr W, is making sure at 
least one solution works whenever a customer has internet access. I can see that there 
has been a lot of discussion about consumers who might live or work in areas of limited 
mobile reception, and some discussion about what happens when consumers travel 
abroad to the EU and beyond  particularly the implication of roaming charges, for 
example. I agree with Mr W that this might well be an issue that will cause problems in the 
future, and it would have been helpful to have more material here which I could have 
considered on how far businesses need to go. But I also have to remember that I am 
looking at this individual complaint and have to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Mr W has a credit card with Halifax. Thats a card that he can use whenever and 
wherever he wants  either online or in person as long as the card is accepted where he 
wants to use it. If he uses it to pay for goods and services when hes present, Halifax 
wont need to check its him whos using the card using strong customer authentication as 
the rules dont apply to what are known as cardholder present transactions. Thats 
important to remember. There are, however, likely to be many scenarios when Mr W will 
want to either log into his credit card account (potentially to check how much available 
credit he has or to make sure there are no transactions he doesnt recognise) or use his credit card online when he wont be at home. I accept that a card reader or a token that 
would allow Mr W to generate a code in these circumstances would be extremely helpful 
for Mr W as they would allow him to log into his credit card or use it online wherever he 
happened to be  as long as he had internet access where he was because without that 
he wouldnt be able to get online.
Mr W hasnt been able to give us any examples of when hes been unable to log onto his 
account or use his credit card online  although he has been able to give me an example 
of when he had a problem at an airport because another card he had got blocked on 
account of security checks. Mr W has said to us that the way hes operated his accounts 
in the past isnt relevant  he says the only thing thats relevant is how he wants to 
operate his accounts. I agree with Mr W to a degree. Its clear that hes moving from a 
period in his life when he worked and has saved to a period in his life when hes likely to 
want to spend his money and is likely to travel abroad far more and for long periods of 
time. So, what hes done in the past is likely to be less relevant. I do, however, think I can 
and should take into account the type of account he has, and how it can be used. In this 
case, as Ive said, he has a credit card which he can use whenever and wherever he 
wants, as long as the card is accepted. And I also think I can and should take into 
account how hes used the account in the past and how hes likely to do so in the future.
Mr W will only have to worry about strong customer authentication when he is online  
either to access his account or to make a payment. If he uses his laptop to go online, then 
thats a device that Im satisfied he can trust  this would mean not deleting all cookies 
every time he logged off. I dont think thats unreasonable. It does, however, mean that Mr 
W would have to have his laptop  or a device  with him when he travels if he wants to 
be able to authenticate. If his laptop or device was the only way hed be able to get online 
when hes travelling  given that its only when he online that he needs to be able to 
authenticate  then I dont think that this would be unreasonable. But Im satisfied that 
there are a number of ways that Mr W can go online without his laptop or a device of his 
own  hes given several examples, mostly involving shared devices in relation to which 
saving cookies isnt recommended. In the circumstances, I agree with Mr W that the 
options Halifax is offering dont work well when hes travelling / not at home and that this, 
therefore, puts Mr W at a disadvantage because he doesnt own or want a mobile phone. 
In this particular case, however, given that Halifax told us that it cannot offer any other 
options, I think the appropriate remedy is to award compensation to Mr W to reflect the 
fact that his credit card, although still useful, isnt as convenient as it used to be because 
hell either not be able to use it at times when hes abroad or hell have to take his laptop 
 or another device he can trust  with him. I consider an award of £250 to be 
appropriate.
As Ive already mentioned, Im aware several businesses have recently introduced a 
token or a card reader option to allow customers to authenticate. Id like Halifax, when it 
replies to this provisional decision to let me know whether it has introduced any further 
alternative ways of authenticating since we started looking at this complaint. In particular, 
whether it has introduced or plans to introduce a token or a card reader option as several 
businesses have recently done that  including a token or a card reader that allows 
customers to authenticate when theyre shopping online. In the event that Halifax has 
introduced a token or a card reader option, then Id reconsider the award Im minded to 
make as it would mean Mr Ws card remains as convenient as it used to be.
Both parties were invited to respond to my provisional decision, and both did.
Halifax accepted my provisional decision  including agreeing to pay Mr W £250 in 
compensation. Halifax also let me know that it had recently introduced a token that would 
enable Mr W to authenticate online card payments wherever he has an internet connection. Halifax ordered a token for Mr W which hes since received. The token doesnt, however, 
allow Mr W to log into his account online  for that hed still need to use the methods I 
mentioned in my provisional decision or find alternatives. In response to my provisional 
decision, Mr W gave detailed reasons why he wouldnt be able to use his laptop to access 
his account online, meaning that he wouldnt be able to check his balance or his account for 
fraud in the way I thought he might be able to.
Putting things right
Having reconsidered everything again, I agree with Mr W that his credit card isnt going to be 
as useful as it used to be when hes travelling. He wont be able to easily check his balance, 
for example. Fortunately, now he has a token, he will be able to use his card online when 
hes travelling. I think the token and the £250 compensation that I recommended  and 
Halifax has accepted  is, however, a fair outcome in overall terms. So, given that Mr W has 
already received his token, I am going to require Halifax to pay Mr W £250 in compensation 
in full and final settlement of this complaint. I appreciate that this isnt necessarily the 
outcome that Mr W was hoping for, but I dont think I can require Halifax to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr W £250 in 
compensation to reflect the fact that his credit card, although still useful, isnt as convenient 
as it used to be.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman