DRN-3452854
The complaint
Mr M says AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £2,000 that AvantCredit provided to
Mr M on 8 July 2018. The monthly repayments were £122.53 and the total repayable
was £2,93.70.
Mr M says the lender did not suitably assess his application or his personal circumstances. 
He wasnt given adequate information about the terms of the loan. The borrowing has 
impacted his mental health.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought AvantCredit shouldnt have given the
loan. AvantCredit disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant
adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this
meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause
Mr M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
AvantCredit has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr M. It asked for his monthly income, living costs and his employment status. It carried 
out an income verification check with a third-party. It carried out a credit check to understand 
his credit history and his existing credit commitments. Based on these checks AvantCredit 
thought it was fair to lend.
Im think these checks were proportionate given the term of the loan and the value of the 
monthly repayment. Mr M complained AvantCredit didnt ask for bank statements, but this is 
not something a lender is obliged to do. However, I dont think the lender made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
AvantCredit could see from the credit check it carried out that Mr M had a significant level of
unsecured debt - £20,081  that was costing him around £1,050 each month. On top of this
he contributed £270 to a joint mortgage. Amongst other debts, he was using an overdraft 
facility and had eight credit cards that were either over or close to their limit. So I think there 
were already indicators of financial strain. 
By taking on this loan Mr M would need to spend around 50% of his income to service his 
unsecured debt. At this level I think AvantCredit ought to have realised there was a risk Mr M 
would be unable to sustainably repay this loan over its 24-month term  so without borrowing 
to repay or suffering adverse financial consequences. And it needed to consider this to meet 
its regulatory obligations, not just the pounds and pence affordability. 
The lender also argues Mr M paid back the loan without issue, bar a short COVID-related 
delay. But as it does not know that he did this sustainably it does not change my conclusion.
It follows I think AvantCredit was wrong to lend to Mr M.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent
seen any evidence that it did. Mr M says he wasnt given enough information about the loan. 
But the Pre-Contract Credit Information and the Fixed Sum Loan Agreement that Mr M 
signed set out the terms and costs of the loan in full. Putting things right - what AvantCredit needs to do
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amount that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not
have been provided to him so AvantCredit needs to put that right.
It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit must
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC must put things right as set out
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman