DRN-3882425
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Perren Consultants Ltd have handled a Plevin claim for him.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr B said Perren called him about a further claim he could make about 
his mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  a Plevin claim. He said he signed all the 
documents Perren sent to him and he said they told him his claim had been handed to 
solicitors, Ill call K. In April 2022, Mr B said after he hadnt heard anything about his claim, 
despite sending emails and trying to call Perren, he spoke to K. He said they told him they 
hadnt received a claim from Perren and they advised him to continue to try to contact 
Perren. They said they would also ask Perren about the claim. 
Later the same month Mr B said Perren emailed him apologising for the claim not being 
forwarded to K. They said theyd sent his claim to his lender, but theyd been told by the 
lender that it hadnt been received. Perren said they would re send his claim as a priority.   
Mr B said he hasnt had any further updates since then about his claim. He complained  to 
Perren. But they didnt respond to his complaint.
Unhappy with the lack of response to his complaint Mr B referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator was told by Perren that Mr Bs lender no longer accepted Plevin claims so 
his claim was closed.  And that theyd told Mr B about the outcome of his claim. Our 
investigator said Perren hadnt shown any evidence of the actions they said theyd taken. He 
said Perren should compensate Mr B by paying him £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor customer service.
Perren didnt agree they said theyd done everything they could to progress Mr Bs claim. But 
his claim was not considered valid and so his claim was closed. Perren reiterated theyd 
notified Mr B about this but didnt have any records of this. Mr Bs complaint has been 
referred for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its unfortunate that Perren havent provided the evidence that has been requested, other 
than an email saying what action they said they took. Where the information Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
In November 2014 the Supreme Court decided in the case of Plevin v. Paragon Personal 
Finance, that if a business had high levels of commission there was a duty to disclose the 
commission, as it created an unfair relationship. In response, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) published new rules on how to consider PPI in light of the decision, and 
these rules came into force on the 29 August 2017. So, if a PPI claim had been accepted or 
rejected the lender had to consider whether there was a claim to be made under Plevin. 
Mr B has told us that hed a successful PPI claim that Perren had assisted him with against 
his lender. And when they called about making another claim he was happy to authorise 
them to take this forward a Plevin claim on his behalf. Mr B has been quite consistent in his 
testimony to us that he hadnt been updated by Perren except for the email he received in 
April 2022, which hes shown us, that says they were going to send the claim to his lender. 
The Claims Management Conduct of Business Sourcebook (CMCOB) provides 
guidance to claims management companies such as Perren. CMCOB 6.1 is about 
Keeping the customer and others informed
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
CMCOB 6.1.13 goes on to say that if a claim isnt successful, the customer must be told how 
they can continue to pursue the claim. And about any statutory ombudsman or 
compensation scheme that they could go to.
I cant know whether Mr Bs lender had already considered Plevin when hed his successful 
PPI claim or not as I havent been shown any such evidence. But Perren hasnt provided 
evidence to show theyd adhered to CMCOB in updating Mr B about the progress of his 
claim. Or that theyd advised him about why his claim was unsuccessful or any steps he 
could take if he wanted to continue with his claim. So, Im more persuaded by Mr Bs 
testimony that Perren has failed to update him about his Plevin claim. So, I dont think 
Perren has acted fairly or reasonably as they havent shown they have adhered to CMCOB. 
Putting things right
I think this would have been distressing for Mr B as he had the expectation of a Plevin 
claim. And he has suffered inconvenience as hes had to seek updates from Perren when he 
shouldnt have had to. I think Perren should compensate Mr B for this and £150 seems fair 
and reasonable.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Perren Consultants Ltd to pay Mr B £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by their poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman