DRN-3624461
Complaint
D, a limited company represented by Ms D, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do 
enough to protect it when Ms D was targeted by scammers.
Background
Ms D runs her own business and uses a business account with Lloyds for that purpose. 
In June 2020, she was contacted by someone who claimed to be an employee of Her 
Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC). This individual told her that she owed a 
significant sum due to unpaid tax and associated penalties and charges. This needed to be 
paid immediately or shed face major consequences. Ms D complied with the instructions 
given to her by the caller and paid just over £30,000. She was reassured that some of these 
funds would be returned to her once her court case had been concluded.
Unfortunately, the caller wasnt a legitimate employee of HMRC but a scammer. Ms D says 
that she asked how she could be sure the enquiry was genuine, and she was asked to carry 
out on online search for the telephone number of a central London court. This matched the 
number that shed been called from. At the time, Ms D was unaware that it was possible for 
scammers to spoof numbers in this way to create a false sense of legitimacy.
Her communications with the scammers continued on an instant messaging service. She 
was sent documents outlining the payments that needed to be made and a document with 
the logo of the UK Supreme Court in its letterhead. This document was presented as if it had 
been sent and signed by a senior judge. She was told that there were procedural reasons 
that meant HMRC could only accept payments below a £1,000 threshold. This meant that 
she made 31 payments to 17 different payees over a period of three days. The reality of the 
situation only came to light when Lloyds blocked one of these payments and told her that 
shed been called by a scammer.
Lloyds didnt think it was obliged to refund Ms Ds losses. As far as it was concerned, she 
hadnt done enough to verify that the call was genuine. It had also done everything it could to 
get her money back from the receiving banks. Unfortunately, it had been moved on almost 
immediately and so was irrecoverable. 
The complaint was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator applied 
the terms of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. She wasnt persuaded that 
Ms D had met her requisite level of care under the code  she thought that shed made 
these payments without having a reasonable basis to believe that they were genuinely being 
made to settle an outstanding debt to HMRC. She thought there were several unusual 
factors that shouldve made Ms D pause for thought before going ahead with the payments.
However, she found that Lloyds hadnt met the standards for firms under the code. By the 
seventh payment, a pattern had been established that suggested there was a risk Ms D had 
been targeted by a scammer. It should have ensured that she was presented with an 
effective warning. It hadnt done so, so she concluded that it should refund 50% of Ms Ds 
losses from that payment onwards.
Lloyds agreed with the Investigators recommendation and offered to compensate Ms D in 
line with it. However, Ms D disagreed. She said that the scam took place at the height of the 
Covid-19 pandemic and she felt incredibly isolated. She also said that she was vulnerable at 
the time. When she received the call from the scammer, she was extremely anxious to learn 
that she had unpaid tax and that the legal consequences could be severe. She was also 
going through the stress of trying to buy a home and was in the early stages of pregnancy.
She thought Lloyds shouldve blocked the payments she made to the scammer. This was 
something that had happened several years earlier, and it had prevented her from making a 
payment in connection with an entirely separate scam.
Overall, she disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Ms D will find my conclusion hugely disappointing, but Ive decided to not uphold 
her complaint on the grounds that Lloyds has made a reasonable offer to settle it and I will 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of that customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may be fair 
and reasonable for the bank to reimburse that customer even though they authorised the 
payment. 
The CRM Code (to which Lloyds is a signatory) sets out standards that firms are expected to 
meet in terms of protecting their customers from the risk of financial harm. But it also sets 
out expectations that a customer should meet. As a starting point, a customer should receive 
a refund if they fall victim to an APP scam such as this one. 
Theres no dispute here that Ms D was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
was settling an outstanding liability to HMRC. But even though she was a victim of a scam, 
Lloyds can fairly and reasonably decline to pay a full refund if it can show that one of the 
exceptions in the code applies.
In this instance, Lloyds doesnt need to refund Ms D in full if:
. in all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the 
characteristics of the Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP 
scam, the Customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
On balance, Im not persuaded that Ms D can be said to have had a reasonable basis for 
believing that she was genuinely making payments to HMRC. I can see that she did take 
some steps to check whether the call was genuine (e.g. searching for the number online). 
Ive also borne in mind that she told me shed had a problem with an accountant some years 
previously that concerned non-payment of taxes.
However, I wouldnt expect an organisation such as HMRC to communicate with someone 
using a social messaging app, rather than using more formal methods. Its particularly improbable in the context of an alleged legal enforcement process apparently driven by the 
decision of a senior judge. Id have expected a process like that to take place via formal 
communications channels, and so Im surprised that Ms D didnt find this unusual.
It's also significant that Ms D was asked to make such a large number of payments to 
different payees and to keep her payments below a threshold of £1,000. I think Ms D ought 
to have recognised that HMRC must have the capability of accepting larger payments than 
this and so it shouldve aroused suspicion on her part.
Overall, I agree with the Investigators conclusion that Ms D didnt meet the expectations of a 
customer under the CRM Code because she made the payments without a reasonable basis 
for believing they were in connection with a legitimate transaction.
The code also sets out an obligation for firms to monitor accounts for indicators that a 
customer might be at risk of fraud and, where such a risk is identified, ensure an effective 
warning is given to that customer. Im persuaded that Lloyds shouldve had concerns here 
and its obligation to display an effective warning was therefore engaged.
Although the payments Ms D made were relatively low value, she made a very large number 
of payments in quick succession and they were all to new payees. This change in her 
spending pattern shouldve been identified as an indicator of fraud risk. From what Lloyds 
has told us, no warnings were displayed when these payments were made and so it follows 
that it didnt do what was required of it under the code. I agree with the conclusion of the 
Investigator that Lloyds ought to have recognised the enhanced risk of fraud from the 
seventh payment onwards and so it should pay a partial refund to D in connection with those 
transactions.
Ive thought about what Ms D has said regarding the circumstances she was living in at the 
time and the fact that the revelation from the scammer caused her such a high degree of 
stress that she found it much harder to think straight. But I must look at that in the context of 
what I consider to have been fairly clear warning signs. While I can see that Ms D found 
herself in difficult circumstances at the time, theres not strong enough evidence to say that 
she was vulnerable to the extent that she was unable to protect herself from the scam.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
If D accepts my decision, Lloyds Bank PLC should pay it:
- 50% of the money lost calculated from (and including) the seventh payment made in 
connection with the scam.
- 8% simple interest per annum on that sum calculated to run from the date it declined 
her claim under the CRM until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman