DRN-2347957
The complaint
Mr P complains that London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) irresponsibly sold
him a loan when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr P applied for a loan with LCCU to the value of £13,000 with the purpose of
settling existing credit card debt. But he says he was told LCCU would instead lend him a
lower sum of £11,000 on the condition he was able to obtain a guarantor for the loan. He
says he told LCCU he was unable to provide a guarantor. LCCU reconsidered its original
decision and approved the loan despite the lack of guarantor. Mr P has said at this time his
existing debt was around £30,000 and he was in financial difficulty.
In November 2019 Mr P contacted LCCU to say he was in arrears and suffering with mental
health issues. Hed been off work and entered a debt management programme as his debts
were around £70,000 which he couldnt afford. Mr P said hed told LCCU and provided
evidence of his time off work to illustrate his situation but it treated him insensitively.
Soon after the loan was agreed, Mr P says he learned an additional £50 needed to be paid
each month  bringing the monthly payments he needed to make from £229 to £279. This
£50 went into a savings account which he was unable to withdraw from, and he says this
made meeting his monthly obligations more difficult and locked his money in when he
needed it most. Mr P said LCCU hadnt made this clear to him at the point of application.
Mr P has since said this loan shouldnt have been given to him in light of his circumstances.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. Despite numerous requests over
several months, LCCU didnt provide us with any information. And looking at the information
Mr P had provided alone, she upheld the complaint and asked LCCU to adjust Mr Ps loan
and monthly repayments so he would only pay the £11,000 capital, and not any interest or
associated fees. She also said LCCU should allow Mr P to access his funds within his
savings account, and award him £200 in compensation for the distress hed been through.
Mr P responded to say he still hadnt heard from LCCU or ever received any terms and
conditions about the loan or savings account. And he said the money from his LCCU savings
account (to the sum of around £2,250) had been used by it to reduce the balance of his loan
and he wanted this back.
LCCU responded with a copy of Mr Ps loan agreement, and a document detailing his
income and outgoings that it has suggested was completed before the loan was approved.
This shows Mr Ps outgoings monthly income after bills and other expenses to be around
£540 against his loan repayment of £220.
Our investigator reviewed these documents but said it didnt change anything. She said
LCCU had still failed to show proportionate checks had taken place to ensure the loan was
affordable, and it hadnt given any context around requirements of a guarantor or the savings
account set up at the same time. So she didnt change her mind.
LCCU has since said Mr P had provided it with three months bank statements and payslips,
and statements of the credit cards he was consolidating. It also said saving with LCCU is
part of the terms and conditions of joining the union.
LCCU also said the savings act as security against the loan. It agreed it had initially said a
guarantor was necessary, but as Mr P had been unable to obtain one, it instead allowed him
the loan on the basis he provided a security (in savings) with LCCU to the sum of £1,500
which he agreed to. So LCCU said it had given the loan fairly in line with its processes.
Our investigator looked again and said from the evidence shed seen Mr P didnt have
£1,500 to put into a savings account so she wanted evidence and context to support this.
She also said it seemed Mr P needed to deposit a sum into the savings account regardless
of having a guarantor, so it was unclear why this didnt remain a requirement. And she said if
LCCU provided a lending criteria and further evidence shed consider it.
The investigator also said LCCU appeared to acknowledge Mr P had at least £16,000 in
credit card debt and a separate monthly loan repayment of over £600 going out each month.
So she said taking this into account, coupled with Mr Ps purpose of the loan (consolidation
of debt) she didnt agree there were no signs of financial difficulty.
The investigator concluded she was still upholding the complaint, but would re-consider the
complaint if LCCU was able to provide any further evidence the investigator had asked for,
and not been provided with. Several months have passed and weve heard nothing back but
LCCU despite chasing it for a response. As a result, the complaint was been passed to me 
for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional thoughts on 2 November 2020 and explained why I intended to 
uphold this complaint. Ive included the findings of this decision below.
As I see it, Mr Ps complaint requires me to answer three questions.
Did LCCU lend responsibly to Mr P?
Did LCCU make it clear Mr P would have an additional commitment of payments into 
the separate savings account?
Was LCCU able to fairly setoff his savings against his outstanding debt?
And if I decide the answer to any of these questions is no, Ill go on to consider the impact on
Mr P and what I consider to be a suitable direction or compensation in the circumstances.
Responsible lending
When lending wed expect LCCU to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to
satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. And as Ive
outlined above, LCCU has provided very little to support what proportionate checks it
completed. So Ive assessed this complaint on what I have available.
Having looked at the budget sheet LCCU has provided, it shows Mr P had monthly
outgoings of around £1,350, made up of loan and credit card payments. This was against his
income of around £2,500. These existing repayments were made up of at least three
separate loans Mr P already had. Id also note that within this document it doesnt seem to
account for rent or mortgage payments, council tax, or energy or water bills.
LCCU hasnt provided any details of further enquiries it made about the absence of these
common and everyday expenses from Mr Ps monthly expenditure. As a minimum Id have
expected it to demonstrate what it did to satisfy itself the details on the form were a truerepresentation of Mr Ps financial position.
This suggests to me that this budget sheet is unlikely to be accurate and not an indication of
LCCU carrying out reasonable or proportionate checks. And as our investigator has
suggested previously, taking into account Mr Ps existing debts and outgoings and purpose
of this loan (consolidation), I dont agree with LCCUs comments that Mr P showed no signs
of financial difficulty.
Ive also thought about the criteria for a guarantor. LCCU has agreed this was initially a
requirement. But as our investigator has said and LCCU hasnt disputed, it appears Mr P
wouldve always needed to have provided a deposit to obtain the loan.
So despite LCCUs assurances two of its senior managers discussed this application and
made a decision that the deposit would act as security enough in place of the guarantor, its
provided nothing to support this such as a lending criteria or internal notes from the time. As
a result, Im not persuaded LCCU carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when
lending to Mr P, and Im not satisfied it has shown he was able to repay this credit in a
sustainable way
Savings account
Mr P has said he was given no information about an additional financial commitment of £50
per month into a savings account. As Ive been given nothing about the sales process its
difficult for me to say what wouldve been discussed at the time. But as Ive said above, Im
not satisfied LCCU has shown the loan was affordable for him.
So in turn I think an additional commitment of £50 per month to Mr P wouldve only
negatively added to the pressure he was under and stretching his outgoings further. Ive
thought about the impact of this below.
Setting off Mr Ps savings against the loan
Mr P has said LCCU unfairly setoff £2,250 from his savings account against his outstanding 
debt. LCCU has provided a copy of its loan application form which Mr P has signed. 
Underneath the details of the loan sum and monthly repayments there is a security entitled
Security which says:
We agree that all monies held with the Credit Union on/our Saver Plus Account now or
hereafter is held to secure repayment of the Loan and cannot be withdrawn until the loan is
repaid in full. If the outstanding balance of the Loan becomes immediately repayable under
Clause 14 or 15, the Credit Union shall be entitled to apply any of the Borrowers or
Guarantors other deposits or savings with the Credit Union towards repayment of the
amount due from the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, in exercise of the Credit Unions
rights under Clauses 17 and 18.
From this, Im satisfied the terms allow for LCCU to setoff outstanding debt using funds held
in a LCCU savings account. And Im satisfied hed have seen this when signing the
agreement.
Where applied appropriately, our service would generally take the view that it's reasonable
to use the right of set-off. I say this as I understand the sum taken was due and payable, and
Mr P held both accounts in the same capacity.
We would also expect a business to use this right only where terms of the account arentbeing met  such as missing loan repayments as Mr P did.
Wed also typically expect a business to give a customer reasonable notice to repay the debt
before using the right of set-off  such as arrears letters or repayment options. And wed
expect it to provide information about its right of set-off before it exercises it.
Ive not been given anything from LCCU to demonstrate how or when it informed Mr P (if at
all) beyond the loan application.
So Ive asked myself whether or not this information being given to Mr P wouldve been likely
to change his actions had he been informed LCCU intended to set off these funds. And from
what Ive seen of Mr Ps situation, Im not persuaded he wouldve been in a position to do
anything differently (if LCCU didnt tell him).
For these reasons Im not going to ask LCCU to refund any of Mr Ps funds from the savings
account as Im satisfied it was fair for it to use these towards his arrears  whether or not it
gave him notice of this around the time it was taken.
Overall
Taking into account the above, Im not satisfied LCCU carried out reasonable and
appropriate checks when lending to Mr P, or that he was able to repay this credit in a
sustainable way. I also believe the additional commitment to the savings account wouldve
most likely made his position more difficult given the financial challenges he was
experiencing at the time.
I concluded that a fair resolution to this complaint would be for LCCU to re-calculate Mr Ps 
loan so he only pays towards the loans capital, and remove any charges or fees added. I 
also considered the impact on Mr Ps wellbeing and intended to direct LCCU to pay him 
£350 in compensation accordingly.
LCCU hasnt responded to my decision. Mr P has and disagreed. He said the savings 
account was opened without his knowledge and he never signed anything to agree to it. 
Hes also mentioned LCCUs lack of engagement with his complaint, and the overall impact 
of this complaint on his wellbeing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines I proposed within my 
provisional decision. 
Mr P has said he had no knowledge of the savings account being opened, and also that 
LCCU used his savings towards the loan without his knowledge. 
As Ive explained above, its not clear to me how the savings account was presented to Mr P. 
But I am satisfied Mr P knew he had savings within an account with LCCU, and that the loan 
agreement he agreed to and signed specifically outlined LCCUs ability to use the funds 
within the savings account as security should the loan repayments not be met. So these 
points havent changed my mind.Ive also considered Mr Ps comments about his wellbeing and LCCUs actions. While Im 
sympathetic to his situation, I had already taken these points into account when determining 
what would be a fair resolution to this complaint.
So, I see no reason to depart from my provisional thoughts and Im upholding this complaint 
in line with them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and London Community Credit Union Limited must:
re-calculate Mr Ps loan so he is only making repayments towards the capital 
£11,000 (removing any interest previously payable);
refund any additional fees or interest charged, which LCCU may use to reduce the 
remaining capital sum; and
pay Mr P £350 in compensation directly (and not to be taken by LCCU as a reduction 
of the remaining loan balance).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman