DRN-2114135
The complaint
Mr T says Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy.co.uk) lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr T took out a 12-month instalment loan from Savvy in October 2018. The loan was for 
£500, repayable in instalments of £83.33 per month.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ts complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr T 
disagreed  he said Savvy shouldve seen he had many other loans and shouldnt have 
given him multiple loans. As Mr T didnt accept the adjudicators view, his complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T could 
repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending to Mr T, Savvy spoke to him by phone (it has provided the recording) to go 
over some of the details of his initial application. Mr T says he doesnt now recognise the 
income figure (£1,390 per month) used by Savvy but this appears to be the information he 
provided as part of his application. Savvy quotes this figure to Mr T, along with his 
employment and payday details, and he doesnt correct it. Savvy also goes over Mr Ts 
essential expenditure and Mr T confirms he contributes £400 towards rent, £150 for 
housekeeping and £150 for household bills. He also says he works form home and lives in a 
city centre so has no travel costs, other than an occasional £11 for when he needs to go to 
the office. 
Savvy also carried out a credit check  this showed Mr T had three credit cards and one mail 
order account, which were up-to-date at the time of the application. There is no evidence of 
any other unsecured loans. Savvy asks Mr T a question about one of the credit cards 
because the data reported was unusual  it showed that the card had a zero balance but the 
lender had reported late payments for some months. Mr T tells Savvy the card was being 
paid in the normal way  and while I think it might have been appropriate for Savvy to probe 
this answer a bit further, as the card balance was showing as zero I dont think it was 
something which required detailed questioning or additional evidence from Mr T.
Based on the information Mr T provided to Savvy and the information Savvy obtained as part 
of its credit check, I cant see any reason why Savvy ought to have concluded the monthly 
instalments of £83.33 wouldve been unaffordable to Mr T.
Ive considered what Mr T has said about having multiple loans  but this isnt what Savvys 
credit check showed  and Mr T only had one loan with Savvy, so these points dont change 
my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman