DRN-1944269
The complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1999 in connection with 
an interest free loan to buy goods. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In 1999, Mr B applied for a loan account by completing an application form in a store. PPI 
was added to his account. He says this was done without his knowledge; he couldnt recall 
any conversation about PPI; and he thought that whatever he signed was all part of the HP 
agreement. 
The policy cost was no more than 93p per month. The policy would have paid out if Mr B 
couldnt work because he had an accident, was unwell or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint him, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA produced 
a copy of Mr Bs loan application. I can see there was a separate box headed Payment 
Protection Insurance Application which said I require payment protection insurance This 
box is signed on Mr Bs application. He said he thought this was part of the loan, but the box 
states clearly enough that it was for insurance. And I think he could have left the box blank if 
he didnt want it. 
As he signed the form, I can reasonably assume he checked the details were correct. So I 
think his signature means AXA probably made it clear the policy was optional and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not be able to remember this.
I can also reasonably assume the premiums for the policy would have appeared on his 
statements  so if he hadnt agreed to the policy, or it had been added without his knowledge 
or consent, I think its reasonable to say he would have queried the premiums shortly after 
the policy was added. So taking all this into consideration, I think Mr B knew the policy was 
optional and chose to purchase it because he saw some value in it.I dont think AXA advised Mr B to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for him, but it still had to provide him with clear information about 
the policy so he could decide if he wanted to take it out. 
I dont know exactly what information Mr B received about the policy at the time of the sale. 
But even if I accept that he wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont 
think this would have affected his decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained 
below.
Mr B was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for him to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. He told us he was employed and in good health. Mr B says 
he would have received some sick pay if he was away from work due to illness. But the 
policy could have paid out in addition to Mr Bs employment benefits so could have proved 
useful to Mr B if he had an accident, became ill or lost his job.  
I dont know if AXA made the cost and benefits of the policy clear enough for Mr B to 
understand what the real cost of the policy was for him. But taking everything into account, I 
think if Mr B had properly understood the cost and benefit provided he would have thought 
the policy potentially useful at a time when he might have needed it most.
Taking everything into account, I think he knew he had a choice about taking the PPI and I 
think he would still have taken out the cover even if he had been given full details about it.  
Ive taken into account all of Mr Bs submissions, but they do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman