DRN-3203329
The complaint
Ms L complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and their decision to 
avoid her insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021, Ms L made a claim on her home insurance policy underwritten by RSA 
after her property had been vandalised. But when Ms L made this claim, she explained the 
property was her holiday home and a friend had been staying in it full time during the 
lockdown imposed by the government.
Due to this information RSA instructed a third-party company, who Ill refer to as C, to 
compile an investigation report. C spoke to Ms L as part of this investigation and it was 
determined that the insured property was in fact a holiday let owned by Ms L rather than her 
main residence as shed stated in her policy application and on the policys Statement of 
Fact (SOF). So, RSA declined Ms Ls insurance claim and avoided the policy as they 
wouldnt have offered it if Ms L had made them aware the property wasnt her main 
residence. They refunded Ms L the premiums shed paid from her renewal date in July 2020 
and explained Ms L would need to declare the avoidance to any future insurers. Ms L was 
unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms L didnt think RSAs decision to avoid her policy was fair. She explained shed made a 
mistake when submitting her initial application for the policy and didnt realise shed declared 
the property as her main residence. So, when she came to renew the policy, she stated to 
RSA there we no changes necessary as she wasnt aware shed provided inaccurate 
information at the policy inception. Because of this, she didnt think the avoidance as fair as 
it impacted her ability to obtain future insurance and would likely increase her future 
premium prices. Ms L also explained how this issue had impacted her mental health due to 
worry and anxiety it caused. So, Ms L wanted RSA to reverse their decision to avoid the 
policy so she no longer had to declare it. 
RSA responded and didnt agree. They thought their decision to decline the claim and avoid 
the policy was fair as Ms L had a duty to ensure the information she provided was accurate. 
And they thought Ms L failed to do this at the inception of the policy and again when it 
renewed. And as they though the avoidance was fair, they thought their decision to report 
this as a non-disclosure that Ms L would need to declare to future insurers was reasonable. 
So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Ms L remained unhappy with this 
response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt think Ms L had 
taken reasonable care to ensure she didnt make a mis-representation to RSA. So, he 
thought RSA acted fairly when deeming Ms Ls actions to be a qualifying representation. And 
as Ms L had failed to correct this error when she renewed the policy despite receiving a SOF 
and speaking to RSA, he thought RSA were fair to deem this representation as reckless. So, 
he thought RSA had acted in line with The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) by avoiding the policy and declaring the non-
disclosure. He also noted that RSA had refunded Ms L premiums from the renewal date, 
which they didnt have to do. So, he didnt think RSA needed to do anything more.
Ms L didnt agree. She maintained her view that shed made a genuine mistake and was 
being unfairly punished by having to declare the non-disclosure to future insurers. And she 
explained the impact this was continuing to have on her mental health. As Ms L didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms L. I recognise Ms L says 
the mis-representation was a genuine mistake caused by technical difficulties when setting 
up the policy. And I understand the point she raises when she queries why would it make 
sense for her to pay premiums to a policy knowing the policy was unlikely to cover any 
claims she made. So, I can appreciate why Ms L would feel as though shes been unfairly 
treated as in her mind, a genuine mistake has left her in a position where her future 
insurance premiums are likely to be increased for an extended period of time.
But for me to say RSA have acted unfairly and should reverse their decision to report the 
non-disclosure, Id need to be satisfied that their decision to avoid the policy was unfair. So, 
Id need to be satisfied the actions theyve taken fail to act in accordance with the rules and 
actions set out in CIDRA. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
CIDRA explains a customer must take reasonable care to ensure they dont make a 
misrepresentation to an insurer when taking out a policy. In this situation, its not disputed 
that Ms L stated the insured property was her main residence when it wasnt. So, I dont 
think its in dispute that Ms L made a misrepresentation. 
And RSA have confirmed if Ms L had made them aware the property was a holiday let and 
not her main residence, they wouldnt have offered the policy. As the policy documentation 
states the policy was intended to insure the main residence of a customer, Im satisfied this 
wouldve been the case. So, I think Ms L made a qualifying misrepresentation on this 
occasion.
Where a qualifying misrepresentation has been made, CIDRA then stipulates the actions an 
insurer can take. These actions are dependent on the classification of the misrepresentation. 
In this situation, RSA have classified the misrepresentation as reckless. So, Ive thought 
about whether this was fair and reasonable.
While I recognise Ms L says this was a genuine mistake, and I dont doubt it may have been, 
Ive seen that Ms L was given the opportunity to review the details of the insurance and 
confirm whether any changes needed to be made at the point of renewal in July 2020. Ive 
seen the SOF clearly states the property was listed as her main residence and it also 
explains it was Ms Ls responsibility to ensure all the information was correct.
Ive also listened to the call recording of the conversation between Ms L and RSA when she 
called them before renewing to discuss lowering the excess attached to the policy. As Ms L was calling to lower the excess, Im satisfied Ms L wouldve read through the policy 
documentation to determine what this excess was.
And on this call, RSA asked Ms L if there were any changes required to the policy to which 
Ms L replied saying there wasnt. So, I think Ms L misrepresented to RSA at both the policy 
inception and at the renewal. As this misrepresentation occurred on several occasions, 
despite Ms L having the policy documentation available and being prompted to check the 
accuracy of the information, I think RSA have acted fairly when classifying the 
misrepresentation as reckless.
CIDRA explains that when a qualifying misrepresentation is deemed to be reckless, an 
insurer is able to decline the claim, avoid the policy and report the non-disclosure. And these 
are the actions RSA took. CIDRA also explains insurers are under no obligations to refund 
any premiums that have been paid in this scenario but Im aware RSA did so on this 
occasion. So, Im satisfied RSA acted fairly and because of this, I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms L was hoping for. And I recognise it wont help resolve 
her concerns about obtaining future insurance and the price of this. But I hope it goes some 
way to explaining why the actions RSA took were fair and in line with the relevant laws that 
are in place and that this brings some closure to Ms L.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman