DRN-2794305
The complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a store card. 
I know that PPI was sold to Mrs C in connection with her store card for a clothing store. 
However, AXA is the insurer and it is responsible for her complaint. With that in mind, I will 
refer to AXA for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mrs Cs store card account was opened in July 1999. PPI was sold sometime later in 
January 2001. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Mrs C disagreed with that view. She said she was persuaded to take the PPI policy out and 
that having secure employment wasnt a reason for AXA not to refund the premiums to her. 
As Mrs C does not agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mrs C said that PPI was sold to her at the same time as she bought her store card. But the 
electronic evidence AXA provided about the policy shows that it didnt start until January 
2001. On that basis, I think it was most likely sold to her on the telephone as I wouldnt 
expect an in-store sale after the account was already running. 
The first thing Ive thought about in respect of this sale is whether Mrs C would have known 
the PPI was optional and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I appreciate Mrs C 
says she was persuaded to take the cover out. But as she had already been using her store 
card for over a year before the cover was sold, I dont think shed have thought PPI was a 
condition of her card. I think shed have known she could have refused the cover if she didnt 
want it. 
When it sold PPI to Mrs C, AXA had to give her enough information about the cover so she 
could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information should have 
been clear, fair and not misleading. 
I havent been provided with a copy of the call recording. Thats not surprising given how 
long ago the cover was sold. I wouldnt expect either party to keep such records for 20 
years. So in the absence of a call recording I cant know what was said during the sale. So I 
do accept that its possible Mrs C wasnt provided with all of the information she should have 
been given when the PPI was sold to her. 
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I also must consider what I 
think Mrs C would have likely done if she had been provided with all of the necessary 
information. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at what we know about the policys 
terms and conditions. And Ive also given careful thought to what Mrs C told us about her 
personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if she had to make a claim on the PPI, 15% of Mrs Cs card balance would 
have been repaid for every month she was out of work because of redundancy or if she was 
unwell. Each claim could have lasted for 12 months. 
Mrs C told us that she would have been entitled to six months full pay from work, alongside 
some half pay, if she was off sick. So it looks as though the PPI would have lasted for longer 
than her full work benefits. Mrs C also said she didnt need the cover because she could 
have relied on family support to repay her card if she ran into financial difficulties. I dont 
doubt it would have been the intention of Mrs Cs friends and family members to help her. 
But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that assistance would have been 
available to Mrs C as and when she needed it.  
I understand Mrs C was in good health when she took the cover out. So I dont think shed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything that was unusual about her circumstances that would have prevented her 
from making a successful claim if she needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I can see how PPI could have been helpful to Mrs C if shed had to 
make a claim. So it follows that I dont think Mrs C could have acted differently even if AXA 
had given her more or better information about the cover. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld her 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I dont require AXA France IARD to take any further action 
in respect of it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman