DRN-4453034
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund the money she lost after she fell 
victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, I understand it to be as follows.
In April 2023, Miss Z was looking to book some accommodation abroad for an upcoming trip.  
She saw somewhere that was suitable on a well-known travel marketplace. Miss Z 
responded to the advertisement, which advised that contact should be made through a 
common social media platform. She was sent an email request, which appeared to come 
from the travel marketplace, indicating that payment should be made to them. But unknown 
to her at the time, she was dealing with fraudsters.
The fraudster told Miss Z they were a real estate agency and provided details of a 
registration number and a link to a website. Miss Z has said she saw they had some positive 
reviews and believing everything to be genuine, Miss Z followed the fraudsters instructions 
and, on 4 April 2023, went ahead and made a payment, from her Starling account, for 
£1,614 to the account details she was given.
Before doing so, Miss Z did question whether she could make the payment directly to the 
travel marketplaces account, as she felt it was guaranteed. But she was told that everybody 
needed to follow the same procedure. Miss Z initially questioned the payment with the 
fraudsters as she received a Confirmation of Payee (COP) no match warning  but the 
fraudsters confirmed with Miss Z that the account number and sort code were correct, but 
the name should be that of their accountant, which they gave to Miss Z, which then matched.
Miss Z became suspicious when she was then unable to locate her order on the genuine 
travel marketplaces website. She also noticed at this point that the email address, on the 
reservation confirmation shed received, didnt match that of the travel marketplace.
Miss Z raised the matter with Starling, but it declined her claim. Starling is a signatory of the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Starling says one or more of those exceptions applies in 
this case. In summary it said at the time the payment was made it had made Miss Z aware of 
the potential for this to be a scam. It added that Miss Z had failed to provide it with the 
evidence it had requested to enable it to review the purchase she was making.
Unhappy with Starlings response, Miss Z then referred the matter to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, 
under the CRM Code, he didnt think Miss Z lacked a reasonable basis for believing that 
she was making a legitimate payment towards a holiday rental. So he thought Starling 
should refund the money shed lost along with interest.
Starling didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary it thought there were enough 
red flags that Miss Z ought to have been alarmed at what she was being asked to do. It 
added that when Miss Z was making the payment it had asked her if she had visited the 
property and shed answered yes (although she hadnt visited the property). It says this 
eliminated any concerns it had with this being a scam and also prevented it from providing 
further enhanced warnings and likely a manual review where a call to the customer could 
have been made. Starling did not consider it should be held fully liable, however it offered to 
refund Miss Z 50% of her loss, along with 8% interest.
Miss Z didnt accept Starlings offer. As agreement hasnt been reached the complaint has 
now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Miss Z is responsible for any payments shes authorised  
herself. But, as set out, the CRM Code requires a firm to reimburse victims of APP scams  
that fall under its provisions, unless a firm can demonstrate that one of the exceptions to  
reimbursement apply. In this case, Starling says Miss Z  lacked a reasonable basis for 
believing the person they were transacting with were legitimate. It added that Miss Z had 
been provided with a warning, but in not answering one of the questions it had asked her 
accurately, it was prevented from providing enhanced warnings.
Ive thought about these points carefully and I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling should have refunded Miss Z the money 
she lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Starling should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss Z 
lost.
- The money was taken from Miss Zs current account. It is not clear how Miss Z would 
have used the money if Starling had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Starling should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple 
per year, from the date Starling decided not to refund Miss Z under the CRM Code to 
the date of payment.
Did Miss Z have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Ive carefully considered Starlings representations about whether Miss Z had a reasonable 
basis for believing the purchase was genuine. Weighing everything up, while I think that the 
matter is relatively finely balanced, I dont think Miss Z proceeded to make the payment 
without having a reasonable basis for belief. I say that because;
- I dont think the price was so low that Miss Z ought to have thought it was too good to 
be true.
- Starling has raised that Miss Z was looking for holiday accommodation via an official 
booking website, so there was no need for her to communicate with anybody else if 
she was completing the transaction via an official booking website. But I dont think 
this in and of itself would have made it apparent to Miss Z that this was a scam. The advert had first appeared on a legitimate travel marketplaces website and Miss Z has 
said shed seen positive reviews. I dont consider it unreasonable that Miss Z would 
have thought that there was some kind of vetting of these adverts. It follows I dont 
think it was unreasonable for her to follow the instructions, with regards to how 
contact should be made regarding enquiries, that were provided within the 
advertisement.
- Ive considered that Miss Z was asked to make a payment to what she was told was 
an accountant. Starling do not consider this was believable and that Miss Z ought to 
have challenged this and asked further questions. I concur with our Investigator, that 
I dont agree that an accountant being involved is unbelievable and there is the 
potential for a number of different parties to be involved when renting out a property. 
Im also minded that the fraudsters provided Miss Z with details for what appears to 
be a legitimate real estate agency, which I think would have added plausibility.
- Miss Z did question whether she could pay directly through the travel marketplace, as 
she thought that meant things were guaranteed  and she also raised that there had 
been a COP no match and she sought clarification on this. In the circumstances of 
this case, Im not persuaded by Starlings assertions here that this is a sign that   
Miss Z was uncomfortable with what she was being asked to do, rather I think this 
suggests that she wasnt generally acting carelessly. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for her to move passed this when given assurances by the fraudsters.
- Miss Z had received an email which I think reasonably at first would have appeared 
legitimate to her, only later did she realise the domain was different. Alongside this, 
she was also under the impression that, while she wasnt paying them directly, she 
believed the funds would be held by the travel marketplace until the end of her trip.
Miss Z had not been scammed before. She is not an expert in all matters relating to frauds 
and scams, nor about how they work or can play out. The fact that the bank, as a 
professional in these matters, can think of additional things Miss Z could have done, with the 
benefit of hindsight, does not mean that she did not do enough. People dont want or expect 
to be scammed and I think overall Miss Z took reasonable, appropriate, and proportionate 
steps to try and protect herself. I dont consider she had any reason to think the seller would 
not keep to their side of that bargain.
Starling has argued that Miss Z answering yes to whether shed seen the property  
prevented it from showing an enhanced warning. But the test under this part of the CRM  
code is just whether Miss Z ignored an effective warning. And, regardless of her answering 
in the way she did, which it should be noted is accepted she did without any intent to 
deceive, I dont think the warning she was shown was effective in her circumstances.
I say that because Starling has provided evidence of the warning it did provide to Miss Z, 
based on the answers she gave. Having looked at this I dont think it could be considered as 
effective. Starling had been told by Miss Z that the purpose of the payment was renting a 
property or room, to live in  yet Starling went on to provide a warning that is more relevant 
to a safe account scam and wasnt specific to the type of scam Miss Z was falling victim to.
Notwithstanding that, our Investigator asked Starling to share what Miss Z would have seen, 
had she not indicated that shed seen the property. But again, having looked at what Starling 
has shared with us, I dont consider that could be considered as an effective warning either. 
It doesnt talk about how typical rental scams look, feel or play out. And again, it isnt specific to one type of scam, as it goes on to focus on hallmarks which are more typical to safe 
account scams.
Overall, Im not persuaded Starling has established that Miss Z ignored an effective warning.
All things considered and on balance, while I accept this is a finely balanced point, the 
evidence persuades me that Miss Z did not lack a reasonable basis for believing that she 
was dealing with a legitimate agency and paying for genuine services. And I dont think 
Starling has demonstrated that Miss Z ignored an effective warning. Therefore Starling 
should refund her in full under the provisions of the CRM Code.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Starling Bank Limited should now;
- Refund Miss Z the £1,614 she lost as a result of this scam.
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Starling 
Bank Limited originally declined Miss Zs claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman