DRN-3308660
The complaint
Mrs L, represented by Mr L, complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA upheld a non-
receipt claim for an item that had been confirmed as received. Mrs Ls account has since 
been blocked.
Mr L has dealt with issues throughout this complaint with PayPal. However, as the actions 
were taken in regard to Mrs Ls account, this complaint is set up in Mrs Ls name and for 
ease of reference I have referred to Mrs L throughout my decision.
What happened
On 11 January 2021, Mrs L received payment of £47.50 for goods sold. PayPal says that it 
received notification from the buyer that the transaction was unauthorised on 11 February, 
but this dispute wasnt upheld. On 23 February PayPal says the buyer disputed the 
transaction saying the item hadnt been received. A screenshot from the buyer confirming 
receipt of the item was provided, but this wasnt acceptable evidence. Therefore, PayPal 
upheld the dispute in favour of the buyer. Following further consideration PayPal provided a 
voucher for the equivalent amount as a gesture of goodwill to be used for future 
transactions. This didnt clear the negative balance on the account and the account was 
blocked.
Mrs L says that evidence of the item being received has been provided and that this should 
be enough for this complaint to be upheld. 
PayPal has provided information from its User Agreement saying what is acceptable as 
proof of receipt and that the information provided about the receipt of goods wasnt 
acceptable. Therefore, it didnt accept it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She thought it reasonable that PayPal would take the 
evidence provided in the form of a message from the buyer as confirmation of receipt. 
Because of this she said the negative balance on Mrs Ls account should be corrected and 
that the voucher already provided as a gesture of goodwill would be considered additional 
compensation for the upset caused.
PayPal didnt agree with our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based on its individual merits. I take the relevant rules and 
regulations into account, but my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable 
given the unique circumstances of the complaint. Where the evidence provided is incomplete 
or contradictory I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities, that is what I 
consider most likely to have happened given the information provided and the wider 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mrs L sold an item to a third party for £47.50. The transaction took place on 11 January 
2021. The details of the transaction show that the item was to be posted and the tracking 
information confirms the item was accepted at a post office on 12 January 2021. I think this 
is enough evidence to show that the item was sent as expected.
There was initially a dispute by the buyer about an unauthorised transaction, but this wasnt 
upheld, and Mrs Ls account wasnt affected by this. However, on 23 February PayPal said 
the buyer had said the item hadnt been received. The tracking information provided showed 
the item being posted and didnt provide confirmation of it being delivered. I note the 
comments PayPal has provided in respect to its User Agreement and the evidence required. 
However, I can also see in this case that PayPal acknowledged an issue on 5 March 2021 
saying that it had been in touch with the postal provider and that it had been told that due to 
the pandemic the tracking number hadnt been updated. There was then information about 
raising a claim. A copy of a letter from the postal provider regarding this transaction has 
been provided showing a refund of the postage paid. I think this further supports Mrs Ls 
claim that the item was sent to the buyers address as expected.
I appreciate that there is then a potential gap in evidence as the issue with the tracking 
information means it cant be confirmed the item was delivered. However, I also note that the 
buyer initially raised a claim about not making the transaction before then saying the item 
wasnt delivered. I think this raises concerns. Given the circumstances of this complaint and 
the issue that has been highlighted by the postal provider in regard to the tracking 
information I think it would be reasonable for PayPal to consider other evidence (additional 
to the tracking information) in order to make decision on this issue. In this case a copy of a 
message from the buyer confirming receipt of the item has been provided. 
Having considered all the evidence in this case and I think it reasonable on balance to 
accept that the item Mrs L sold was sent and delivered to the buyer. I think Mrs L provided 
enough information to support this outcome. Therefore, I uphold this complaint.
I understand that Mrs Ls account has been blocked due to the negative balance on it. I think 
the funds removed from the account relating to this transaction should be re-credited. I note 
a voucher was provided as a gesture of goodwill in response to the issues raised and I do 
not require any further action to be taken regarding the voucher.
Putting things right
PayPal should re-credit Mrs Ls account with the amount that was reversed following the 
dispute regarding the item being received. If any adverse information has been recorded due 
to this issue on Mrs Ls credit file this should be removed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA should 
take the actions taken above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman