DRN-3306644
The complaint
Ms Y (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt complete enough affordability checks before approving her 
Safety Net facility. 
What happened
Ms Y approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in January 2017. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Ms Y was not advanced a payday loan. 
Ms Y was initially given a facility with a £100 credit limit in January 2017. Her limit was 
increased on a further 14 occasions with her final increase  taking the credit limit to £900 in 
June 2018. 
Ms Y had some problems repaying her facility and SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman 
that as of November 2021 an outstanding balance remained of £1,140.39. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ys complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried 
out before granting this facility were likely proportionate even though she did have some 
concerns about the number of bank transfers into and out of Ms Ys bank account. But 
without any further information from Ms Y she wasnt able to look at it any further. 
But, the information SNC gathered about Ms Ys circumstances suggested she would be 
able to afford the repayments she was committed to making. 
The adjudicator also concluded that due to the way Ms Y used the facility, SNC should have 
stopped allowing her to continue using it from 21 August 2017. At this point in time, the 
adjudicator was concerned at the way Ms Y was using the facility and she was still using 
other forms of expensive, high cost credit. 
Ms Ys representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment and the 
ombudsman referral letter but no further comments were provided. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment because it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman 
should be able to look at the complaint. In summary, it made the following points; 
it hasnt received proper authorisation from Ms Y to allow her representative to deal 
with the case;
it hasnt received anything from Ms Y  such as an email confirming she has 
appointed her representatives;
due to no email being received SNC says that no valid complaint has ever been 
made which is why no final response has been issued; 
SNC doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction because no final 
response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as laid down by the 
rules (DISP);
Although Ms Ys representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it to;
The approach SNC takes to verify a consumer is reasonable and has her privacy and 
data protection in mind and
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns in the ombudsman referral letter. In her view, 
SNC had been given more than eight weeks to investigate Ms Ys complaint following the 
initial complaint made by the representative and then from when we informed SNC that the 
complaint would be taken on. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look at this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by SNC as to why it 
considers this complaint to be outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. 
Ive thought careful about what SNC has said, but like our adjudicator explained, Im not 
persuaded there is any reason why the Financial Ombudsman cant consider this complaint. 
It is disappointing that SNC has taken the stance that it has in relation to this particular 
jurisdiction issue considering that, in my view, it is patently incorrect and is therefore simply 
delaying the resolution of this complaint.
SNC has clearly had significantly longer than the eight weeks afforded to it by the Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rules to investigate and issue a final response to this complaint. Ms Y 
complained through her representative to SNC in October 2020 (Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me Ms Y hadnt correctly authorised her representative), the complaint was 
referred here on 4 March 2021, and the Financial Ombudsman then wrote to SNC on 18 
March 2021 explaining the complaint was now being taken forward. It is now nearly a year 
later and over a year since the complaint was originally made, but the firm nonetheless 
disputes that it has had eight weeks to consider the complaint. This is clearly wrong in my 
opinion.
SNC has had more than eight weeks in which to investigate the complaint and issue a 
response. Im therefore satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction to consider 
this matter in accordance with DISP and can proceed to issue a decision on the merits of 
Ms Ys complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Ms Y wasnt given a payday loan. Instead she was provided with a credit 
facility where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the 
drawdown. After the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to 
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumer finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Ms Ys expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Ms Ys facility was approved for £100 SNC needed to satisfy itself that 
Ms Y would be in a position to make the repayment of £20, by carrying out a proportionate 
check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Ms Ys income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to her bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Ms Ys income and expenditure was, after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Ms Y could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and there doesnt appear to have been anything in 
those results which wouldve led SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have 
carried out further checks before the facility was approved. 
It seems Ms Y seems to accept our adjudicators opinion, that SNC wasnt wrong to approve 
her running credit facility. For the avoidance of doubt, I also dont think SNC was wrong to 
have initially granted the facility  although like the adjudicator I do have some reservations 
about the number of bank transfers. But I havent seen enough to say that SNC shouldnt 
have granted the facility. 
So, this decision will focus on whether SNC did enough to monitor Ms Ys facility whilst she 
held it and whether there was a point which SNC should have halted any further borrowing 
on it.
Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, I do think, like the 
adjudicator it was unfair for it to have allowed Ms Y to continue drawing down on the account 
from 21 August 2017.  This is because I think the way she was using the account indicated 
she wasnt using it in a sustainable manner. Ill explain below why I think this is the case.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Ms Ys use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC has a good indication of Ms Ys actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of her having the facility it had read-only access to her bank account. 
When the credit limit was increased further on this date, SNC had seen read only statements 
since the end of October 2016 and it had seen how Ms Y had used and managed the facility 
since it was granted in January 2017. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Ms Y to continue to drawdown, Ive 
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of 
those payments and then when Ms Y returned for further borrowing. 
After all, if Ms Y was drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from 
her account this ought to have indicated that SNC was causing her to once again borrow the 
funds that SNC had just taken. 
By monitoring the facility  as it was required to do, SNC wouldve realised that Ms Y would 
repay her facility in full, and then within a day or so, shed draw back up to her available 
credit limit. In addition to this, there are indicators, that Ms Y was having to borrow from SNC 
in order to meet her other commitments to other high cost credit providers for example the 
repayment to a high cost loan provider on 20 July 2017. But this pattern had been ongoing 
since the start of the lending relationship. 
At this time, I think SNC wouldve also seen that Ms Y was making repayments to a home 
credit provider and regular repayments to another high cost, short term credit provider. But 
importantly, as SNC had access to her bank statements, it wouldve seen that Ms Y was 
using the high cost short term loan provider in a similar manner to how she was using SNCs 
facility. Ms Y would repay the loan, and then very quickly take a new one, normally within a 
day or so. Which in my mind is another sign of possible financial difficulties.  
So when SNC further increased Ms Ys credit limit around 21 August 2017 Ms Y had 
demonstrated that she wasnt using the facility as SNC had intended, she was quickly 
borrowing down and repaying the facility in the same month, and therefore she wasnt 
benefiting from or making use of the interest free period of time. 
When considering all of the information SNC had available to it about Ms Ys circumstances 
along with the payments SNC was collecting each month, I think by 21 August 2017, it was 
clear that the facility had become unsustainable - and simply collecting the full outstanding 
balance on the account and then allowing Ms Y to once again borrow the funds that had 
been recently collected was detrimental to her financial situation. But instead of doing this 
SNC increased her credit limit. This meant that it would default to taking even larger 
payments from Ms Ys account thus leaving a greater hole in her finances.
Overall and having thought about everything I think that SNC shouldve proactively 
intervened and contacted Ms Y to arrange for her to repay what she owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 21 August 
2017.
B) Treat all payments Ms Y has made towards their account since 21 August 2017 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Ms Y wouldve been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms Y. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms Ys credit file 
from 21 August 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Ms Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ys complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Ms Y as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman