DRN-3978877
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) failed to downgrade his account 
to a fee-free account after hed asked Halifax to do so in 2018. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Ws complaint about his request to downgrade not 
being actioned, and she did not find in Mr Ws favour. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators 
assessment, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered all the 
information that is available, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Mr W has explained that he asked for his URCA to be downgraded to a fee-free account 
twice in 2018. He has provided copies of letters he says he sent in 2018. Having reviewed 
everything that is available, Ive not seen enough evidence to show that these letters were 
received by Halifax. So I think this is why the account was not downgraded. 
I note Mr Ws comments that in a different case we said Halifax providing a copy of a letter it 
sent him was sufficient and therefore him doing the same should also be sufficient. I should 
say I cannot comment on the other case, a final decision has been issued and that case has 
been resolved.
In relation to this case though, Halifax has electronic records of contact it receives from 
account holders these are called contact notes. Looking through the contact notes, Halifax 
has for Mr W, I can see that requests to update his address were recorded, as were other 
complaints that Mr W made, so I think its likely that a request to downgrade the account 
wouldve also been recorded, if it had been received.
I also believe that had the downgrade not happened after it was requested, Mr W wouldve 
queried this such as via phone earlier than he did. I note that Mr W said in his letters he 
would take a non-response from Halifax to his letter as Halifax saying that he could not 
downgrade his account. But I dont think that this is a reasonable assumption for anyone, let 
alone Mr W, to have made in such circumstances and I wouldve have expected him to at 
least query what was happening with the downgrade in the years that followed his request, if 
he was unhappy continuing to be charged a monthly fee for his account. 
As such, based on everything I have seen, Im not able to say that Halifax did receive a 
request to downgrade the account around 2018. And as I cant say that Halifax has done 
anything wrong, I dont think it is reasonable to instruct Halifax to refund the account fees Mr 
W has paid since 2018.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman