DRN-4205520
The complaint
Mr E and Mr H complain about the interest, fees and charges that Nottingham Building 
Society (NBS) has applied to their mortgage. The basis of their complaint stems from an
audit that was carried out on their mortgage account, which concluded theyd been
overcharged.
What happened
In 2008, Mr E and Mr H took out a mortgage with NBS for £102,000. This was on a
repayment basis over a 15-year term and interest was initially charged at NBS Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR), which was 7.24% at the time  with part of the mortgage being on a 
discounted rate of 5.20% for the first seven months.
In 2011, Mr E and Mr H applied to make some changes to their mortgage. This included 
extending the term of their mortgage and switching to a fixed interest rate of 4.19% until 
31 January 2014. At which point the mortgage reverted to the SVR. 
In 2016, Mr E and Mr H switched their mortgage from the SVR to a fixed rate of 2.35% until 
31 August 2021.This is the rate of interest that applied until the mortgage was redeemed in 
around August 2017.
On 22 October 2018 a solicitors firm (who Ill refer to as A) made a complaint to NBS on 
behalf of Mr E and Mr H. An audit was carried out which concluded that NBS had not 
calculated the interest on the mortgage in line with the terms set out in the mortgage offer. It 
also concluded that fees were added to the mortgage which shouldnt have been. 
NBS asked for the calculations made to understand the reasons why A was alleging the 
interest on the mortgage was mis-calculated. NBS says this was not received so it didnt 
investigate the matter further.
A has since ceased trading. Mr E and Mr H referred the matter to this service in 2019 
independent of A. Theyve asked our service to investigate a complaint about miscalculated 
mortgage payments. 
NBS didnt give its consent for us to consider any of the complaint points relating to events 
that happened more than six years before the complaint was made. Our investigator looked 
into things and concluded that we could look into the complaint  but only about what had 
happened from 22 October 2012 onwards. When considering Mr E and Mr Hs complaint 
about being overcharged on their mortgage from October 2012 onwards, the investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr E and Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to consider the matter as they say they have been
overcharged for the entire term of the mortgage. An Ombudsman issued a decision setting 
out whether the case is one our service can consider  and the scope of any investigation.
The Ombudsman decided that:
Our service only has the power to consider how Mr E and Mr H have been treated, 
including the interest rate and fees theyve been charged on the mortgage, since 
October 2012.
In considering the fairness of interest charged from 2012, it will be necessary for us 
to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. This 
means that we will need to consider all the matters that contribute to and make up 
the interest charge added to the mortgage each month. And in turn that means 
considering the fairness of the interest rate used as the basis of the calculation. 
We need to look at the impact of what may or may not have contributed to those 
charges  including things that happened before that time which influenced the rate 
charged at that time.
But in the event that we find something unfair about what happened before 
October 2012, we can only consider its impact on the interest charged since then  
and therefore any redress we would award would only cover interest charged since 
October 2012. 
Mr E and Mr H remained unhappy with the outcome reached on the merits of their complaint. 
As such the case has now been passed to me to issue a final decision on the part of their 
complaint that has been made in time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into 
account the relevant law, regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my 
decision. 
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr E and Mr H, but I do hope the reasons I have set out below will help 
them to understand why I have come to this conclusion. I do also thank them for their 
patience as I know theyve been waiting a long time for an answer.
The interest applied to the account 
Mr E and Mr H have told us that they believe theyve been overcharged interest because of 
what the audit report showed them. The audit report does not make clear how its calculated 
that interest has been overcharged. 
Ive taken the fact the audit has assumed a reversionary margin of 2.09% (the difference 
between the Bank of England (BoE) base rate and NBS SVR) to mean NBS has varied its 
SVR unfairly  by not maintaining that margin during the mortgage term. So, it appears the 
audit suggests NBSs SVR ought to have tracked the BoE base rate with the margin stated.
The starting point here is that there is no general obligation on mortgage lenders for their 
SVRs to track the BoE base rate, and Im satisfied that this isnt the way NBS SVR 
operated.More generally, I dont think the concept of an SVR, or a variable reversion rate is a 
fundamentally unfair one. Its a common feature of the UK mortgage lending market. A 
reversion rate allows a lender to attract new customers with a preferential initial rate, while 
building in the flexibility a variable rate allows to manage its longer-term costs. Many 
borrowers treat the reversion point as an opportunity to shop around for another preferential 
rate  either with their existing lender or moving to another lender.
Ive considered whether there were any barriers to Mr E and Mr H exiting the mortgage. 
There was no ERC applicable to Mr E and Mr Hs mortgage whilst they were on the SVR. 
So, they were free to re-mortgage elsewhere without having to pay a charge to end the 
existing contract with NBS. Had Mr E and Mr H re-mortgaged elsewhere, they may have 
incurred some costs to switch to a new lender, but Im not persuaded this would be 
considered a significant barrier to exit, as any borrower would incur these costs if they 
decided to move to a new lender.
Ive reviewed the documentation from the point of sale, including the original Mortgage Offer 
dated September 2008 and the applicable Mortgage Conditions. Ive also reviewed the 
documentation available from the 2011 and 2016 product transfers. Having done so, I 
havent seen anything that says NBS would link the SVR to the BoE base rate or that 
compels it to. Nor is there anything that suggests that the SVR would be a particular margin 
above or below the BoE base rate.
It follows that Im not persuaded that there was any requirement for the SVR to track the BoE 
base rate or maintain any margin between them. That said Ive gone on to consider whether 
NBS has varied its SVR fairly in line with the Mortgage Conditions. And whether it follows 
that from 22 October 2012 onwards, Mr E and Mr H paid an unfairly high rate of interest.
NBS sets out its ability to vary its SVR in its Mortgages  General Conditions. This says the 
following, under:
2. Changing your variable rate of interest:
2.3 Except where your variable rate is the tracker mortgage rate or tracker variable rate, 
we can change your variable rate at any time if we reasonably believe that we need 
to make the change for one or more of the following reasons:
a because there has been or is expected to be a change in the Bank of Englands 
rate (called its repo rate) or in interest rates offered by our competitors in the 
mortgage market.
b to respond to changes to costs associated with providing the relevant product or 
service, including our administrative costs.
c to maintain our financial stability for the benefit of all our members, having proper 
regard to our status as a mutual society, or to comply with regulatory 
requirements.
d to enable us to maintain the competitiveness of interest rates paid to our 
investors, while having proper regard to the interests of our borrowing members, 
in the interests of our business as a whole.
e to enable us to harmonise, in a reasonable manner, the interest rates being paid 
by our borrowers following any acquisition or transfer of mortgages or any 
takeover of, or merger with, another mortgage provider.
f because of a change in law, a decision by a court, ombudsman, regulator or 
similar person, or to comply with any code or statement of practice which applies 
to us.If we increase the rate, the amount of the increase will not be greater than we reasonably 
believe is justified by the reason or reasons for making the change.
I think the reasons listed in the terms and conditions that NBS may vary the interest rate may 
be considered broad and open to interpretation. It follows that there is a possible lack of 
transparency of when a particular term would be engaged.
But even if the terms are considered to be unfair, that wouldnt necessarily mean that there 
has been unfairness. Under our rules I am required to consider what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. That includes, but is not limited to, relevant law  specifically the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).
So, Ive also thought more broadly about whether the way in which the terms have been 
used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr E and Mr H in the interest charged to them from 
2012. In doing so, Ive considered the historic context which may have contributed to the 
interest rate charges from 2012 onwards and whether NBS had legitimate reasons for 
varying the rate in the way it did.
When Mr E and Mr H took out their mortgage in late 2008, the margin between the BoE base 
rate was 2.24%. By 2009, the difference (or margin) between the BoE base rate and NBS 
SVR increased to 5.49%. Whilst NBS SVR did reduce during this period, it didnt fall by the 
same proportion as the reduction in the BoE base rate.
The changes to the margin largely occurred between 2008 and 2009. This period was a time 
of significant change in the wider market as a result of the global financial crisis. This 
impacted on the funding costs of businesses  which are not generally tied to the BoE base 
rate  and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across 
the market at the time.
NBS has said it thinks it acted fairly and in line with clause 2.3(a) of the general conditions,
along with giving consideration to clauses 2.3(c) and 2.3(d). Its explained that as a mutual
building society, it is required to balance the needs of its savers and borrowers.
NBS has explained it no longer holds any specific evidence about why it varied the SVR in
the way it did during the global financial crisis. I dont think thats unreasonable due to the 
passage of time that has passed. I have considered the information NBS has been able to 
provide alongside what I understand about what was happening to the wider market at the 
time, and I have consulted analysis from other sources such as the BoE and the FCA.
During this period, there was a significant change in the wider lending market as a result of 
the global financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of businesses, which was 
reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the market at that 
time. Considering this, I dont think NBS has acted unreasonably by not passing on all of the 
reductions in the BoE base rate to its SVR.  
On balance, Im satisfied NBS acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of
the mortgage in varying the SVR the way it did. Whilst the reductions during this period didnt 
mirror reductions to the base rate, I dont think the terms or general requirements of fairness 
obliged NBS to make the reductions in that particular way. And I dont think, taking into 
account all the circumstances in the round, that these changes resulted in unfair treatment 
for Mr E and Mr H or that NBS acted in a way other than to protect its legitimate interests.
In 2015, NBS reduced its SVR outside of any BoE base rate changes and from then  until 
2017 when the mortgage was redeemed, a margin of 5.24% was maintained, with any 
changes to the SVR during that time being made soon after changes were made to the BoE base rate and by the same amount. These changes were permitted under the terms of the 
contract, and I consider theyve been made fairly.
Considering everything, Im not satisfied that NBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances.
The fees and charges applied to the account 
Ive explained that our service can only consider the fees and charges applied to the 
mortgage from 22 October 2012 onwards. So, any of the fees mentioned in the audit that 
pre-date this, fall outside the remit of this decision. 
The audit states that some fees applied during this period (Unpaid Direct Debit charge, 
Financial Counselling and the charge for a Solicitors Letter) have been overcharged as they 
are disproportionate to the actual cost to the lender of applying them. The audit also said the 
regulator had fined some lenders for charging excessive fees in 2010. The audit also goes 
on to say that a charge in relation to contact about payments is unwarranted on the basis 
that its unclear what specifically that charge relates to. 
Ive considered the fees that have been applied to Mr E and Mr Hs mortgage over the term,
and Ive not found them to be excessive or disproportionate. NBS was not one of the lenders 
fined by the FCA 2010, and so the regulators findings highlighted in the audit are not 
relevant to the charges applied to Mr E and Mr Hs mortgage.
Im satisfied the fees and charges that NBS has applied have been set out clearly in its tariff 
of charges documents, and also on Mr E and Mr Hs mortgage statements. NBS charges 
are not out of line with those charged by other similar lenders in the market and based on 
the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded theyre disproportionate.
Summary
I appreciate the audit findings have led Mr E and Mr H to believe they should expect a large
refund from NBS. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr E and Mr H, but I havent 
seen anything to suggest NBS has overcharged them in the way the audit claims. As a 
result, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman