DRN-4097406
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
(Hitachi) unfairly turned down his claims made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
In March 2020, Mr L along with his wife bought membership points from a timeshare 
provider which I will call C, enabling them to exchange those points for holiday 
accommodation. The points cost £8,080 and Mr L paid for this with a loan from Hitachi. This 
complaint is made by Mr L as the sole borrower and for simplicity I will refer to him as the 
purchaser. 
In January 2022 Mr L made a claim to Hitachi using a professional representative (AS). In 
summary, the basis of the claim was as follows:
There were misrepresentations made about the timeshare and loan that Hitachi were 
jointly liable for under s.75 CCA. These misrepresentations included that Mr L had 
been told he was acquiring an investment which could be sold for a profit. It said that 
Mr L believed he could access the apartment at any time and he would own a share 
in property.
There were unfair terms in the timeshare agreement and breaches of consumer 
protection legislation during the sale, that meant the debtor-creditor-relationship 
between Mr L and Hitachi was also unfair as per s.140A CCA. Further, the whole 
transaction was illegal as the timeshare was sold as an investment in contravention 
of both European and UK law.
At the time of the sale, the timeshare provider was not authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to broker loans. This meant there was a breach of s.27 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and the loan was 
unenforceable.
C had not carried out proper affordability checks.
The timeshare provider was now in liquidation, so Mr L was unable to recover any 
amounts he may be awarded by a Spanish court.
To put things right, Mr L asked for a refund of everything paid under the loan agreement plus 
interest.
Hitachi responded to the claim. It didnt consider the claims under s. 75 or s. 140 A CCA had 
any merit and rejected the assertion that the facts were identical to the court decision in Link 
Financial Ltd v Wilson. It did not consider there had been an unfair relationship. The 
documents showed the primary purpose of the agreement was for the provision of holiday 
accommodation. It was made clear that Mr L was not acquiring property or a share in 
property. 
Hitachi also said that the voluntary administration had not adversely affected Mr Ls use of 
the product. 
It said the broker, which was one of Cs companies, was licensed and so there had been no 
breach of the rules. It also detailed the checks it caried out into the affordability of the 
product and said its decision to lend had been responsible.
Cs companies held the relevant licence when brokering finance. Hitachi also treated the 
claim as a complaint, so it said that if Mr L wasnt happy with its response, he could bring a 
claim to our service, which he did.
One of our investigators issued a view on Mr Ls complaint, saying that he did not think 
Hitachi needed to do anything further. In summary, he said:
There was little or no evidence as to what was said during the sales process and he 
didnt consider there was sufficient evidence to show misrepresentation.
Little detail was given as to the claim of lack of checks about the affordability of the 
loan and she could see no basis for upholding this element of the complaint.
AS responded on Mr Ls behalf. It said it had concerns about the way the timeshare had 
been sold and how credit had been provided. It supplied a copy of a training manual used by 
C. 
AS also said that in the Link case the High Court had concluded that the contract term which 
allowed a capital asset to be forfeited if management fees were not paid was unfair.
It said our investigator had not properly addressed the issue of the broker being 
unauthorised. It argued that the brokers who worked for C were self-employed and they 
were not individually registered. Nor had they carried out proper affordability checks. Finally, 
it added that Mr L had not been told of any commission paid to the broker.
Hitachi said the claims made by AS were generic and had little relevance to the cases it 
pursued. It said the manual submitted wasnt for the product Mr L bought and he had not 
bought a property or rights to one but he had acquired points which could be used for 
holidays. It didnt consider there had been an unfair relationship. It reiterated that it had gone 
through its normal underwriting process and had carried out the appropriate checks. It said 
there was no truth in the claim that the sales representatives were self-employed. Finally, it 
noted that Mr L had been told about the payment of commission in the documents he 
signed.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.In this case, s. 75 of the CCA is relevant to the complaint, which says:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within s.12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect 
of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, 
who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
This means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr L paid for goods or services using certain 
types of credit (even in part), and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of those goods or services, the creditor can also be held responsible.
The key issue I need to decide in this case is whether Hitachis decision to decline the s. 75 
claim was fair. To decide this, I must consider whether Mr Ls claim meets the requirements 
of s. 75, as set out by the CCA. These criteria include the following points:
(a) There must be the required relationship between the debtor, creditor, and supplier;
and
(b) There must be a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the supplier.
Unless the above criteria are met in the circumstances of this case, I wouldnt consider 
Hitachi to have acted unfairly when refusing Mr Ls claim. Ill consider each of these points in 
turn. I note that there is no dispute that the required debtor, creditor, supplier agreement is 
intact.
S. 75: Misrepresentation
Mr L complains that the timeshare was misrepresented on a number of grounds as set out 
above. 
In summary, from what AS has told us, I understand Mr L feels the product was 
misrepresented to him by the seller because he was told these were investments and there 
was sufficient availability of accommodation.
Ive considered the common law position, as well as the Misrepresentation Act 1967 when 
deciding whether a misrepresentation is most likely to have been made in the circumstances 
of this case. For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation on the part of the supplier in 
the way Mr L has alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the 
available evidence, that the supplier made a false statement of fact when selling the holiday 
products in 2020. In other words, that they told Mr L something that wasnt true in relation to 
one or more of the points they have raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the 
misrepresentation was material in inducing Mr L to enter the contract. This means I would 
need to be persuaded that Mr L reasonably relied on the false statement when deciding to 
buy the holidays.
The claim is based on what Mr L apparently told AS about what they were told at the 
meeting when he made the purchase. I am aware such meetings can last for a number of 
hours and the agents for C can be very persuasive. I recognise they will emphasise the 
positive benefits of memberships and the access to accommodation. That of itself does not 
demonstrate that statements were made which might amount to misrepresentation.
The documentation I have seen clearly refers to the products not being investments and 
while they might be seen as investments in future holidays there is nothing I have seen that 
shows they were sold as financial investments. Nor does the paperwork refer to the ability to sell the membership points back. Nor does it indicate that Mr L would own a property or a 
share in property. None of the documentation supports the claim of misrepresentation. 
Quite simply I have seen little or no evidence of misrepresentation. The claim is based on 
assertions made by AS with no testimony provided by Mr L.
S. 75: Breach of contract
As I understand it Mr L made his purchase after one of Cs companies went into 
administration. As such it is difficult to conclude that there has been an actionable breach of 
contract. I would need to be convinced that that timeshare product he acquired was no 
longer available to him following the management company ceasing operations. In this case 
I understand that the holiday products Mr L acquired were available to him after the 
liquidation with the facilities being run by a new management company. Therefore, I do not 
find I can say that the liquidation of the company prior to his purchase of the points has 
resulted in Mr L not benefiting from the terms of his purchase agreement.
Because of this I do not uphold this part of his complaint.
S. 140A claims
Under s.140A and s.140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to consider 
whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate 
orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and 
refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any related agreement. Whilst the position is not entirely clear, its likely that the 
sale agreement was a related agreement here.
The Limitation Act applies to a claim under s.140A. Im satisfied the relevant limitation period 
is six years and time starts to run from the date the credit agreement ended - if it was not still 
running when the claim was made. I consider the claim under s. 140A to be in date.
AS says too that the payment of commission should have been disclosed to Mr L. There is 
however no suggestion that it was important to him, or that it would have made any 
difference to his decision to purchase. As I understand it the sums of commission paid were 
not such that they would give rise to an unfair relationship. 
I have seen nothing to indicate that the points were sold as an investment. The Members 
Declaration contains the following: We understand that the purchase of our membership in 
Vacation Club is for the primary purpose of holidays and is not for the purpose of real estate 
interest or an investment in real estate and, that CLC make no representation as to the 
future price or value of the Vacation Club product. It follows that I cannot conclude that the 
product was old as an investment.
AS asserts that the Court decision in the Link Financial case applies to Mr Ls complaint. It 
involved a term whereby the supplier of the timeshare will extinguish the consumers rights 
in the timeshare for non-payment of commission. The court in that case found the term to be 
unfair. 
However, it must be noted that the judge said that: In considering the fairness of the 
relationship, it is necessary to consider all other relevant matters, and (amongst other 
things), these necessarily include how the clause has been operated in practice. As I 
understand it C has not sought to extinguish Mr Ls rights and I dont see that in those circumstances I can conclude there was an unfair relationship.
The contract is not as clear cut as one might wish to see. However, I gather the position was 
clarified in December 2015, when Cs articles were amended. And as a result Im persuaded 
that a membership can be suspended but fees will not continue to accrue. That appears to 
be the position here, so I dont think, in the circumstances that its likely that a Court would 
find there to be an unfair debtor creditor relationship as a result of this.
Overall, I see no reason why I should conclude that Hitachi was wrong to reject the claim 
under s. 140. 
Were the right affordability checks carried out at the time of sale?
AS has suggested that proper checks being carried out at the time of sale and AS says this 
means the lending was irresponsible. I have seen no evidence that Mr L found the loan 
unaffordable. Hitachi has set out the checks it carried out and I can see no grounds to reach 
a conclusion that these were not appropriate. 
When considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is whether 
the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So, if 
Hitachi did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), for me to say it needed 
to do something to put things right, I would need to see that Mr L lost out as a result of its 
failings. Mr L has provided no evidence whatsoever that he would have found it difficult to 
repay the loan, so I do not need to consider this point further.
Brokers Authorisation
AS has asserted that the brokers were self-employed and were not authorised. However, it 
has provided no evidence in support of that assertion. Hitachi has rebutted it and has 
obtained confirmation from C that it was properly authorised and that the brokers were both 
employed and properly trained. As such I do not consider I can uphold that element of the 
complaint.
Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr L may have against 
D or Hitachi is merited. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded there are 
sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think Hitachi has 
treated Mr L unfairly or acted unreasonably so I cant properly require it to compensate him 
or do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my 
decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman