DRN-3505057
The complaint
Mr A complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund him for a cash withdrawal 
where he said the machine didnt dispense the money.
What happened
On 7 November 2021. Mr A went to use a cash machine at a petrol station. He wanted to 
withdraw £160, and put his card in. He said the machine screen then displayed a message 
that there werent sufficient funds and there was no cash available to dispense. The machine 
returned his card, and Mr A waited some time but neither cash nor a receipt was dispensed. 
As Mr A was returning to his car, another customer came out of the petrol station and told Mr 
A that the cash machine was playing up.
Mr A checked his account, which showed that £160 had been debited. He rang the number 
on the cash machine, where he was redirected to Lloyds.
Mr A had trouble getting through to Lloyds, being on hold and then being disconnected four 
times before getting through on the fifth attempt. The adviser gave Mr A a conditional £160 
refund, pending investigation. 
But on 16 December Lloyds re-debited the £160. In its final response to Mr As complaint, it 
said that it had contacted the cash machine owner, and theyd provided proof to show that 
the transaction had been processed and successful. It said the machine log had shown that 
the cash was dispensed without error, and was taken from the machine. And it said the cash 
machine owner had also said that the machine had balanced, with all the transactions that 
had taken place.  
Mr A wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He said that if the machine hadnt dispensed 
Mr As money, the records of the machine would have evidenced that, and  there would have 
been £160 more in the machine than there should have been. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said no money had come out, and he was really unhappy with events 
and the outcome. He said he was sure CCTV would be available, unless it had been wiped. 
The investigator explained that there wouldnt be any CCTV, as the machine wasnt a Lloyds 
machine and no crime had been reported. 
Mr A was still very unhappy. He said there was another person there who also said the 
machine wasnt working. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Lloyds for more technical information about the machine records here. In particular, I 
asked for:
- a copy of the confirmation evidence that the machine balanced;
- any confirmation from the machine owner that there had been no other reports of 
problems with the machine around 7 November 2021; and 
- I noted that there had been some odd transactions on the cash machine record just 
before Mr As attempted transaction. There were quite a few entries amount 
requested £0.  And although these might be balance checks, there were also some 
really small amounts requested, such as £2.50, £2, £0.50 and £1.20. Cash machines 
dont dispense this sort of small sum. I asked Lloyds for its comments.
Lloyds sent some limited information in response. 
There are regulations about payments, and here, whats relevant is Section 75 of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. This says that 
 75.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided by 
the payment service provider.
I considered Mr As case in the light of what the Regulations say  which is that Lloyds, as 
the payment service provider, has to provide evidence of the matters quoted in the 
Regulations. While Lloyds provided some, limited, evidence here, in my view that wasnt 
enough to show that its met the above standard. Much of what Lloyds relied on here was 
commentary from the cash machine provider, rather than objective evidence to demonstrate 
that the transaction was correctly carried out and recorded here.
So I then thought about what Mr A says about what happened here. He reported the issue 
quickly, as Id expect someone with a genuine issue to have. And in his dealings with Lloyds 
he sounded clear and consistent about what happened here. I noted that he mentioned that 
someone said that there were issues with the machine on the day of the transactions. And 
some of the evidence here could be seen to bear that out - in particular the repeated 
attempts for small transactions that an ATM wouldnt be able to dispense.
Lloyds said that these attempts might have been made because there was no cost to a user 
doing so. But I didnt think that explanation was backed up with sufficient evidence though. 
Its an unusual anomaly in records like this, which suggested something unusual happening 
with (or to) the machine. So in the circumstances, I thought that on the basis Ive explained, 
it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to refund Mr A the £160 in dispute here. 
I explained that as with any provisional decision, both sides could provide additional 
arguments and evidence by the date stated. So the final decision might or might not be 
different from the provisional decision.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A set out again what had happened. He said he appreciated this services efforts dealing 
with the matter but what he had said had been the honest truth, and he was disappointed 
both with Lloyds and the petrol station owner.
Lloyds accepted the provisional decision. It also agreed to pay interest on the disputed £160.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments, and in the light of the 
response to the provisional decision, I consider that my provisional decision was fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I order Lloyds Bank plc to pay Mr A:
- £160 for the disputed cash machine transaction; and 
- 8% interest on the £160 from the date of the transaction, 7 November 2021, to the 
date when Lloyds pays it to Mr A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman