DRN-2812318
The complaint
 Mr W complained because National Westminster Bank Plc allowed a fraudster to open two 
accounts in his name. 
He wants NatWest to tighten its security procedures, issue him with a full apology, and pay 
him more compensation.
 
What happened
On 22 January 2020, two internet account applications were made using Mr Ws name and 
address. The applications were credit checked, and passed, so the accounts were opened. 
Mr W was sent new bank account letters, bank cards and PIN numbers, and letters saying 
NatWest hadnt been able to contact him through what was a fake email address. He 
contacted NatWest, which asked Mr W to go into the branch with the letters and his 
passport. It paid him £30, and closed the accounts.
Mr W complained to NatWest. He said the bank had held his personal details for many 
years, so it should have been immediately apparent that the details didnt match. This 
included the wrong date of birth and wrong email address. He said it was obvious NatWest 
hadnt carried out the most basic and simplest of checks by cross-referencing with data it 
already held. 
NatWest said it hadnt made an error. It said someone had used Mr Ws personal information 
which it had gained from outside the bank, and that was how the applications had been 
made. It said that when an online application is submitted, the system carries out a credit 
check. As this had been successful, the accounts had been opened. 
NatWest also said that it couldnt prevent third parties from applying for accounts 
fraudulently. It said that when an application for a new account is received, it reviewed 
certain details. It said it understood Mr W felt it should have cross-referenced the 
applications against his genuine accounts. But there had been enough details for a credit 
check, so the applications had been successful. NatWest paid Mr W a further £50 as an 
apology for not having provided good service when Mr W had contacted the bank.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said his main complaint was that 
NatWest allowed some of his personal information, which it held, to be used fraudulently, 
and it hadnt carried out normal security checks. The incorrect date of birth and email 
address should have alerted them. Mr W pointed out that he had to provide a lot of security 
information when he wanted to talk to his bank. He believed NatWests security checks and 
systems were inadequate as someone had opened two accounts using bogus details.
Our investigator contacted NatWest. Following this, NatWest offered Mr W a further £120 
compensation, making a total of £200 with the £80 it had already paid him. 
The investigator put NatWests offer to Mr W. Mr W said that a total of £200 wasnt enough, 
and that NatWest ought to be penalised more than this. The investigator explained that this 
service isnt able to punish a business, because thats the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). And she explained that while checks should have been carried out, 
were not told what they are, because this is commercially sensitive. Mr C said he wanted 
£2,000 and an apology.
NatWest was willing to write an apology, but refused to increase the compensation from a 
total of £200 to a total of £2,000. The investigator considered £200 plus the apology was fair. 
Mr W didnt agree. He wasnt happy with the apology letter NatWest had sent. He said he 
wanted £2,000 to penalise NatWest, and a thorough, detailed and truthful explanation about 
how it failed to protect his personal details, including a full apology and details about how it 
would carry out an enquiry to discover who had made the fraudulent applications. Mr Ws 
complaint was passed to me for an ombudsman decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 First, Ill set out what I can and cant look at.  
I do understand that its upsetting to have fraudulent activity involving ones personal details. 
I recognise that this would have been worrying, and that it also caused inconvenience to Mr 
W. The person ultimately responsible for this upset is of course the fraudster, and sadly 
theres little I can do to reduce the upset the fraudster has caused. This decision considers 
NatWests role.
I cant tell where or how the unknown fraudster obtained some of Mr Ws personal details. If 
Mr W considers that the data breach came from NatWest, he can contact the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) if he wishes to take this aspect further.
Similarly, this service isnt the regulator of banks. Thats the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and this service cant consider what procedures NatWest should or shouldnt have 
had in place in relation to fraud prevention. This includes the exact details of NatWests 
security checks for new account opening, which arent shared with this service. It also 
includes what measures a financial organisation takes to track down fraudsters. Similarly, 
when we award compensation, we cant do so on the basis of penalising a financial 
organisation  that, too, is the role of the FCA.
I realise that Mr W wants all of these factors to be taken into consideration, but I cant do so 
when these are roles belonging to other organisations. What I can consider is whether 
NatWest acted fairly toward Mr W in the other aspects of his complaint, and what it should 
do to put things right.
Having done so, I agree that the original compensation of £80 wasnt sufficient, and I uphold 
Mr Ws complaint. Mr W was understandably shocked and upset by what happened. He also 
had the inconvenience of having to go to a branch, and make a number of phone calls. I 
consider that a total of £200 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Ive also borne in mind that NatWest has recorded a CIFAS preventative marker for Mr W. 
CIFAS is a fraud prevention service, and one of the services it offers is a preventative 
marker for individuals. This places a marker against Mr Ws details. Organisations which are members of CIFAS should then take extra care, which should offer peace of mind and a 
reduced likelihood of future fraud against Mr W.
Finally, I understand that Mr W was unhappy with the letter which NatWest sent him as an 
apology. Im sorry to hear this, but we wouldnt get involved with the exact wording of a letter 
of apology.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I order National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr W a total of £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. With the £80 already paid, this leaves £120 still to pay.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman