DRN-4185123
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Next Retail Limited irresponsibly provided her with, and increased the 
credit limit on, a credit account.
What happened
Mrs T opened a credit account with Next in November 2013, with an initial credit limit of 
£150. Subsequently the limit was increased/decreased as follows:
Date Credit limit
November 2013 £150 initial limit
January 2014 £250
May 2014 £300
June 2014 £750
August 2014 £1,500
May 2015 £2,500
September 2015 £3,000
November 2015 £3,600
July 2016 £5,000
August 2016 (decrease) £3,600
September 2016 suspended
June 2017 £3,000 reinstated
February 2018 £3,750
Mrs T complained to Next in March 2022 that it should never have opened the account. She 
had a lot of defaults on credit accounts at the time. She has been living on benefits since the 
account was opened. She had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) registered against her in 
July 2015, but the limit was increased several times after that. She has supplied copies of 
her bank statements dating back to the time the account was opened.
Next said it carried out a review with a credit reference agency (CRA) when the application 
was made. The review takes into consideration the customer's overall credit commitment 
with other lenders and how they manage their payments to them. This is alongside its own 
internal criteria. The information is updated on a monthly basis and is used when applying a 
credit limit rise. As the account was over six years old when Mrs T made her complaint, Next 
was unable to supply any records of the checks it did prior to January 2016 (save as Ive set 
out below)..
It offered an increase to £5,000 in June 2016, which Mrs T accepted online. However due to 
a change in the data received from the CRA, the limit was decreased back to £3,600.00 in 
August 2016, and later placed on a temporary hold in September 2016. The credit hold 
remained in place for 9 months, until it was able to reinstate the limit. It applied a further 
increase to £3,750 in February 2018 due to improved data received from the CRA. The limit 
has remained at that level. At the time of making her complaint Mrs T had managed the 
account well, making more than the minimum payment each month.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our Adjudicator said that Next acted reasonably in 
approving Mrs Ts original application, and in applying increases in the credit limit. This was 
taking into account the evidence shown on Mrs Ts bank statements and the data supplied 
by Next in respect of the later increases in the limit. He noted that Mrs T did have a CCJ 
dating back to July 2015, but that this didnt appear on any credit check carried out by Next, 
so it couldnt have been expected to know about it.
Mrs T didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. The matter has been passed to 
me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken that approach into account in considering Mrs Ts complaint. 
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and 
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower 
to check whether theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the 
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Next complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs T would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs T would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application or proposed increase 
in the credit limit, was there a point where Next ought reasonably to have realised it was 
increasing Mrs Ts indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful 
and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
Unfortunately, I cant check Nexts records for the original application, nor for any increases 
in the credit limit prior to January 2016 as no records have been provided for me to see. I do 
not consider that unreasonable as Next isnt required to keep any such records beyond six 
years. 
I have seen Mrs Ts bank account statements which I have reviewed. They give me a 
general idea as to how Mrs T managed her finances. 
I can see from those statements that Mrs T kept her account in credit and didnt appear to 
have any payments to credit debts or loans up to the last increase in the credit limit. She has 
explained to us that she transferred a certain amount each month to her husband to meet 
various utility bills. The statements show that she kept up a regular payment to Next. Its only 
in recent years, some time after the last increase in the credit limit, that Mrs Ts bank 
account shows she has had more difficulty with her finances.
Large increases in the credit limit were applied in May 2015, and again in July 2016. I think 
as well as carrying out its regular checks, Next should have considered at that stage in more 
detail Mrs Ts income and expenditure. But as her bank account wasnt overdrawn I dont 
think this would have necessitated looking at bank statements. However from the bank 
statements, even if Next had seen these I dont think they would have shown the increases 
to be unaffordable. Ive noted that the July 2016 credit limit increase was cancelled the next 
month due to the data Next received.
As for the CCJ, normally I would expect this to show on any credit check carried out by the 
main CRAs. Next has obtained data from the CRA it used to show that Mrs Ts credit score 
was good at the time and that the CCJ doesnt appear on her record. Ive noted that from 
about June 2016 onwards a payment is shown in Mrs Ts account to a legal firm, though this 
wouldnt necessarily be regarded as being for a CCJ, even if Next had seen the statements 
at the time. So I dont think that Next is culpable for not being aware of the CCJ.
So I think that Next made fair lending decisions in respect of approving the credit account 
and giving Mrs T the increases and decrease in the credit limit. I note that Mrs T would like 
Next to close the account so she cant get into further debt. I would recommend that she to 
get in touch with Next directly if she wants it to do this, and to arrange a payment plan. 
However as Ive not upheld the complaint I cant require Next to take any action.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman