DRN-2530905
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs B have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt keep to its word about 
how they were to be repatriated home under their travel policy following Mr B fracturing his 
shoulder in a skiing accident. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took a ferry and drove to their European ski resort for a holiday in January 
2020. Sadly, Mr B had a skiing accident and sustained a humeral neck fracture at the top 
near his shoulder.  His treating doctor abroad said he needed a medical review in his home 
country within five days.
Mr and Mrs B believed that AXA gave them authority to hire a driver to drive them and their 
car home. AXA said as this was outside the policy terms it wasnt covered. It said it would 
have flown them home and so it agreed to pay them the £700 it said it would have cost to fly 
them home towards their costs of hiring a driver. 
Mr and Mrs B were adamant they had been given authority to hire the driver. So, they 
brought their complaint to us. The investigator felt AXA didnt need to reimburse Mr and Mrs 
Bs driver hire costs, but he felt it hadnt handled their claim well and said it should pay them 
£150 compensation. AXA agreed with the investigators view, but Mr and Mrs B didnt. 
So, their complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator for 
compensation only. Ill now explain why.
 
First, I do understand and appreciate that Mr and Mrs B will be very disappointed with my 
decision, however my role and that of this service is to assess whether AXA did anything 
wrong as regards the terms and conditions of the policy, under which Mr and Mrs Bs claim 
was assessed. 
I have gone through AXAs assistance file carefully and from the outset the 
contemporaneous notes of contact with Mr and Mrs B follows logically. It also should be 
noted, this is done on a claims system so that ensures what was written at the time, was 
indeed what was written at the time. So even despite the loss of the two call recordings, the 
thoughts and ideas concerning Mr and Mrs Bs repatriation home seems clear to me.
Theres clear evidence that quite understandably Mr and Mrs B were very distressed by the 
extent of Mr Bs shoulder injury and the need for him to be seen by a surgeon at home given 
what the treating doctor at the ski resort said.  However, from the outset the problem with the 
car was raised by Mrs B. The car isnt covered by this policy which means AXA is under no 
duty to deal with it at all. Theres also a note that Mrs B said the motor insurer didnt cover 
the transport of the car back home either. 
So, looking these contact notes, the claim was made on 13 January for curtailment of the 
holiday so Mr B could be treated back home. On the 14 January the medical report had been 
received by AXA to be reviewed by the medical team. Whilst a shoulder injury is 
exceptionally painful, theres no evidence before me on AXAs file detailing that Mr B couldnt 
fly from a medical perspective with assistance. I note the amended report from the doctor but 
given the injury sustained, Im not satisfied this explains how flying with assistance couldnt 
be undertaken, since it talks of Mr B not being able to deal with luggage. With assistance Mr 
B wouldnt have had to deal with any luggage. 
Also, on 14 January Mrs B said she couldnt drive and obviously now Mr B couldnt drive. By 
15 January there is a call with Mrs B at 8.19 where its said Mrs B is very stressed and talked 
for two minutes without stopping explaining there were no flights to where they lived, and 
given the car is with them, a driver needs to be arranged to get the car, Mr B and herself 
back home. AXA said if there were no flights, it would look into arranging a ground 
ambulance to get Mr B home. Mrs B then said she didnt know what to do with the car, but 
that AXA are their insurers and so therefore AXA needed to arrange all that. The adviser 
explained that maybe the motor insurers can arrange to pick up the car, but that AXA cant 
cover it. Mrs B explained she felt they were in a very unusual situation given her husband 
needed treatment and that consequently AXA needed to deal with this unusual situation. 
Later, on 15 January the manager phoned Mrs B. Mrs B asked if she could arrange a driver 
to take the car and herself and Mr B home. AXA explained it didnt provide this service. The 
car was their responsibility as AXAs focus was Mr B. Mrs B stressed Mr B needed to get 
treatment at home soon. She then questioned about her just making the arrangements 
herself. AXA said it wouldnt be responsible for any issues. However, it asked Mrs B to leave 
it with them.
AXA then phoned Mrs B back and said it had found flights, whereupon Mrs B said she 
wasnt accepting any flight. So, a ground ambulance was offered. Mrs B then said she 
wanted to do it herself. AXA said she could do, but if something happens on the trip Mr and 
Mrs B are liable for the costs. Mrs B wanted an email on this and then started shouting 
because she saw (on line I assume) that there was no available on the ferry she would need 
to take anymore. She then blamed AXA. AXA said it would call the ferry company and see 
what they say. AXA called back and said there was availability on the ferry, but the weather 
wasnt so good meaning the ferry could be cancelled. AXA said the medical team will call 
Mrs B and see what best option is. Mrs B wanted AXA to arrange a driver to drive the car 
and if the ferry was cancelled then that driver could drive to the nearest airport for a flight.
The AXA adviser said she would need to speak others about this including the medical team. 
Still on 15 January, there is a file following on from the above telephone note. This confirms 
that the car repatriation is not the responsibility of AXA. A ground ambulance will take at 
least 48 hours and will also rely on weather and ferry crossings which werent ideal then. 
There is a valid flight option which would get Mr and Mrs B back home by tomorrow 
afternoon. It confirms the priority is Mr B and to ensure his well-being. 
So, this file note instructs ops to offer Mr and Mrs B the repat flights and explain AXAs 
rationale. If they wish to proceed with the private driver thats fine but a private driver is not 
covered under this policy. The car is not required for the repat therefore we will not incur 
any extra costs for this. Its likely if they organise the driver, they may be able to claim back 
the cost up to what we would have paid for the repat flights, but this will need to be discussed with claims. Please be firm and clear with pax that this is our recommendation 
and the case has already been escalated. 
Following this file note, the file Mrs B called wanting email confirmation. Before the adviser 
called back, the file notes state she spoke to the underwriter to confirm the stance. And it 
was said AXA could offer a family member or friend to fly from the UK to drive the car back 
as an exception to the policy. However, the private driver cost wasnt covered. And it was 
agreed the Mr and Mrs B could claim up to the amount AXA would have paid to repat them 
home but not the full cost of the chauffeur.
And we end up with the call on 15 January at 16.32 which is the subject matter of this 
complaint, where it transpires on the back of previous conversations that day Mr and Mrs B 
booked the driver, however AXA wouldnt cover this this as part of their claim, merely up the 
cost it would have cost AXA to repatriate Mr and Mrs B. The adviser with whom Mr and Mrs 
B say confirmed the cost of the driver would be covered, is noted on the file as confirming he 
said it was always limited in costs as to what AXA would have paid to repatriate them itself.
I consider it is unfortunate the call recordings cant be found. But on balance given issues 
with cars like this are never normally covered under any travel policy, (and these issues with 
cars do crop up regularly in travel claims, so are not unusual at all) I dont consider it likely 
on balance, this was agreed in the manner Mr and Mrs B decided it was. Im off the view 
from the outset the car was a big worry for Mr and Mrs B, and I can understand why they 
thought hiring a driver made sense given where they live, but I dont consider that AXA was 
wrong not to cover it. Theres no policy term that requires them to do so.
 
I do think AXA could have been a little more proactive given the medical evidence which was 
that essentially Mr Bs shoulder fracture wasnt being treated and that he needed treatment 
and/or surgery at home. Its clear from the correspondence and recorded call recordings Mrs 
B was very distressed. The loss of the two calls greatly added to both Mr and Mrs Bs 
distress too and would have clarified exactly what was said at the time. However, I stress, 
from the file notes confirmation that AXA would cover the entire cost was not noted at any 
stage, it was noted it was discussed but not noted it was confirmed.
So, I think its reasonable AXA has offered Mr and Mr B the sum of £700 which would have 
been the cost to it to fly them home, and I also think its right AXA should pay them some 
compensation. I consider the £150 suggested by the investigator to be similar what I have 
awarded had he not suggested it in the first place. 
 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint for compensation 
only.
I now require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B the sum of £150 compensation 
and if it already hasnt done so, pay the £700 pounds it offered towards the costs of the 
driver.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman