DRN-2582090
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc gave her wrong information when she tried to 
make a change to her car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A had a Sainsburys Bank car insurance policy, underwritten by a third party insurer 
(referred to here as M). 
In April 2020, Mrs A was involved in a car accident. She made a claim to M and her car was 
written off. She bought a new car and in June 2020 contacted Sainsburys Bank to try to 
move her new car onto her existing policy with M.
She made two calls to Sainsburys Bank on 4 June 2020. The first call handler told her it 
wasnt possible to add her new car to the policy. She told Mrs A Sainsburys Bank would 
waive the cancellation fee if she wanted to shop around and find a new insurer. Mrs A called 
back later the same day, and a second c all handler told her that she was liable for her 
remaining policy premium with M.
Mrs A was unhappy that she was initially told she could cancel her policy with M at no further 
cost and complained about this. Sainsburys Bank said Mrs As policy made it clear that she 
had to pay the full years premium if she made a claim. It also said it couldnt influence Ms 
decision not to add Mrs As new car onto her existing policy. It said its offer to waive the £50 
cancellation fee was fair.
Mrs A didnt accept this so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs As complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Sainsburys Banks first call handler should have told Mrs A that she was liable for the full 
years premium with M. He also thought Sainsburys Bank should have called M to find out 
why it wouldnt cover her new car. He recommended that it pay Mrs A £50 to reflect the 
upset and inconvenience this caused her.
Sainsburys Bank disagreed with our investigator. It said its not part of its process to call an 
insurer and it hadnt done anything wrong. The case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point to make is that Sainsburys Bank was acting as broker, not insurer. So it was 
right to tell Mrs A that it didnt have any influence or control over Ms underwriting 
decisions. So if M wouldnt cover Mrs As new car, that isnt Sainsburys Banks fault.
Mrs A is unhappy that she was asked to pay her outstanding premium. Again, that isnt 
Sainsburys Banks decision  its Ms. But, generally, if a car is declared a total loss during 
the policy year, the policyholder must pay the full premium for that year. Thats because the 
policyholder has effectively 'used' their policy when the insurer pays a claim.
Thats what Sainsburys Bank was saying when it quoted Mrs As policy in its 7 August 2020 
letter: We wont refund any premium if you have made a claim or if one has been made 
against you during the period of insurance. If you have made a claim, or one has been made 
against you, the balance of the years premium will be payable.
But Mrs A complained about the information Sainsburys Bank gave her about her policy. 
Thats something Sainsburys Bank is responsible for. 
Ive listened to the two phone calls Mrs A made to Sainsburys Bank on 4 June 2020:
Call 1. The call handler tried to add Mrs As new car onto her existing policy with M. 
However, she found that this wasnt possible. The call handler told Mrs A: 
If you were to go elsewhere and get alternative insurance for the new vehicle this 
policy could be cancelled down without any cancellation fee. So it might be 
worthwhile having a look around to see what else you can get thats cheaper than 
what youve been quoted by us and giving us a call back and saying, I want to 
cancel this policy Once youve sorted something out for the new one, give us a call 
back and well cancel this one off with no fees for you.
Call 2. Mrs A called back to cancel her policy with M. The call handler explained that 
Sainsburys Bank would waive the £50 cancellation fee, but Mrs A would still be liable 
for her outstanding policy premium. The call handler calculated this premium as £370 
and told Mrs A she could pay this off in instalments.Im satisfied that the first call handler initially told Mrs A that she wouldnt have to pay a 
cancellation fee. However, she ended by saying Mrs A would pay no fees. Mrs A thought 
this meant she wouldnt have to pay anything more if the policy was cancelled. I can 
understand her confusion. 
I agree that Mrs A was always liable for her remaining premium with M  and that isnt 
Sainsburys Banks fault. But I think the first call handler could have explained the situation 
more clearly, as the second call handler did.
I think this confusion was compounded when Mrs A bought a new insurance policy and 
phoned Sainsburys Bank to cancel her existing policy, as shed been advised. After being 
told she was liable for her remaining premium, the call handler said shed call M to find out 
why it wouldnt cover Mrs As new car. But by that stage it was too late  Mrs A had already 
bought cover for her new car. I think it was reasonable for Mrs A to ask why this couldnt 
have been done before she bought her new policy.
We asked M why it wouldnt add Mrs As new car to her policy. It told us this was because 
Mrs A was no longer employed so it wouldnt renew her insurance. Thats Ms decision and, 
again, isnt something that Sainsburys Bank can control. And it means Im satisfied that the 
advice for Mrs A to buy a new policy was, ultimately, correct.
However, I think Sainsburys Bank did cause Mrs A some unnecessary upset by not 
explaining the situation clearly enough. I think this could have been avoided if its first call 
handler had dug a little deeper to find out why M wouldnt insure her new car and explained 
why Mrs A had to pay M the full premium for her old car. 
Sainsburys Bank told us that calling the insurer wasnt part of its process. The second call 
handler only offered to do this because Mrs A remained unhappy, something Sainsburys 
Bank said was over and above what was required. I dont agree with this. I dont think 
finding out why M wouldnt continue to cover Mrs A should be considered exceptional 
customer service.
It also told us that, if its call handler had spoken to the underwriter, it would still not provide 
an explanation as to why they were not willing to offer cover going forward. Im not sure 
thats right. We asked M why it wouldnt cover Mrs As new car. It told us. It didnt ask us to 
keep this confidential, so I dont see why M wouldnt have given Sainsburys Bank the same 
answer if it had asked.
Finally, Sainsburys Bank told us [Mrs A] has benefited from the [cancellation] fee being 
cancelled as a goodwill gesture. Im not persuaded by this either. Mrs A cancelled the policy 
because M wouldnt cover her new car and she still had to pay the full premium. In these 
circumstances, I dont think it would have been fair for Sainsburys Bank to charge a 
cancellation fee.
Our investigator recommended that Sainsburys Bank pay Mrs A £50 to apologise for the 
upset it caused her. In the circumstances, I think this is fair.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mrs 
A £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman