DRN-3990925
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy because Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined his claim on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F has a travel insurance policy alongside his bank current account. He has cover for 
himself and his family. The policy is underwritten by Aviva.
Mr F and his wife, Mrs F, travelled on their trip on 29 July 2022 and were due to return on 
31 August 2022. Mrs F experienced pain in her stomach on 20 August 2022 and they went 
to see a doctor on 24 August 2022. They were advised that Mrs F had an ovarian cyst and 
based on this diagnosis, she underwent treatment. Mr F made a claim for the cost of the 
treatment abroad, but Aviva declined the claim as the trip was booked for more than the 
31-day limit on the policy. Aviva said the trip had been booked for a 33-day duration and 
therefore the costs for what happened wasnt covered. Aviva confirmed that Mr F hadnt 
purchased a trip extension prior to going on their trip.
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr F brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint and concluded that Aviva hadnt treated Mr F unfairly and had 
declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr F disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, it was 
passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February 2023.  I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these into account when deciding what 
I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy with Aviva as this forms 
the basis of the insurance contract between both parties.
On page 17 of the policy booklet, Period of Insurance, it states Each trip taken whilst the 
Pack is in force will be treated as a separate period of insurance; individually subject to all 
policy terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions. Cover for each separate trip applies as 
follows
Cancellation cover begins from the date you purchase the Pack or the date of 
booking each separate trip (whichever is later) and ends when the insured person 
leaves home to start the trip
Cover under all other sections begins when the insured person leaves home to start 
the trip and ends upon returning home providing that your trip does not exceed the 
trip limit of 31 days, unless youve purchased the extended trip duration upgrade 
(theres no cover for any part of any trip which is longer than the trip limit).
On page 33/34, Section 5  General Exclusions of the policy document, there is a list of 
general conditions and exclusions that apply to all sections of cover which states, amongst 
other things, that cover wont apply for:
Any claim for any part of any trip where the trip duration is longer than 31 days, 
unless you have purchased the trip extension cover upgrade.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
There is no dispute that the trip Mr F booked was for longer than the 31-day maximum trip 
duration on the policy. Based on the above policy terms, there is no cover for claims where a 
trip duration is longer than this period, unless a trip extension upgrade was purchased. 
Mr F didnt purchase this trip extension. So, based on a strict interpretation of the terms of 
the policy, there is no cover for any incidents that occurred during this trip.
Ive carefully considered the situation and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
decline this claim on that basis. Ill explain why.
Mr F said his wife started to experience pain on 20 August 2022 and went to see a doctor on 
24 August 2022. Based on the diagnosis that she had an ovarian cyst, she underwent 
treatment. Its clear therefore that the incident which gave rise to the claim  Mrs Fs medical 
condition  did occur within the maximum trip duration. So, Im not persuaded that Aviva was 
disadvantaged by the fact that the original booked trip was longer than 31 days, for which Mr 
F didnt purchase an upgrade, as the incident occurred within the timeframe that it would 
normally provide cover. And I dont think it would be reasonable to exclude the claim based 
on a breach of such a policy condition when the cause of the claim isnt connected to that 
policy condition  in this case the maximum trip duration.
I note there is a further part on page 17 on the policy document which states:
Extension of cover
If the insured person cannot get back to the UK before the trip limit ends, this insurance will 
remain in force
1..
2. for as long as deemed medically necessary by us and in consultation with the insured 
persons treating doctor where the claim is for emergency medical treatment under this 
policy.
I say this only to highlight a potential further reason that the claim has been declined unfairly.
Regardless of this further section of Mr Fs policy, for the reasons Ive provided above, Im 
minded to think Mr Fs claim has been declined unfairly and unreasonably.Putting things right
Aviva should now consider what Ive said above and settle Mr Fs claim for medical 
expenses and related costs in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his travel 
policy.
Aviva should calculate the settlement amount from the date of the claim to the date of 
settlement and add 8% simple interest.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Both parties have also accepted my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both Aviva and Mr F have accepted my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from my findings. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, therefore, 
that Mr Fs claim has been declined unfairly and unreasonably, in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Aviva should now consider what Ive said above and settle Mr Fs claim for medical 
expenses and related costs in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his travel 
policy.
Aviva should calculate the settlement amount from the date of the claim to the date of 
settlement and add 8% simple interest.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman