DRN-4426790
The complaint
Mr O complains about AXA Insurance UK PLC (AXA) who declined his claim under his home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O held a policy with AXA since 2019. His partner lost a ring inside their home and despite 
their best efforts, they were unable to locate it. Mr O made a claim against his policy. During 
the investigation of the claim, it was found that the ring had been lost inside the home. AXA 
said that as the ring was lost inside the home and Mr O hadnt selected personal possession 
cover (PPC), the claim would be declined. 
Mr O said that during the sales process he was led to believe that PPC, was covered. He felt 
that the decision to decline his claim was unjust and unfair, so he complained to AXA. In its 
final response, although it sympathised with Mr O, it said that as he hadnt chosen to 
upgrade his policy with PPC and pay the additional premium, there was no cover for the loss 
of the ring. So, its decision to decline was correct. It did however, award £25 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused, given that there was some delay during the claims 
process.
As Mr O had been given his referral rights, he referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that Mr 
Os policy provided cover for specified perils, such as theft, storm, fire and so on. He said 
that the policy documents made it clear that there were additional extras that could be added 
to the policy, to provide extra reassurance. One of those additional extras was PPC. Mr O 
didnt select PPC, so the loss of the ring wasnt covered. As Mr O hadnt selected PPC, and 
the ring was lost, there was no cover under the policy. He agreed that AXA hadnt been 
unfair to decline the claim. 
AXA accepted the view, Mr O did not. He believed that he had selected PPC. He said that in 
any event, the policy allowed cover for items that were valued up to £2,500. And as the ring 
was far less, it ought to be covered. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr O, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. I think the main 
issue of this complaint is whether AXA was fair to have declined the claim, under the policy 
terms and conditions. 
I think the starting point of this complaint is to see what is and what isnt covered under the 
policy. I note that Mr O initially obtained cover in 2019 and this he renewed annually until 
2022. The policy that was initially selected was for standard cover. I can see that there were 
additional extras that could be purchased at an additional premium. 
The standard policy provided cover for: Your contents are covered for loss or damage by 
the following causes: 1 Fire, smoke, explosion, lightning or earthquake. 2 Riots, civil 
commotion, labour and political disturbances or strikes 3 Malicious damage or vandalism, 
theft, storm or flood.
So, there were specific perils that were listed and loss of an item, wasnt one of them. 
Having reviewed the policy, it seems that the added extras such as the PPC had to be 
selected by the customer at an additional cost. I cant see that Mr O selected this cover, 
either in 2019 or when the policy annually renewed.
AXA said that had Mr O selected PPC, then this wouldve meant that cover was provided for 
loss in or away from the home. This meant that the cover was restricted to the perils outlined 
in the policy, albeit up to the value of £2,500 per item. Consequently, as the PPC wasnt 
added, then Im satisfied that the claim was correctly declined.  
I understand that Mr O has a separate complaint regarding the sale of the policy. And I make 
it clear that I wont be addressing that complaint here. 
I appreciate that Mr O is likely to be disappointed with this decision, but in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint, Im not satisfied that AXA were unfair or unreasonable, to 
decline the claim based on the policy terms and conditions. Accordingly, there is nothing 
further that I can reasonably direct AXA to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman