DRN-3735152
The complaint
Mr H mainly complained that Financial Administration Services Limited, trading as Fidelity 
International (Fidelity):
sold his investments without his express consent leading to financial loss to Mr H via 
increased fees charged by Fidelity, and
sent defective communication about this in 2019 when all it did was create a 
notification letter in Mr Hs online account. 
Mr H has asked for financial compensation. 
What happened
Fidelity offers an investment platform that administers accounts on behalf of its customers.
Mr H held two Open Ended Investment Companies (OEICS) with Fidelity. 
In June 2015, Fidelity informed Mr H that regulatory changes implemented by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) would impact on the way financial businesses charged fees for 
their services. Fidelity explained this as follows: 
A clearer charging structure - the way investment platforms have traditionally been paid 
for their services is that fund managers have given us a proportion of their annual charge. 
This is known as 'bundled' charging. The FCA has now said we must take our own charge 
separately from a fund manager's charges. Like other platforms, we are doing this by 
introducing 'clean' share classes, with our charge taken as an explicit service fee. We started 
offering these share classes last year, and to meet the FCA's timetable we now need to 
convert your investments to them, if they haven't already been converted. Some funds don't 
have a clean share class, so we will reorganise their charges to make it clearer that you are 
paying a service fee.
Fidelity provided information about its new service fees and explained there would be 
changes to the way customers would hold Fidelity-managed funds in either an ISA or an 
Investment Fund Account. It gave details of the new nominee structure and said it would 
make the necessary changes automatically for most investments but that: we need you to 
agree to them for any of Fidelitys own funds that you hold outside an ISA in an Investment 
Fund Account.
Mr H told us he did not give his consent as he did not want the change to take place as it 
would lead to him being charged higher fees by Fidelity.
Fidelity notified Mr H again, in December 2017, that his consent was needed to convert 
Fidelity funds registered in his own name to a nominee structure. It explained that after 
29 December 2017 it would start to withdraw online dealing for accounts on its original 
system and that Mr H would only be able to buy, sell and move money between the funds in 
these accounts by phone.
In November 2019, Fidelity notified Mr H that as he hadnt provided his consent, his 
investments hadnt been moved onto its new system so he could only buy, sell or move 
money in his account by phone, rather than online. Fidelity went on to say:
Giving you full access to our services
As we phase out our older system, further restrictions may have to be applied to your 
account in future - for example, it wont be possible to top up your account. For this reason, 
weve decided to make the changes to your funds, as if you had consented. This is due to 
happen from January and will ensure we can move your Fidelity funds to our new system 
and give you access to our extended services.
Fidelity told Mr H that once his investments were moved, it would waive the service fees for 
one year for any affected investments. 
It concluded the letter saying, If youd prefer us not to convert your Fidelity-managed funds, 
please call us within 60 days of the date of this letter.You do not need to take any action 
if you are happy for us to proceed with the conversion of your Fidelity managed 
funds...
As no objection was received from Mr H within the 60 days, Fidelity proceeded as advised 
and in February 2020, it notified Mr H that the fund conversion process was complete and it 
enclosed a statement with details of the funds.  
In 2021, when Mr H saw that he was being charged higher fees, this led to him contacting 
Fidelity and subsequently complaining to Fidelity about what happened. 
Fidelity said hed been sent a secure message in November 2019 that included the letter 
explaining changes to Fidelity managed funds and confirmed that if he did not want to 
convert his Fidelity-Managed Funds then he would need to tell Fidelity within 60 days. 
Fidelity said its records showed no instruction was received from Mr H following the 
message and so his funds were converted and the new fees applied after the one-year 
waiver. Fidelity didnt uphold his complaint. 
By way of an apology for the delay in allocating his complaint for assessment, Fidelity 
offered a small payment as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr H didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things. I understand he transferred his 
investments away from Fidelity in October 2021 and he brought his complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Hs complaint. Briefly, she was satisfied 
that the account terms and conditions, which Mr H had signed up to, allowed Fidelity to take 
the action it had, bearing in mind this would prevent Mr H experiencing further restrictions on 
his account. She said Fidelity had given Mr H 60 days advance warning of the changes 
although it was only required to give one months notice which she felt was a fair and 
reasonable application of the rules. She didnt agree with Mr H that Fidelity didnt make 
enough attempts to notify him of the planned changes and felt that Fidelitys method of 
communication with Mr H was in line with his stated preference. She said Mr H had opted for 
online communications (and no post or emails) and so it was his responsibility to check his 
account for messages. 
Our investigator concluded that Mr H had the benefit of 12 months free of charges and 
overall she didnt think Fidelity had done anything wrong.Mr H disagreed with our investigator. In brief summary, he mainly said the investigator had 
misunderstood what he is complaining about. Here is a selection of comments made by 
Mr H in response to the investigators view which reflect some of his main concerns:
I have no issue at all with my bundled share class being switched to a clean share class. 
This is in my favour  so why would I have any issue with this? I am completely happy with 
this action.
I have not transacted on this account for many years and had no intention of transacting on 
it until my retirement so the comment about experiencing restrictions on my account is 
irrelevantI am only adversely impacted by the change...
I did not receive the November 2019 letter due to the communication failings by Fidelity and 
so I didnt have the option to opt out within 60 days.
Yes  I consented to electronic communication. But I did not consent to poor or ineffective 
electronic communication.
I have logged on to my account today  and I can see that the check box has been 
deselected. I did not deselect this check box. I believe this has been deselected recently by 
Fidelity.I should have received no email notifications. Yet, I have been receiving email 
notifications from them.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr H that Ive looked at this complaint afresh and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. 
Its part of my role to identify and focus on what I think is relevant and explain how I have 
reached my conclusions. This means I will not necessarily address every one of Mr Hs 
concerns on a point by point basis. The ombudsman approach is to decide what is fair and 
reasonable overall. In this decision, I will deal with all the main points that have an impact on 
the outcome of Mr Hs complaint. 
Its my understanding that the crux of Mr Hs complaint is that Fidelity acted illegally when it 
sold investments held in his name and transferred them to the nominee company because 
he believes it required his express consent to do this  and he hadnt given his consent.
Fidelity sent notification to Mr H in November 2019 giving him 60 days advance warning of 
planned changes and telling him to get in touch before the deadline if he did not want it to 
convert his Fidelity-Managed Funds. This followed the two earlier notifications about this 
sent in June 2015 and December 2017, so I cant fairly say that Fidelity didnt make 
reasonable attempts to communicate what was happening to Mr H.
I appreciate that Mr H feels Fidelitys electronic communications were inadequate  he 
mentioned that Fidelity didn't even write him a letter, it just posted on its website and 
expected him to find information without telling him it was there. 
Ive seen a screenshot of Fidelitys online Preference Centre which enabled customers to 
choose how they wanted to be contacted and opt-in and opt-out of some services and updates. It looks like Mr H selected the Online only option for everything. There was also a 
box he could tick if he wanted to be sent an email alert when he had a document available to 
view online. It appears Mr H left this unticked.
In addition, Fidelity has provided a screenshot which shows Mr H last updated his email 
preference in February 2017  and that shows the Send out Email Notifications box is 
unticked.
Im aware that Mr H said he did not deselect email notifications. And he has pointed out that 
he has received numerous emails from Fidelity between 2017  2021. But what Mr H says 
about this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. 
Where the information is incomplete or facts arent agreed by the parties involved, I must 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I 
must make reasonable assumptions where necessary.
I dont have any good reason to think that account information that has been stored on 
Fidelitys records cant be relied on. It shows that not only did Mr H not select the email 
notification option, he actively chose online communication only. I think its completely 
understandable that he may simply have forgotten what communication options he originally 
selected and had set up on his account. 
Fidelity has explained that automated regulatory emails still go to all customers regardless of 
their stated communication preference, so this explains the emails Mr H received. 
On balance, the available evidence suggests to me that its more likely Mr H set up his 
account to receive online communications only and that reflected his preference at the time. 
I've taken into account that Mr H told us this was a set and forget investment which would 
take him through to retirement with no transactions taking place so it wasnt like an everyday 
bank account where he might be expected to check-in. And I accept that it was up to Mr H to 
choose how frequently to log-in to check his account. But, having selected online 
communication, it was Mr Hs responsibility to check his account for any messages or 
updates he needed to know about. 
I cant fairly say that it was reasonable for Mr H to expect that Fidelity should have contacted 
him by post or email to direct him to check his account for online secure messages when he 
hadnt selected that account feature and he had told Fidelity that his chosen communication 
method was online only via the website.
This leads me to conclude that Fidelity was entitled to assume that its notification in 
November 2019 had been communicated in line with Mr Hs stated communication 
preferences. I dont agree that it is fair and reasonable to expect that Fidelity should have 
reviewed Mr Hs online activity to see if he had viewed the online notification when this was 
his responsibility. I find it was reasonable for Fidelity to infer Mr Hs consent, as it said it 
would, to what it proposed to do in the absence of any contact from Mr H during the notice 
period following the November 2019 notification.
The investigator set out relevant account terms and conditions at some length and relied on 
these to support her view that Fidelity hadnt done anything wrong. I agree with our 
investigator that provisions in Fidelitys client terms and conditions, which Mr H accepted 
when using his account, gave Fidelity scope to make the changes it did to the clean share 
classes as per FCA guidelines. I understand that Mr H doesnt disagree on this point - hes 
said I am happy with the changes to the share class. You havent understood what I am complaining about. So I dont think I need to say more about the account terms and 
conditions.  
In order to be able to uphold Mr Hs complaint I have to be able to fairly say that Fidelity has 
done something wrong  and I havent seen enough here to do so. 
If I havent commented on everything Mr H has said, this is because I dont feel there is 
anything more I can usefully add to what has been said elsewhere already or it doesnt make 
any material overall difference. I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've 
reached my conclusions and even though this isnt the outcome Mr H hoped for, he will at 
least feel that his complaint has been understood and fully considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
I would just remind Mr H that Fidelitys goodwill offer remains open to him to accept and 
Mr H should contact Fidelity direct if he wishes to follow this up. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman