DRN-2917148
The complaint
Mr I complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly refused to increase his overdraft.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr I asked Lloyds to increase the overdraft on his account from £2,000 
to £3,000  but it didnt agree to do so. Unhappy with the banks decision, Mr I complained: 
- Lloyds hadnt fairly assessed his application for an overdraft.
- The banks decision meant he had returned direct debits and unpaid bills.
- The call handler had spoken to him poorly on the phone. 
- Lloyds failed to support him during financial hardship or when suffering ill health.
- Lloyds acted in this way due to racism as a result of his name.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. It responded to say its lending decisions are based on 
many factors including external credit reference agency data and all procedures were 
followed. It considered the call handler was polite and offered to transfer Mr I to their 
customer support unit (CSU) but hed declined this. It explained direct debits will be returned 
unpaid if there isnt enough money in the account at the time its due. However, for the 
delays in responding to Mr Is complaint, it paid him £50 compensation.
Mr I was unhappy and brought his case to our service. 
The investigator thought the bank had acted fairly. In particular, she felt increasing the 
overdraft wouldve left Mr I in a more exposed position which couldve been irresponsible 
and created further problems. 
Mr I disagreed - he says he hasnt declined support from the CSU but wishes this had been 
offered sooner. Also, he still feels Lloyds has been racist towards him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr I that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
While I understand how frustrating it must be that the request to increase his overdraft was 
declined, when Mr I can see no reason for this, its important to explain Lloyds is entitled to 
make this decision. Its for a bank to decide who it will give credit to and  if so  on what 
terms. It isnt within the remit of this service to tell a bank it should approve a request for an 
increased overdraft. However, it is expected that the process a bank follows in assessing the 
circumstances of those who apply for credit doesnt lead to customers applications being 
declined in a way which is unreasonable or unfair.
Lenders must carry out affordability assessments for any form of credit. Those assessments 
should be proportionate and the level of them will depend on the type of lending and the 
amount. In assessing Mr Is applications, Lloyds explained it carried out a credit check and 
looked at his existing commitments and indebtedness, how he was meeting them and the 
level of information Mr I shared with it ,amongst other matters. Based on these checks, the 
bank decided Mr I didnt meet its criteria and it wasnt prepared to increase his overdraft. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that was an unreasonable or unfair decision for it to make. 
I accept Mr I disagrees with that decision, but Lloyds is responsible for ensuring he could 
repay the increased credit in a sustainable way. Mr Is application was subject to the banks 
usual assessment, and Ive not seen anything to suggest Lloyds treated Mr I differently to 
any other applicant. So, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in how it assessed his request to 
increase his overdraft. 
I appreciate the banks decision on the overdraft led to some of Mr Is direct debits being 
returned unpaid. However, having found the bank didnt do anything wrong when it declined 
his application for an increased overdraft, it follows that it didnt do anything wrong by 
returning the direct debits when there wasnt enough money or credit to cover them.
Mr I says Lloyds discriminated against him when making the decision not to approve the 
overdraft increase due to his race, which he says wouldve been known due to his name. Its 
important to explain at this stage that its not my role to say whether Lloyds has breached the 
Equality Act 2010 (Act). This is because thats a matter for the courts to decide, not our 
service. Ive taken the Act into account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant 
law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr I 
wants a decision that Lloyds has breached the Act, then hed need to go Court.
While I understand Mr I feels the decision to decline his overdraft was made with the 
intention of treating him differently and unfairly when compared to other customers, I think it 
more likely the decision was based on the information Mr I gave when asking for the 
overdraft. I havent found anything malicious in Lloydss actions. I also dont think it likely a 
large high street bank, such as Lloyds, would take a coordinated and sustained approach 
against Mr I for this purpose. I say this particularly as the matter has involved many staff 
members across different areas of the business and various processes.
From the customer notes and recordings Ive listened to, Mr I was offered support by Lloyds 
in the form of repayment holidays, refunded fees and reduced account charges moving 
forward. He was also offered support from the CSU and, in the initial call from September - 
and at other points - this was declined. So, I dont agree Lloyds failed to support him. I also 
dont accept the call handler spoke poorly to Mr I. In the call where Mr I was told he wouldnt 
be given an increased overdraft, the call handler was professional and calm. Particularly 
when considering how he was spoken to by Mr I, for which Mr I apologised for in the call.
Mr I was paid £50 by Lloyds. However, as he couldve come to this service 8 weeks after 
hed raised his complaint with no response, this isnt something I wouldve asked it to do.
I accept Mr I will be disappointed, but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear. My 
decision now ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Lloyds  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint to our service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman