DRN-3664108
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc hasnt treated him fairly in refusing to cover the cost of 
his travel to the UK to report fraudulent use of his bank card.
What happened
Mr S holds a Lloyds account which he only uses upon his occasional returns to the UK.
In 2016 he reported unauthorised use of his bank card to Lloyds. Mr S reports that on this 
occasion, Lloyds had reimbursed him for the disputed transactions and paid him £500 further 
compensation for its handling of the matter.
A few years later, Mr S noticed similar unauthorised use of his card. He wrote to Lloyds in 
March 2019. Lloyds didnt respond. Mr S wrote again around six months later saying hed 
charge the bank for the cost of travelling to the UK if it didnt resolve the matter. Having 
received no response, Mr S called into a Lloyds branch when he travelled to the UK 
in early 2020. 
Lloyds said it would refund Mr S for the disputed transactions and pay him additional 
compensation of £250 for its handling of the matter. It accepted it was at fault for not 
responding to his letter. It said the reference to new unauthorised usage of the card hadnt 
been picked up in the letter, and it apologised for not identifying this. But, it didnt agree it 
was liable to refund Mr S for the cost of travelling to the UK.
Mr S didnt accept this. He had warned Lloyds he would claim back the cost of travelling to 
the UK (his airfare and accommodation) plus compensation of £2,000. Furthermore, the sum 
of £250 was less than hed been given by Lloyds in respect of the incident in 2016, and he 
believed he should receive at least as much as before, if not more.
Our Investigator reviewed Mr Ss complaint. She thought Lloyds had acted fairly and didnt 
need to do more. She said it was expected that a complainant would take steps to mitigate 
the impact of any mistake by a financial business. She couldnt fairly require Lloyds to pay 
more for additional costs that werent a necessary consequence. The Investigator thought 
£250 was appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. She didnt consider Lloyds was 
liable to pay the cost of Mr Ss travel to the UK or accommodation, or that it should be bound 
by the warning he said hed given.
Mr S disagreed. He said that the while the Investigator had commented he could have called 
Lloyds on the provided phone number rather than travel, hed found from previous 
experience this would lead to never ending correspondence, and when he did visit the 
branch in person it was resolved in just two hours. Hed warned the bank he would impose 
these costs if it had happened again so now it needed to pay him that sum.
Because of this disagreement I have been asked to make a final decision on Mr Ss 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am glad that Lloyds was ultimately able to resolve the disputed transactions on Mr Ss 
account, albeit not as swiftly as either side would have liked. Ive taken careful account of 
what hes said about the frustration this has caused and the broader impact this issue has 
had on him. 
Lloyds acknowledges it didnt act as it should when it received his initial letter in 2019. It says 
it ought to have identified that while his letter made substantial reference to an earlier (and 
by that time resolved) issue, Mr S was now attempting to report a new problem. It paid Mr S 
£250 in respect of the distress and inconvenience he was caused. 
Having reviewed the content of the letter Mr S originally sent, I can understand the cause of 
this confusion. The letter refers to both the old and the new issues. But I think even if Lloyds 
was unable to establish what the purpose of the letter was, it could have done more to clarify 
what Mr S was saying. It did not. 
While I understand Mr S had a similar issue a few years prior, I think the sum Lloyds has 
paid Mr S is appropriate in the circumstances of what happened this time.
Mr S says hed later written to Lloyds warning the bank hed charge it for his costs of travel 
to the UK and would require a further £2,000 compensation in addition. I understand he 
believes Lloyds should now be held liable to pay these sums.
As our Investigator said, when we are looking into any award of this type, we will always give 
consideration to whether the complainant could have taken steps to mitigate the impact of an 
error made by a financial business. If we agree there were steps the customer could have 
taken or took steps that were not a necessary consequence of the original error, then we 
might decide it's fair for a business to pay less compensation. A business's mistake can start 
a chain of events  and sometimes it wouldn't be fair to hold the business responsible for all 
the resulting effects on the customer. So, we'll carefully consider the circumstances to 
decide what impact directly flows from the original error.
Here, Lloyds accepts it was at fault in not identifying that Mr Ss initial letter was raising a 
new issue. But it argues Mr S could have contacted Lloyds by some other method than flying 
to the UK in person and doesnt accept it should be bound by Mr Ss warning he would 
charge it for these costs.
While Mr S says his prior experience suggests that anything other than an in-person visit will 
result in endless correspondence, I am not persuaded that this justifies me holding Lloyds 
liable to pay the costs of Mr S travelling to the UK.
On the contrary, I do not find Lloyds liable in that regard. Based on what I have seen, Mr S 
could reasonably have taken steps other than that of flying to the UK in seeking to resolve 
the issue with the disputed transactions on his account. I am not persuaded this was his only 
option. Neither do I find that Lloyds is made liable as a consequence of Mr Ss warning letter.
Overall, I find Lloyds offer of £250 was appropriate in all the circumstances. I do not think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to require Lloyds to do more here. In relation to the sum 
Lloyds gave him in 2016, it may be that Lloyds awarded a higher sum than I would have 
awarded had I been asked to decide the matter, or it may simply be a case of the 
circumstances differing. But that does not mean Lloyds must pay the same again (or indeed more). And Lloyds previous award does not bind me to make that award in the current 
circumstances. Rather, in thinking about Mr Ss current complaint, I must consider what I 
believe to be a fair sum in these circumstances. 
And, in considering the situation and impact on this occasion, in all the circumstances I do 
not find Lloyds can fairly be required to pay Mr S a higher sum, or the further costs he 
wishes it cover.
I understand that this will not be the outcome Mr S wishes. I am required to reach a decision 
based on what I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and I have done so 
here. I hope that my review of the matter and explanation is helpful but if Mr S chooses not 
to accept my final decision neither he nor Lloyds will be bound by my findings.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman