DRN-2898433
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has handled his claim for 
subsidence on his home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr C has home insurance with Admiral. In 2018 he made a claim for subsidence after 
noticing cracks in his property. Admiral accepted the claim, however during its investigations 
it found that the previous owners of the property had made a claim for subsidence that Mr C 
had been aware of but hadnt declared. It therefore said it would only settle the claim 
proportionately as it wouldnt have offered the policy at the same price if it had known. It said 
it would only cover 38% of the claim and Mr C would need to pay the rest.
Mr C complained about this and brought his complaint to this service. I previously issued a 
decision that concluded the settlement offered by Admiral was fair.
After this the claim progressed slowly. An arborist was instructed who established that there 
were two trees causing the subsidence, one owned by a neighbour and one by the local 
authority. One of the trees was removed and the other reduced as the neighbour wouldnt 
agree to remove it.
After a period of monitoring, in April 2020 Admirals contractor advised that it should move to 
underpinning to resolve the problem. Admiral agreed to this and in September that year a 
meeting took place so the contractor could put together a scope of works. 
After the meeting there was little progress on the claim. During this time Mr C made a 
complaint as he said the claim had been going on for a long time with little progress, and this 
was causing him distress. Admiral responded in April 2021 and upheld his complaint. It said 
it agreed there had been a delay of around six months. And a further delay in it responding 
to his complaint. It offered him a total of £650 compensation to make up for this.
Mr C didnt think this was enough. He said he felt the delays had caused the damage to 
worsen and now additional work would be required to fix the problem. And, as he was 
required to pay 62% of the cost of the claim, this meant he would have to pay more than he 
would have done. So he thought Admiral should pay a higher proportion of the claim to make 
up for that. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
agreed Admiral had caused avoidable delays but thought this was around eight months 
rather than six. She thought it should pay an additional £200 compensation to make up for 
this. However she didnt think there was enough evidence to show that the cost of repairs 
would increase because of the delays.
Admiral accepted our investigators opinion. However Mr C didnt agree. He thought Admiral 
should pay a greater amount of compensation. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have already issued a decision on a complaint from Mr C about this claim. In that decision, 
I considered Mr Cs concerns up until Admiral issued its first final response in June 2019. 
Therefore when reaching this decision, I will only take into account issues that happened 
after this date and before its second final response, which was issued in April 2021.
Mr C is unhappy with the length of time it has taken for Admiral to progress his claim. He 
said from June 2019 there has been very little progress and work hadnt begun on the 
repairs. Ive looked at how the claim has progressed since June 2019, to decide if there were 
any delays that could have been avoided. 
To begin with Admiral said it would need to monitor the movement of the property, and this 
took a number of months. This is usual in a subsidence claim as it is needed to establish the 
severity and pattern of the movement. And to see if the building is stabilising.
During this time an arborist concluded that the cause of the movement was two trees close 
to the property. It wrote to the owners of the trees  Mr Cs neighbour and the local authority. 
In March 2020 Admiral received a response from Mr Cs neighbour, saying they werent 
prepared to remove it. And in the two months that followed the other tree was removed and 
the neighbours one was reduced. 
So between June 2019 and March 2020 the claim progressed as I would expect. And while 
there was a delay in the removal and reduction of the trees, this wasnt caused by Admiral. 
So I dont think there were any unnecessary delays at this stage. 
However, once this was completed, I would have expected work to begin to repair the 
property. And in April 2021 Admirals contractor concluded that the property would need to 
be underpinned. However after this it took two months for Admiral to give authorisation for 
the underpinning and Ive not seen any reason for this delay. So I think this could have been 
avoided.
After authorisation was granted, it took a further three months for a visit to be arranged so 
the scope of works could be compiled  from June 2020 until September that year. Admiral 
has explained that this delay was due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which meant a visit couldnt 
be arranged immediately. While government restrictions were lifted in summer 2020, there 
was a backlog of work that had to be delayed during this time, that needed to be 
rescheduled. So I understand why this may have taken longer than usual and I dont think 
Admiral caused an unnecessary delay here.
However after the visit the claim appears to have come to a halt, with no further progress 
made between this time and when Admiral issued its final response in April 2021. It has said 
it has been waiting for the scope of works to be provided by its contractor, however accepts 
that this shouldnt have taken over six months to obtain. I agree this is an excessive amount 
of time and until the scope of works is received, the claim cant progress any further. As 
Admiral is responsible for the actions of the contractors it appoints, it is responsible for this 
delay.
So based on my review, I agree with our investigator that Admiral has caused around eight 
months of delays that could have been avoided between June 2019 and its final response in 
April 2021. I have considered the impact this has had on Mr C. I can see from the timeline and 
correspondence provided that he has been regularly contacting Admiral for updates, as he 
hasnt heard anything about the next steps since the visit in September last year. This would 
have been inconvenient and distressing for Mr C as the claim has been ongoing for a total of 
three years and repair work still hasnt commenced. Further he is aware that he will need to 
pay 62% of the costs towards the work. But without the scope of works, he doesnt know 
how much the total cost  and therefore his contribution - will be. This would make the delay 
particularly distressing, as the potential outlay would be hanging over him.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that Admiral should pay an additional £200 
compensation, on top of the £650 already offered.   
I have considered what Mr C has said about the damage getting worse due to the delays 
and his concerns that this will increase how much he will need to pay. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that the damage has worsened considerably during this time. Further, 
the majority of the cost of the claim is the underpinning of the property. And this would have 
been required even if Admiral hadnt caused delays. Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Mr C will have to pay a larger amount towards the claim due to the delays. So I wont ask 
Admiral to pay a higher proportion of the claim cost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to pay him an additional £200 compensation - £850 in total  if it hasnt already done 
so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman