DRN-4385106
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled her 
claim. She had home emergency insurance underwritten by RSA, and complained that she 
was left without heating and hot water after it tried to repair her boiler.
What happened
Miss L claimed under her home emergency policy when she realised her boiler had a small 
leak. She complained to RSA two weeks after its first repair visit. At that time Miss L also 
made RSA aware of her households vulnerability. 
Miss L was without heating and hot water, and over the following months she complained 
that RSA:
drained her heating system;
failed to repair the boiler;
didnt communicate with her properly throughout;
missed appointments;
damaged her boiler, and 
said it was beyond economical repair (BER).
RSA accepted itd made mistakes and offered Miss L £1,500 compensation for the 
inconvenience and stress caused by its delays, as well as to cover the additional costs 
incurred for alternative heating sources. RSA also confirmed it would contribute £150 
towards a replacement boiler. 
Miss L wasn't happy with RSAs offer, so she brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator thought RSA had made a reasonable offer in respect of the boiler 
contribution and compensation, but she didnt think itd done enough to address the cost of 
additional heating sources. Our investigator thought RSA should pay Miss L the cost 
incurred over and above that which she wouldve paid had her boiler worked.
Neither Miss L nor RSA agreed.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Miss Ls complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Replacement boiler contribution
After its repair attempts, RSA said Miss Ls boiler was BER. It offered her £150 towards a 
replacement boiler. Ive looked at the policy which sets out what RSA should pay in the 
circumstances. It says:
In the event your domestic boiler is declared beyond economical repair, we will 
make a contribution of up to £500 towards replacing it, depending on the age of 
your boiler
Miss Ls boiler was 13 years old. The policy provided for a contribution of £150 for boilers 
aged between 11 and 15 years. Therefore, Im satisfied that RSAs offer was in line with the 
policy. 
While the contribution was in line with the policy, Ive thought about whether it was fair in the 
circumstances. Miss L said RSA damaged her boiler during repairs and she provided 
independent reports in support of her claim. 
Looking at RSAs record of contact with Miss L, I see it asked her to provide evidence of the 
damage she believed its contractors caused so it could look into it. The records show that 
Miss L refused, preferring to bring the evidence to this service.
Ive looked at the two reports Miss L provided for our consideration and summarised them 
here: 
13 February report
This report, prepared by the engineer to whom Miss L first reported the leak, said the 
boiler was leaking but working in September. In January it was turned off and not working, 
but the engineer didnt do any work on it because he didnt know what had already been 
done. Ive also noted that this engineer didnt work on it in September either, because 
Miss L said repairs would be covered under her insurance. 
18 February report
The engineer reported that he turned the boiler on, but immediately drained it again 
because it started leaking. He said it would need to be fixed before he could check it any 
more thoroughly. The engineer confirmed the pressure gauge was damaged.
Ive thought carefully about these reports, but I cant say that they provide evidence to 
support Miss Ls claim that RSA damaged her boiler. Both reports include a record of what 
Miss L told the engineers, but neither engineer commented on whether it was likely that RSA 
caused additional damage.
It's also important to point out that because neither engineer worked on the boiler, its not 
possible to determine whether they wouldve been able to fix it, or whether further problems 
wouldve become apparent as they appear to have done for RSA.
Overall, I dont think these reports evidence that RSA caused damage to Miss Ls boiler. 
Therefore, I see no reason to ask RSA to contribute any more to a replacement boiler than 
the £150 it has already offered in line with the policy.Compensation
Theres no dispute that RSA made mistakes handling Miss Ls claim. Miss L thinks RSA 
should pay her around £5,000 to compensate for the issues of her complaint. RSA offered 
£1,500 compensation which it believed was, proportionate and reasonable recompense for 
the inconvenience and stress caused by the delays that were experienced, as well as to 
cover the additional costs incurred for alternative heating sources.
RSA was aware of the vulnerabilities within Miss Ls household, and that she was without 
heating and hot water during the winter months. It was also aware that she had an 
alternative heating source in at least one room of the house. So Ive thought about the 
mistakes RSA made which wouldve caused Miss L distress and inconvenience above and 
beyond that which might be expected for a faulty boiler.
Ive noted that on occasion Miss L declined appointment slots because she was otherwise 
busy. And she didnt answer RSAs calls every time. However, the evidence clearly shows 
that the majority of the delay was caused by RSA and its agents. So, from the date Miss L 
reported the boiler fault to the date it was deemed BER, I think its reasonable to say RSA 
caused delays equivalent to around three months.
I dont think RSA is responsible for anything more than three months. Thats because Miss 
Ls policy didnt provide for a replacement boiler once hers was deemed BER, and RSA 
made her aware that shed need to make her own arrangements. I see RSA also told Miss L 
that she was likely entitled to a grant to cover the cost. Regardless of whether Miss L 
needed to pay or whether she was entitled to a grant, Im satisfied that RSA wasn't 
responsible for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of heating and hot water 
once it confirmed the boiler was BER.
Therefore, on consideration of the compensation offer RSA made, I think its a fair sum to 
address the avoidable delays of around three months, caused by its failure to handle Miss 
Ls claim and communications as well as she could reasonably have expected.
Additional heating cost
The final point Ill address is the cost of the additional fuel Miss L bought to use her 
alternative heating source, and the cost of electricity above that which shed normally use. 
Miss L thinks RSA should pay the additional costs, but RSA disagrees.
Ive looked at the policy which states:
We will assist you and pay for the call out, labour and parts and materials involved in 
repairing or rectifying leaks within, or the breakdown of your domestic boiler and/or 
central heating system at your home. 
We will pay up to £50 towards the cost of purchase or hire by the insured person 
(upon production of an original receipt for payment) of alternative heating sources 
where these are deemed necessary in the event that the primary heating system has 
failed completely and it is not possible to reinstate the heating. 
So, if Miss L bought electric heaters for several rooms, RSA wouldve given her up to £50 
once it had evidence of the purchase. Miss L already had an alternative heat source in one 
room, and she chose to buy fuel to keep that room warm. Because of this, she wants RSA to 
pay for all the fuel and the extra electricity used, noting in particular the pans of water she 
heated on her electric hob to get hot water for bathing.While I agree that RSA shouldve paid towards the alternative heating in line with the policy, I 
dont think its fair to ask RSA to pay more than it has already offered. Thats because its 
£1,500 compensation offer was made in recognition of the additional heating costs, and 
thats stated in its letter to Miss L. I also note that it wasn't seeking evidence of those costs 
before making the offer.
For completeness, Ive looked at the energy bills Miss L provided for the period October to 
March for the year she was without heating, and for the corresponding period the year 
before. When comparing the bills, the key factor is not the cost, but the amount of energy 
used. When Miss L was without heating, she used a little over 5 kWh of electricity per day. 
The year before, when she had heating and hot water, Miss L used just under 8 kWh of 
electricity per day. So, the evidence indicates that Miss Ls electricity usage didnt increase 
compared to the previous year. In terms of the single heating source fuel, some of the cost 
will be balanced out by the fact that Miss L was not paying for gas.   
In light of this evidence, I dont think RSA needs to pay Miss L any more towards her 
alternative heating than it has already offered.
In summary, RSA made mistakes handling Miss Ls claim which caused her significant 
inconvenience and distress, and which couldve been avoided. But I dont think RSA is 
responsible for anything after the point at which it declared the boiler beyond economical 
repair. RSA made an offer to contribute towards a replacement boiler in line with the policy, 
and it offered £1,500 compensation for the effect its mistakes had on Miss L and for the 
alternative heating costs. 
I think RSAs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not minded to ask it 
to do any more.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA accepted my findings.
Miss L didnt agree. She said she was without heating and hot water from September, and 
she didnt refuse to provide evidence to RSA. Miss L explained again that she sent the two 
engineer reports and fuel receipts to RSA after its compensation offer. Therefore, Miss L 
doesnt agree that its offer takes into consideration everything that had happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Miss Ls comments and the evidence again, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold her complaint.
I understand Miss L was without heating and hot water from September. But RSA is only 
responsible for the cover available to her under the policy. Miss Ls policy was for home 
emergencies, and the evidence shows that RSA fulfilled its responsibilities. At the point RSA 
deemed the boiler beyond economical repair, and offered a contribution towards the 
replacement cost, its liability ended. It then became Miss Ls responsibility to arrange for a 
replacement boiler. So I cant reasonably hold RSA responsible for the full period Miss L was 
without heating and hot water.In my provisional decision, I said the records showed that Miss L refused to send RSA 
evidence that its contractors damaged her boiler. Miss L provided evidence that she sent the 
engineer reports to RSA. My comments referred to the records RSA provided, which appear 
to be accurate for that time. The note was recorded in early February, and I see Miss L sent 
the evidence later in March. 
Id like to reassure Miss L that I took the evidence into consideration regardless of whether 
she first provided it to RSA. But as I said, the two engineer reports only provide a record of 
what Miss L told the engineers. Neither state, or even suggest, that RSA damaged the boiler 
or that it couldve been repaired.
Miss L says she provided the engineer reports and the evidence of her alternative fuel costs 
after RSAs compensation offer. So she thinks the offer cant fairly reflect the overall 
circumstances because RSA said it would consider her further evidence. I understand the 
point shes making. However, whether or not RSA had the evidence before its offer, I 
wouldnt have expected it to offer more than it did. Thats because the additional evidence 
doesnt demonstrate any further liability on RSAs part. Im satisfied that the compensation 
more than reasonably addressed the service shortfalls, and Ive explained in my provisional 
decision that the policy only provided for £50 towards additional fuel sources.  
Overall, I dont find that Miss Ls further comments warrant any change to my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman