DRN-4294431
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr S had a credit card account operated by NewDay and noticed three transactions he didnt
recognise. All three were made to companies overseas and were made on the same day.
Mr S notified NewDay about them and told them he wasnt responsible for the transactions.
Mr S said hadnt given his card details to anyone else or stored them online. Mr Ss personal
arrangements meant that other persons had access to his home, but he didnt believe his
card details had been taken by anyone else. NewDay provided a temporary refund of the
charges while they looked into the situation.
NewDay then used the Chargeback system to dispute the payments. This is a system
operated by the card processor, in this case Mastercard. The system enables the customer
( Mr S) to ask his credit card company (NewDay) to challenge the transactions.
The system is subject to strict rules and requires the merchant who took the payment to
defend it via their card processor. When NewDay disputed the three payments, they
received evidence indicating that all three transactions were made using Mr Ss card details,
the evidence also included his email address, home address (using his postcode) and an IP
address associated with other online activity Mr S had carried out with his NewDay card.
The IP address relates to a location linked to the internet activity of devices or the network
used in the transaction. The evidence also included postal tracking data showing that all
three parcels had been delivered.
Once NewDay received this evidence they advised Mr S they were declining his claim and
recovered the temporary refund. Mr S appealed the decision although NewDay later
recognised that they hadnt dealt with the appeal as quickly as theyd hoped and credited Mr
S with £20 as an apology for the delay.
Mr S maintained that the websites were fraudulent and the merchants couldnt be contacted.
Mr S believed that only one tracking number had been provided and there were three
separate orders. He also told NewDay there was no record of the parcels being delivered to
his address and he would be able to provide evidence to show this.
NewDay considered the appeal but didnt change their position and informed Mr S. He then
explained to NewDay that he would like to make an application under s.75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974. Essentially this is enables (in certain circumstances) someone who
purchases goods via credit to hold the credit provider (NewDay) responsible for issues with
the merchant who supplied the goods/services.
NewDay declined the request because Mr S had already stated he hadnt authorised the
transactions which meant that S.75 wasnt applicable.
Mr S remained unsatisfied with how NewDay had handled his situation and brought his
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked into by one of our
investigators.
Evidence was provided by both parties. Mr S explained that he only used his credit card to
make purchases from one particular merchant and provided a history of his recent
purchases from them. Mr S raised issues surrounding the lack of detail available from the
merchants who took the payments including return addresses/emails that he believed made
it impossible for him to exercise his ability to return the items/obtain a refund.
NewDay provided evidence concerning the Chargeback details theyd received, and details
of IP address data linked to other non-disputed uses of Mr Ss credit card account. This IP
data matched with the Chargeback information.
After considering the evidence, the investigator thought it unlikely that Mr S was responsible
for the transactions and suggested that they may have been made by others present at Mr
Ss address.
NewDay disagreed and asked for a further review of the complaint which has now been
passed to me for a decision. NewDay added that:
It was unlikely that a third party or a fraudster would use Mr Ss genuine email
address as this would alert him to the payments.
If Mr S believed the transactions were made by others at his home, he would need to
provide supporting evidence of this by reporting it to the authorities.
Notes of discussions with Mr S confirm that no one else had access to his card
details.
Mr S said he would have been awake at the time of the transactions but later said
this wasnt the case.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ss complaint on 2 June 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended to not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and offered 
both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that NewDay can hold Mr S liable for
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made
them or authorised them.
NewDay can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr S authorised the
transactions, but NewDay cannot say that the use of the card details for online purchases
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless NewDay can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mr Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, NewDay have explained how the payments were authenticatedwith the payment tools issued to Mr S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by
both parties to determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr S responsible for the
disputed transactions or not.
NewDay chose to dispute the transactions on Mr Ss behalf using the Chargeback system.
This is something Id expect NewDay to do once Mr S made his report to them about the
unrecognised transactions. The response from the merchants provided details about the
transactions and together with the details provided by NewDay, a picture has formed about
what happened at the time these transactions were made.
The details provided through the Chargeback response show that all three packages were
recorded as delivered, giving a date and time. One of those packages appears to have taken
two attempts to be successfully delivered.
The Chargeback information includes Mr Ss email address, his card number and the three-
digit security number (CVV) from the back of the card (which isnt usually stored
electronically). The correct postcode was also entered for Mr Ss home address. Additionally,
the information included an IP address which matched other non-disputed transactions.
What that means here is that the disputed transactions were likely to have been made from
the same device and location as other transactions using the same credit card.
Mr S has said that his card details arent known to anyone else, but also that there are other
persons visiting his address to assist him. If no one else had access to the card, then it
seems implausible that these transactions could have been made successfully and
considering they were made from a common IP address, the objective conclusion I would
have to come to is that Mr S was responsible.
I considered the points raised by the investigator and whilst these transactions could have
been made by others who attended Mr Ss home, theres currently no evidence to support
that, particularly given the lack of access to the relevant personal details needed to complete
the transactions (card details including the security (CVV) number and personal email
address). I dont think the reference to the merchant Mr S usually uses for this card is
relevant as these transactions dont appear to have used that particular marketplace, so
wouldnt be expected to be recorded in the purchase history.
Regarding Mr Ss request for S.75 and references to the Consumer Credit Act  I dont think
currently that these are relevant as its Mr Ss case that he didnt authorise the transactions.
The various references hes made to Consumer Credit law relate to authorised transactions
and issues related to their supply  which cant be relevant if Mr S denied making them. So, I
havent gone on to further consider these points.
I recognise that there are some unusual aspects to this complaint, as all three payments
related to a product described as a Mystery Box, so its unclear what was being purchased.
Also, that the complete address wasnt present in the delivery evidence, only the full
postcode.
I have to make my decision based on the available evidence and where thats missing, on
the balance of probabilities. Currently, I think the balance of evidence doesnt point to an
unauthorised third party making these transactions  but I understand Mr S had told NewDay
he could obtain further evidence to support his case. I havent seen that evidence, but will
consider anything further Mr S may wish to provide.
I invited Mr S and NewDay to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. NewDay didnt have anything further to add and 
Mr S didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
Overall, the evidence shows that Mr S was more likely than not responsible for making these 
transactions and it was reasonable for NewDay to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman