DRN-4306763
The complaint
Ms J says Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G) mis-sold her term assurance
(life) and income protection insurance policies.
What happened
In 2015, L&G advised Ms J to take out life insurance and income protection policies. The life 
insurance policy provided a benefit of £50,000 in the event of a successful claim. And, 
subject to the terms of the policy being met, if Ms J was too sick to work, the income
protection policy provided a benefit of £1,000 per month. Ms J accepted the 
recommendations and paid a monthly premium for both policies.
Ms J says, after discussing income protection policies with her friends, she contacted L&G in
June 2022 to check that the income protection policy provided cover for redundancy. And
after she was told that the policy didnt, she raised a complaint to L&G that both policies had
been mis-sold. As she was in rented accommodation and didnt have any dependants, she
didnt think she needed life insurance with a £50,000 benefit. She says a benefit of £10,000
wouldve been enough. L&G didnt uphold her complaint. It didnt think the policies had been 
mis-sold.
Unhappy, Ms J complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And having looked into
what happened, our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. Ms J disagreed and requested
that her complaint be referred to an Ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision in July 2023 explaining why I was intending to partially 
uphold Ms Js complaint  an extract of which is set out below.
..
L&G advised Ms J to take out both policies, so it was under an obligation to ensure that they
were suitable for her needs. It also had to provide her with clear, fair and not misleading
information about the main features of both policies.
For the following reasons, I intend to partially uphold Ms Js complaint.
Life insurance
Although the £50,000 benefit couldve been beneficial to Ms J if she was diagnosed with a
terminal illness as defined by the policy  or to her estate, if she died  Im not persuaded
she had a need for this level of benefit, given her personal circumstances at the time. She
was single (having been widowed), living in rented accommodation (so no mortgage) and
didnt have any dependants.
Page 6 of the personal information form (entitled needs & priorities) completed by L&Gs
advisor at the time is blank. That includes a section on how important is it to protect your
family? which hasnt been completed. And although on page 23 its reflected that no has
been answered to would your dependants be able to maintain their standard of living in the
vent of your death, there are no further details.
Ms J says that if she died, she wanted the benefit to cover her repatriation costs to the
country shed previously lived and for her funeral there. That isnt mentioned in the personal
information form either, but Im prepared to accept what she says about that. Given, her
personal circumstances at the time, there seems to be little reason why shed need life
insurance. She says the cost of repatriation and a funeral would cost less than £10,000.
Having researched this, I accept this isnt an unreasonable estimate.
At the time of sale, L&G has said that the minimum monthly premium for this type of policy
wouldve been £10  which is less than Ms J paid. Its not been able to confirm the amount
of benefit this wouldve equated to but its likely to have been more than £20,000 (but less
than £50,000).
So, in the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied the benefit amount
recommended to Ms J was unsuitable for her needs. From what Ive seen, theres no
compelling reason that she wouldve chosen a benefit of £50,000 if shed been advised that
there was a lower benefit available and L&Gs advisor had understood her needs, even if
she did have the budget for it and it mightve been useful.
Ms J was told about the cost and benefit of the life insurance policy, and I accept that she
was free not to take it out, ask any further questions and request a lower benefit. However,
as this was an advised sale, L&G didnt just have to provide her with clear, fair and not
misleading information about the policy, it also had to ensure that it was suitable for her
needs. Ms J engaged L&G to provide her with advice. It doesnt look like she was
experienced in such matters so its reasonable to think that shed accept the
recommendations made. Ultimately, its for L&G to ensure that the recommendation it made
was suitable for her needs. For the above reasons, I dont think it was.
And although Ms J or her estate couldve benefitted from the policy since it was taken out,
that in itself doesnt mean it wasnt mis-sold to her  or that the benefit amount was suitable
for her needs at the time it was sold. So, I think Ms J has been paying more for life insurance
than she ought to have been, considering her needs at the time.
Income protection insurance
From what Ive seen I dont think Ms J was pressured to take out income protection. Nor do I
think income protection was unsuitable given her circumstances.
Theres nothing to suggest that she had extensive sick pay if she couldnt work because of
illness, so the benefit couldve been beneficial if she fell ill. If she was without her regular
income, a successful claim wouldve meant that she could receive £1,000 per month  which
wouldve helped with her monthly expenditure.
There was a waiting period of four weeks before she could claim on the income protection
policy. Even though theres nothing from the time to suggest that she was entitled to
contractual sick pay, I dont think that was unsuitable as she is likely to have been able to
claim statutory sick pay which wouldve provided her with a small income for the first four
weeks, until she was able to claim the benefit under the policy. And its not uncommon for an
income protection policy to have a waiting period and policies without one tend to be more
expensive.
Looking at the other key features of the policy, including the main exclusions, price and
benefit period, I dont think theres anything else which made the recommendation
unsuitable. Looking at her disposable income at the time, as reflected in the personalinformation document, it also looks like it was affordable to her although I appreciate Ms Js
point about some of her expenditure not being on the document such as rent.
Although a letter sent to Ms J around the time sets out some key features of the income
protection policy (such as the monthly cost, benefit amount, waiting period and length of the
policy) I dont know if she was given clear, fair and not misleading information about all the
main terms of the policy before she agreed to buy it. But even if she wasnt, I dont think
theres anything which wouldve put her off taking out the policy if shed known more about
any of the key features. And if she was unhappy with anything detailed in the policy
document, she was free to cancel the policy within the cooling off period or subsequently 
which she didnt do at the time.
Theres nothing to suggest that Ms J was advised to take out unemployment cover (which
would usually include compulsory redundancy) at the time. However, the letter she was sent
around the time setting out L&Gs recommendations reflects that Ms J didnt want to discuss
protecting your income in the event you were unable to work due to unemployment.
This letter was addressed to Ms J and Ive seen no compelling reason that it wasnt sent to
her or that she didnt receive it. Nor did Ms J query this at the time. Ms J might not have
known that unemployment also meant redundancy but in light of Ms J confirming that she
didnt want to discuss protecting her income if she became unemployed, I dont think L&G
acted unfairly or unreasonably by not exploring this further with her, or assessing her needs
for unemployment cover.
So, I dont think the income protection policy was mis-sold to her.
Other issues
When making my findings above in respect of the sale of both policies, Ive taken into
account Ms Js points that shed only been in the UK for five years at the point of sale and
English isnt her first language.
However, Ive seen nothing from the time to show she didnt understand the advice or
information shed received, and she was free to have clarified anything. I note that she was
sent documents to consider by way of email dated 26 June 2015, and it looks like that was
before the policies started, so she had time to read anything and ask any questions if she
was unsure.
Ms J is also unhappy with some of the things said by L&G when responding to her
complaint, including comments that theres no guarantee of state benefits being available for
a significant period of time. She found L&Gs approach antagonistic with racist undertones.
Im not persuaded that Ms J has been singled out because of her race or nationality as result
of the way L&G addressed her complaints  and I dont think shes been treated unfairly.
There is a range of criteria for different welfare benefits and eligibility requirements vary. For
example, if Ms J was unable to work due to sickness whilst still in work, she might be entitled
to statutory sick pay but thats limited to a maximum of 28 weeks. And eligibility criteria for
benefits change from time to time. I dont think its unreasonable for L&G to raise this when
explaining their recommendations, in response to her concerns about the sale of the
policies. Nor do I think the overall tone of the correspondence was unprofessional.
Ms J also requested that L&G suspend her premiums whilst investigating her mis-sale
complaint. But L&G wasnt the underwriter of the policies, and I dont think its unreasonably
concluded that it didnt have authority to do that. However, in its letter dated 18 July L&G
accepted that it shouldve made Ms J aware of that sooner and offered to refund thepremiums she paid for the policies on 1 July 2023, which Ms J accepted. I think that was fair
and reasonable.
Putting things right
I understand that both policies were cancelled in August 2022 and Ms J was refunded
premiums paid for July 2022. On that basis, I intend to direct L&G to:
reimburse Ms J the difference in premiums for the life insurance policy shed paid for
each month and the minimum premium of £10 per month she wouldve paid (the
difference in premium) from when the policy started in 2015 to June 2022 inclusive.
pay Ms J simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the difference in premium
from the date on which each monthly premium was paid to the date on which
settlement is made.
If L&G considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any
interest paid, it should tell Ms J how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate
showing this if she asks for one. That way Ms J can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs, if appropriate.
.
I invited both parties to provide any information in response to my provisional decision. L&G 
replied saying it had nothing further to add. Ms J replied disagreeing with my provisional 
decision. In summary Ms J said:
She was happy that I intended to find that she was sold more cover than she needed 
for life insurance. However, she thought I should direct L&G to pay 80% of the 
premiums paid for life insurance as she only needed a benefit of £10,000 as opposed 
to £50,000. Alternatively, I should direct L&G to reimburse all premiums paid for life 
insurance because she shouldve been advised her that it couldnt offer her an 
appropriate product and referred her elsewhere. 
Income protection insurance was mis-sold. She was poorly advised, and L&Gs 
representative didnt attempt to properly understand her needs. Thats evidenced by 
the poor way L&Gs representative completed questionnaires. 
She was financially nave, her English was poor and shed assumed that income 
protection included losing her job (if she was made redundant). She was healthy and 
had no concerns about being unable to work due to illness. 
Shes not sure she received L&Gs letter reflecting that she didnt want to discuss 
protecting her income if she became unemployed. She wouldve raised it if she had, 
as that was her primary concern. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms J for her further points, but they dont change my thoughts on this case. For the 
reasons set out below and in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set out above 
and forms part of my final decision), I partially uphold her complaint. 
Life insuranceL&G says  and I accept  that the minimum monthly premium for life insurance wouldve 
been £10 and this wouldve provided a benefit of more than the £10,000 Ms J says she 
required. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for L&G to reimburse Ms J 80% of the 
premium paid on the basis that the policy offered five times more than the benefit she says 
needed. I have to consider what wouldve happened on the balance of probabilities if shed 
received the advice she ought to have. 
L&G couldnt have offered a life insurance policy costing less than £10 per month. And 
although Ms J says that she might have been able to get alternative cover elsewhere with a 
benefit of £10,000 - and this wouldve been cheaper  Ive seen no evidence of that from the 
time. On the balance of probabilities, if shed been recommended life insurance for £10 per 
month with a higher benefit of between £20,000 and £50,000, Im not persuaded that she 
wouldve declined it in search of less expensive cover elsewhere. 
Income protection insurance
Id considered the points Ms J has raised in relation to income protection when making my 
provisional decision as they were available to me then. Its possible that she didnt receive or 
read the letter setting L&Gs recommendations, reflecting that Ms J didnt want to discuss 
protecting your income in the event you were unable to work due to unemployment.
This letter was addressed to Ms J and, as I said in my provisional decision, Ive seen no 
compelling reason that it wasnt sent to her or that she didnt receive it. And although Ms J 
may have been healthy at the time, and says that her statutory rights as a tenant wouldve 
protected her from being swiftly evicted if she couldnt work and afford to pay her rent at the 
time, I dont think the recommendation made was unsuitable. It couldve paid out a set 
monthly benefit if she was too ill to work. Nor do I think if shed been given more information 
about the income protection policy, she wouldve chosen not to have taken it. It couldve 
been useful for her. 
Putting things right
I understand that both policies were cancelled in August 2022 and Ms J was refunded
premiums paid for July 2022. On that basis, I direct L&G to:
reimburse Ms J the difference in premium for the life insurance policy from when the 
policy started in 2015 to June 2022 inclusive.
pay Ms J simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the difference in premium for 
life insurance from the date on which each monthly premium was paid to the date on 
which settlement is made.
If L&G considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any
interest paid, it should tell Ms J how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate
showing this if she asks for one. That way Ms J can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold Ms Js complaint and direct Legal & General Partnership Services Limited 
to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman