DRN-4222311
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account and didnt credit 
his points. Hed like compensation for the closure and the points returned. 
What happened
Mr C had a credit card account with Creation. For an annual fee of £99 the card provided 
points and a free hotel stay voucher given a qualifying spend of £10,000 a year.
Mr C received a letter on 30 September 2021 which said his credit card would close on 
3 December 2021.
Mr C had already achieved the qualifying spend amount to be entitled to a hotel voucher, so 
he contacted Creation. He continued to use his card as normal, but no further points were 
received by him in his October statement.  He contacted Creation on 1 November 2021 to 
query the lack of points and was told that no benefits would be issued for cards due to close 
later in the year.
Mr C was unhappy with the response, so he complained to Creation. Creation said they had 
acted fairly in closing the account and not crediting the points.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Creations response, so he complained to our service.
After Mr C brought the complaint to our service, Creation made an offer. They offered to 
refund the account fee on a pro rata basis amounting to £46.65, transfer outstanding points if 
applicable, in Mr Cs case this was 1,666 points and they agreed Mr C was entitled to a free 
night voucher 
Mr C didnt accept the offer. Mr C explained if he thought he was getting points during the 
notice period hed have used his card for the duration and therefore earned more points. 
Mr C had stopped using his card when Creation had confirmed they wouldnt be honouring 
any further spend during the notice period. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint he originally thought the offer from 
Creation was fair. However, following further consideration, he thought Mr C should be 
compensated for being given incorrect information which led to him ceasing spending on the 
card from October 2021. Our investigator awarded Mr C £50 compensation for this. Our 
investigator thought this was fairer than averaging out Mr Cs potential monthly spend as the 
purchases werent actually made.
Creation was unhappy with the extra award of compensation. 
Mr C was unhappy with the view he still thought he should be credited for the points he 
would have accrued during the notice period.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr C and 
Creation have said before reaching my decision.
While I may not comment on everything raised, Ive thoroughly read and considered all the 
evidence and arguments from both sides. My outcome focuses on the relevant key issues, 
and on what I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial institutions as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it 
contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Creation has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Cs account. The terms explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by 
giving 60 days notice. I understand this is disappointing for Mr C however, by providing the 
full notice period here I cant say Creation have acted unfairly.
Annual Fee
Creation have offered to pay Mr C a refund of £46.65 being the pro rata fee for the card. 
Mr C disagrees with this amount. He says he should receive a larger amount as he wasnt 
able to use the card for the two-month notice period.
I appreciate Mr C is unhappy with the calculation of the refund. However, Mr C did have 
access to the card for the two-month notice period. He chose not to use the card because he 
was told he wouldnt be getting points. He is entitled to make that choice, but the card was 
available for his use and therefore the fee is correctly charged for the notice period. Because 
I think the refund is calculated correctly, I wont be asking Creation to increase this amount.
Hotel Voucher
I understand Mr C has already accepted the hotel voucher. Both parties agree that this is fair 
in the circumstances, and I agree.
Points earned
Creation have offered to credit Mr C with 1,666 points earned. And have already done so. 
However, Mr C is unhappy. He thinks he should be compensated for the extra points he 
failed to earn because he stopped using the card once he realised no more points would be 
added. Mr C says he would like the equivalent points he would have earned had he 
continued to use his card. He proposes using an average calculation of what he would have 
spent on the card which would have resulted in earned points.I accept his frustration, but Mr C didnt spend that money, he chose not to continue using his 
card. It would be unfair to award him points for potential spending that didnt actually take 
place. So, I wont be awarding him any extra points. 
However, I am of the view that Mr C was given incorrect information by Creation namely that 
he would no longer be able to earn points. Creation have argued benefits can be removed at 
any time. However, Creation now accept that Mr C should have been awarded points during 
the notice period  it follows by informing Mr C he wouldnt this was incorrect information and 
caused him inconvenience. The investigator thought Mr C should receive £50 compensation 
because of this and I agree this is a fair amount in the circumstances.
FCA principles
Mr C has said that Creation didnt follow the FCA principles in the way they dealt with him. In 
particular Principle 6 and 7. So Ive gone on to look at this aspect.  Ive set out Principle 6 
and 7 below.
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr C was unhappy that Creation didnt let him know he wouldnt be earning points following 
the notice to close his account. He thought the letter gave the impression he would still be 
earning points. 
I appreciate that Mr C is unhappy that Creation havent treated him fairly in accordance with 
Principle 6 and 7. I have already said I thought Creation gave Mr C the wrong information 
when he spoke to them in November 2021, I have awarded £50 compensation for this, I 
think thats a fair amount and I wont be increasing this further.
Putting things right
Creation should pay Mr C £46.65 as a refund for his annua fee and £50 compensation for 
the incorrect information.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold the complaint. I require Creation Financial 
Services Limited to 
Refund Mr C £46.65.
Pay Mr C £50 for the incorrect information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman