DRN-3631305
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy because Lloyds Bank PLC did not reimburse the money he transferred to a 
fraudster after he fell victim to a safe account scam.
Background
In January 2021, Mr Ls wife received a scam email purporting to be from a delivery firm and 
requesting payment for a parcel re-delivery. Mrs L provided account details for her and Mr 
Ls joint account and, as a result, had unauthorised payments made on their account (which 
have since been refunded). However a few days later, Mrs L received a call from an 
individual claiming to be from Lloyds Bank. She was advised by this individual that there was 
fraudulent activity taking place on their joint account which needed action by setting up a 
new account and transferring their funds across  which she did. Unfortunately, unknown to 
Mrs L at the time, this individual was in fact a fraudster.
Mr L has explained he entered the room just after his wife had finished transferring funds on 
their joint account and his wife told him his account was at risk also. When he asked her how 
she knew it was Lloyds, Mrs L explained the number they were being called from matched 
the number on the back of her card. On this basis Mr L followed the fraudsters instructions 
and made two payments totalling £2,750, to another account he believed had been set up in 
his name. While in the process of making a third payment, Mr Ls wife uncovered theyd 
been the victim of a scam and stopped Mr L sending any further payments.
Mr and Mrs L kept the fraudster on the phone for around another 15 minutes while they tried 
to contact Lloyds fraud department in the hopes of catching the fraudster. However after 
hours of waiting on hold they were unable to speak to anyone and had to call back the 
following morning when Lloyds fraud line was open to log a claim.
Lloyds investigated Mr Ls fraud claim (losses from their joint account have been considered 
separately) and considered its obligations to provide him with a refund. Lloyds is a signatory 
of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds says one or more of those exceptions 
applies in this case.
Lloyds has said Mr L made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing 
they were genuine. Lloyds considers that Mr L ought to have done more to verify the 
legitimacy of the caller before making the payments.
Lloyds also said it provided an effective warning that matched the scam Mr L was falling 
victim to.  The warning read as follows:
Did we call and tell you to move your money to another account?
Mr L was required to answer yes or no, and selected no. Lloyds has confirmed that when 
no is selected, follow up information will state:
Well never call you and ask you to move your money to another account.
If a caller asks you to do this, its a scam.
Mr L has acknowledged that he was aware that banks dont ask you to transfer money to 
other accounts, but has explained that he was still caught out as the fraudsters were very 
convincing. Hes also said the warning he saw when falling victim to the scam is different to 
the ones shown today and that the second part of this message Lloyds refers to (that Lloyds 
will never ask him to move funds) was not presented to him.
Lloyds has also said that during the payment process, when providing the account details 
and name for the first payment transfer, Mr L was presented with a confirmation of payee 
alert that stated:
That name doesnt match the account number. You should call the payee and check these 
details are right:
Name on the account
Account number
We may not be able to recover your money if it goes to the wrong account.
Remember: we will never ask you to move your money to a safe or holding account.
Lloyds has stated that Mr L remained on this particular screen for over two minutes, which it 
considers sufficient time to have fully considered the warning. Mr L has said he doesnt recall 
seeing this warning.
Lloyds did however accept that it could have done more to protect Mr L from financial harm 
from fraud. Its acknowledged it should have intervened when Mrs L made the prior 
payments from their joint account, which wouldve stopped these later payments on Mr Ls 
sole account from occurring. Its also acknowledged that the spending on Mr Ls account 
was unusual as he doesnt use the account to make faster payments. It therefore agreed to 
accept 50% liability for the payments made from Mr Ls account.
Mr L feels he should be refunded in full and so has referred his complaint to us. An 
investigator looked into the complaint and didnt consider Mr L had a reasonable basis for 
believing these were legitimate payments. He therefore considered the 50% split liability 
offer Lloyds had made was fair. As Mr L disagreed with the investigators opinion, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds 
should have fully reimbursed Mr L under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect Mr L from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr L was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was 
making genuine account transfers to keep his money safe and that didnt happen. But this 
isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr L to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code 
places a level of care on Mr L too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Lloyds to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, Lloyds has already accepted 50% liability of Mr Ls claim to acknowledge it 
didnt do enough to protect him. However I think Lloyds has been able to establish that it 
may choose not to fully reimburse Mr L under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded 
one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code 
applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Lloyds has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transactions Mr L made are enough to support its position 
that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments he 
made. I dont think Mr L had a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with 
was legitimate. Ill explain why.
I understand the call Mr L received was made from a spoofed telephone number and I dont 
underestimate the impact this mustve had in reassuring Mr L that this was a genuine call 
from Lloyds. However, I still need to consider whether, after this initial reassurance, there 
were enough other flags that ought to have led Mr L to have reasonable doubts and conduct 
further checks before proceeding.I understand that, prior to this scam, Mrs L had fallen victim to an email phishing scam and 
provided Mr and Mrs Ls joint banking details, which had led to unauthorised transactions on 
their account. However, until this point there had been no suspicious activity on Mr Ls sole 
account and so no reason to think this account was also at risk.
I also appreciate Mr L doesnt recall seeing the warning Lloyds states it provided  hes 
confirmed that he recalls being asked a simple question asking if he was making the 
payment as a result of a call from the bank  but insists that the second part of the warning 
message Lloyds has claimed to have provided wasnt displayed and had it been, he wouldnt 
have proceeded.
However Lloyds has presented evidence of the warnings in use at the time of this scam and 
how they wouldve been presented to Mr L. Based on the audit trail evidence Ive been 
provided with, and the fact Mr L does recall a warning being presented (albeit he doesnt 
believe it was this one), Im satisfied that what Lloyds has provided is the relevant message 
Mr L saw and that, having clicked no to the warning question, Mr L still wouldve been 
presented with a message advising that Lloyds will never ask customers to move money to 
another account. Mr L has also confirmed he was aware that banks dont ask customers to 
move money to other accounts  again while I dont underestimate how convincing the 
scammers were and the impact the spoofed number had on Mr L, I think this prior 
knowledge ought to have had some impact when Mr L received this request from the 
fraudsters and that he ought to have paused to first make further checks. 
I also understand Mr L doesnt recall seeing a message advising him that the account details 
hed been provided with didnt match the account name (as despite what he was told by the 
fraudster, the account he sent money to was never in his own name). However, again Lloyds 
has provided audit trail evidence that demonstrates this check was completed and that 
details provided didnt match the intended account. Im therefore confident this information 
was presented to Mr L when making the first payment to this new account. Lloyds has also 
been able to provide specific information on when this warning was provided to Mr L, and 
evidence that it remained on the screen for just over two minutes. This warning also 
highlights that Lloyds will never ask its customers to move money to a safe account.
Overall, while I dont dispute the power a spoofed number wouldve had on Mr Ls decision 
making, I think the red flags that followed this were enough that Mr L ought to have 
reasonably made further enquiries before proceeding with making the payments.
I understand Mr L is very frustrated that despite keeping the fraudsters on the phone for over 
15 minutes after uncovering the scam, he was unable to contact Lloyds in order for any 
traces or blocks to be applied to the beneficiary account. I also entirely understand how 
upsetting it must have been for Mr L to not be able to make contact with anyone that evening 
to log a fraud claim. Ive thought about whether the time taken to contact Lloyds has had any 
impact on Lloyds ability to recover any of the funds Mr L lost to the fraudster.
When reporting a scam to a bank, wed expect that bank to contact the receiving account 
provider without delay, to make them aware of the fraud, so that receiving account provider 
can attempt to block any further payments being made from the account. Had Lloyds spoke 
to Mr L while still on the phone to the fraudster, I dont think there would be anything further 
Lloyds wouldve been able to do other than raise a claim with the receiving bank  once 
transfers are made from an account, theres no way for that bank to recall them. In terms of 
tracing an account, this can be done quite simply by the receiving account provider using the 
account details the funds were sent to  so I dont think there was anything further Lloyds 
couldve obtained from Mr L while on the phone to the fraudster that would have helped in 
the recovery of his funds.I have however thought about whether further funds wouldve been recovered had Lloyds 
provided a quicker response to Mr L and logged the claim the same evening the scam 
occurred. Having reviewed the available evidence, I can see the payments Mr L made were 
at 21:09 and 21:19. Having contacted the beneficiary account provider it was sent to, I can 
see those funds were removed again at 21:14 and 21:30. Unfortunately this means that for 
any of Mr Ls funds to have been recoverable, Mr L wouldve needed to contact Lloyds, have 
them establish that theyd been the victim of a scam, log the claim and contact the 
beneficiary account provider all within this timeframe, as well as for the beneficiary account 
provider to take action. Sadly this just wouldnt be feasible within around an 11 minute 
window from that second payment taking place to funds being removed. So while I truly 
sympathise with Mr L for the distress the delays caused him when contacting Lloyds, I dont 
think it had any impact on what funds were available for recovery. 
Overall, to summarise, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Mr L met his requisite 
level of care when making the payments to the fraudster and I therefore think a 50% split of 
liability between Lloyds and Mr L is a fair and reasonable outcome for his fraud claim under 
the CRM code.
I do sympathise with Mr L as hes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. But the 
circumstances of the case and the evidence available lead me to find that he should also be 
held liable for some of those losses incurred.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman