DRN-2104959
The complaint
Mr L says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr L bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint because:
I think Capital One made Mr L aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because Mr L applied for his credit card by post, and he ticked the box 
to say that he wanted the cover. There was another box next to the one Mr L ticked, 
that he couldve completed if he hadnt wanted the PPI. So I think Mr L wouldve 
realised he had a choice about buying the PPI.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. That means it didnt have to ask about any sick pay or other benefits 
Mr L might have been entitled to.
But even if Capital One had recommended the PPI to Mr L, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Even 
though hed told me he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, the PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to those benefits and would do so, it seems for longer. So I think Mr 
L wouldve had some use for the PPI despite his existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr L would have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman