DRN-1211814
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the service she was provided by British Gas Services Limited when 
they carried out an annual service on her boiler  which is covered by her insurance policy. 
Mrs M is being represented in her complaint by Mr M.
What happened
In March 2019 British Gas carried out an annual service on Mrs Ms boiler. Around five 
weeks later, Mr M said the boiler failed to ignite. A British Gas engineer said the gas valve 
had failed and needed replacing. 
They replaced the valve the next day but when carrying out tests on the boiler they found the 
emissions readings were high. The engineer discovered the flue was in a poor condition and 
needed replacing  which they did the next day. Mr M says he was told by the engineer they 
thought the problem with the flue had existed for some time  and if properly carried out, an 
emissions test would have shown raised CO levels.
Mr M raised a complaint. He felt the engineer should have noticed the issues with the flue 
and the high emissions during the annual service.
British Gas said due to the age of the boiler it was likely the flue was faulty, and beginning to 
deteriorate, at the time of the service. But as the emissions readings were within a normal 
range when the service was carried out, there would have been no reason for the first 
engineer to suspect there was a fault with the flue - so they wouldnt have been required to 
check it. 
British Gas said it was likely the flue developed a hole after the service. This would have led 
to the issue with the faulty gas valve and increased emissions which meant the second 
engineer could identify the issue with the flue and replace it. 
They commented the second engineer shouldnt have said the fault shouldve been identified 
during the service. To say sorry for the inconvenience and stress caused by the engineers 
comments they offered Mrs M £30.
Mr M was unhappy the damage to the flue wasn't noticed during the annual service and
thinks it's unlikely the damage happened after, so he brought the complaint to our service. 
He also provided some information given by friend - a retired engineer.
Our Investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He said as British Gas 
carried out inspections on the boiler, he felt more persuaded by their opinion and he was 
satisfied the annual service had been carried out as it should have. Our Investigator did 
agree that British Gas engineer shouldnt have worried Mr M by telling them the readings 
would have been high at the time of the service. But as the replacement flue was fitted the 
next day, he felt British Gas offer of £30 was fair.Mr M didnt agree with our Investigator. He didnt think the readings taken at the time of the 
service were genuine and the test wasnt carried out properly. He said the second engineer 
was the only person who had dismantled the boiler and carried out a more thorough 
inspection  so wouldve been best informed.  He said if everything was functioning normally 
the high emissions shouldnt have occurred, the fact it did pointed to another issue - the 
defective flue.
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of detailed points. I want to reassure Mr M that Ive considered all 
of them, but Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this 
complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service and my role in it.
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will be disappointing, but Ill explain why. To 
avoid any doubt, I can confirm I have considered the evidence Mr M provided from his friend, 
but as the British Gas engineers have carried out inspections of the boiler, I think theyre the 
most reliable opinion of whats likely to have happened at the time. So, Ill be focusing on 
what theyve said in my decision.
Mrs Ps policy says the annual service will include testing the gases the appliance or boiler 
produces. It also says If the visit shows that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler 
apart to adjust or clean it, well do so.
The first engineer carried out the service and the emissions test reported normal levels. 
British Gas safety assurance team also confirmed the levels on the report were normal. As 
the levels were normal Its reasonable the engineer didnt think it was necessary to take the 
boiler apart  so they didnt. 
Mr M said he didnt think the readings taken at the time of the service were genuine and the 
test wasnt carried out properly. He said the second engineer said the test wouldve shown 
raised emissions levels if properly carried out. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me 
it wasnt carried out properly.
Mr M said the second engineer mentioned the issue had perhaps existed, to a lesser 
degree, when the boiler was serviced  and British Gas said it was likely the flue was 
beginning to deteriorate at the time. They said a hole developed which would have led to the 
increase of the emissions, allowing the second engineer to identify the issue.
The emissions reported at the time of the service were normal. And considering the length of 
time between the service, the issues arising around five weeks later, and the age of the 
boiler (over 20 years old), I dont think what British Gas said is unreasonable. So, Im 
persuaded by what they have said. 
The first engineers emissions readings were normal, so I dont think there was anything to 
suggest they should have carried out further work. And Im satisfied its more likely than not 
the issue with the flue and the increase in emissions is something that happened after the 
service. So, I dont think British Gas have done anything wrong here. British Gas has offered Mrs M £30 compensation for the worry their engineers comments 
may have caused. I think this is a fair amount, so I wont be asking British Gas to make any 
further payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman