DRN-3147509
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of R, a limited company, that Allied World Assurance Company 
(Europe) dac (Allied World) unfairly voided and terminated Rs buildings insurance policy.
  
What happened
R is a company which was formed by the leaseholders of a residential building, in order to
manage the property after experiences of poor service from previous managing agents.
In March 2020, R instructed its brokers to seek renewal of its building insurance policy. An
underwriting agent was contacted and a Property Owners policy with Allied World was taken
out, commencing in April 2020.
In June 2020, R sought registration with the governments Building Safety Fund, due to the
building not holding an External Wall Fire Review certificate. This was making it difficult for
leaseholders to sell or remortgage their properties.
Following this, a report was issued in October 2020, confirming that a number of remedial
alterations to the external construction of the building would be required in order for the
certificate to be granted. These findings were shared with Allied World, after which the
insurer decided to cancel and void the policy with immediate effect, in November 2020.
Allied World said it had made clear in communications that cover was conditional upon there
being no EPS material in the external construction of the building. R says it made it clear
which materials were used in the construction when it passed on information to its brokers 
and that same information was passed on to Allied World before inception of the policy.
Unhappy with Allied Worlds response to its complaint, R referred the complaint to this
service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He
said the level of developed commercial knowledge of the management company meant it
shouldve known itd need to provide further detail about the presence of combustible 
materials. R didnt agree with our investigators assessment and so the complaint was 
referred to me.
I considered what both sides had said and issued my provisional decision on 17 September 
2021, explaining that I intended to uphold the complaint. In that provisional decision I wrote:
The determination I need to make here is whether Allied World acted fairly in voiding Rs
policy due to non-disclosure. In order to do that I need to decide whether it was reasonable
for Allied World to conclude, based on the available evidence, that R misrepresented the risk
to Allied World when taking out the policy.
The relevant law that applies to this situation is the Insurance Act 2015. And the test within
that legislation, which I must apply to the facts of this case, is whether the policyholder (in
this case R) discharged its duty of fair presentation  that is, whether R made a fair
presentation of the risk to the insurer when it took out the policy.
In order to discharge that duty, R wouldve had to disclose either:
everything they knew, or ought to have known, that would influence the judgment of
the insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries
about potentially material circumstances.
Allied World voided the policy on the basis that the construction type of the building (the risk)
was misrepresented to it before inception of the policy. It says it highlighted to Rs broker on
two separate occasions that cover would be subject to the panels not being made from
polystyrene or combustible materials. It then received a report following Rs registration with
the government Building Safety Fund, which confirmed that the panels contained expanded
polystyrene  a combustible material. The policy was therefore voided and a full refund of
premiums was given to R.
Mr M says, on behalf of R, that a document was provided to its brokers  and I can see that
the same document was also passed on to Allied World in an email dated 16 March 2020.
The document contains numerous references to EPS or expanded polystyrene, as well as
references to polystyrene. I appreciate that the document is 24 pages long  however in
the email from the broker to Allied World, the broker specifically points to pages 18, 19, 21
and 22 as the pages containing information about the relevant materials. I cannot therefore
see how it hasnt met the test of providing enough information to put an insurer on notice
that it needs to make further enquiries.
I also dont consider that Allied World then took this information to make further enquiries. I
can see it mentioned EPS by email on the two occasions it refers to. However, it didnt ask
any questions which needed to be responded to. If it did not receive sufficient information
from the broker in response to the emails mentioning EPS, that is an issue it shouldve taken
up with the broker at the time, asking further questions to clarify this (even though I consider
the information to have been readily available in the document that was sent across).
I dont have any evidence that Allied World sought to clarify the existence of EPS with the
broker, instead making statements such as It is a risk we can potentially consider on the
basis the exterior panels are not EPS. And I havent seen any evidence that it received 
positive confirmation that there were no combustible materials  despite telling us the broker
confirmed this. As far as I can see, R met its obligations in providing sufficient information
that couldve influenced the insurers decision to offer cover, because the information was
contained within the document and on the specific pages highlighted to the insurer. So I
dont currently think the decision to void the policy on the basis that there was a
misrepresentation is fair and I intend to require Allied World to reverse this decision.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ms request that I consider the immense stress and anxiety
which he says Allied World caused to the leaseholders of the building. However, this
complaint is brought by R, a limited company and therefore not a natural person, and so I
cant make an award for distress, pain or suffering as these are not things a limited company
can experience, even if its directors and employees have experienced the impact of the
insurers actions individually.
However, Mr M has made the point that the leaseholders were left without cover in the event
of what wouldve otherwise been insured perils, and were also left potentially in breach of
their mortgage terms and conditions. I can consider the fact that R has been caused
reputational damage by the allegation of misrepresentation and the voidance of the policy.
Leaseholders in the building which R manages would have understandably been worried
and anxious about the lack of insurance and I can appreciate how this wouldve resulted in a
lack of trust in the management company and damage to its reputation. For this I think AlliedWorld should pay R £250 in compensation.
Ive also considered the inconvenience of Rs repeated attempts to obtain alternative cover,
which Im pleased to hear have led to R being able to secure cover with another insurer. I
can consider the inconvenience caused to a company, as its clear to me that in this case,
time and effort was diverted from its normal activities. The inconvenience spanned over the
course of several months, from November 2020 when Allied World cancelled the policy until
recently this year when R was able to source alternative cover. So I think for this level of
inconvenience, and because I think the decision to void the policy was unfair, Allied World
should pay £500 compensation to R.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Allied World said, in summary:
It would pay the compensation set out in the provisional decision, without prejudice to 
the following points.
It had no underwriting risk appetite for buildings with any fire safety issues  such as 
the use of combustible materials.
If Allied World had been aware of what it considers to be newly disclosed facts in 
relation to those fire safety issues, it would not have provided cover in the first place.
The insured only disclosed those facts eight months into the period of cover.
The report referenced in my provisional decision is generic and carries little weight as 
it is over twenty years old, but was reviewed by Allied Worlds underwriter. Allied 
World has also said such reports are often unreliable due to various discrepancies 
found within them  including in relation to materials used in construction.
The report contains a significant error  which is that the construction of the walls 
used rockwool boards which is not a combustible material and that this was central to 
the underwriters assessment of the risk. 
References to expanded polystyrene (or EPS) are confusing and the test certificate 
does not mention EPS or combustible material.
The insured selectively held back and then drip-fed material facts to the insurer.
  
Mr M also said, on behalf of R, in response to my provisional decision:
He agreed with my provisional findings.
R was no longer seeking reinstatement of cover as the policy has expired and it had 
obtained alternative cover.
He was concerned that if Allied World does reverse its decision to void the policy 
then R may be held liable for repayment of the premiums which were refunded when 
the original decision to void the policy was taken.
Ive considered what both parties have said in response to my provisional decision, but I 
havent seen anything which makes me think the complaint shouldnt be upheld. So, Ive 
decided to uphold the complaint in line with my provisional findings. Ill explain why.
Allied World has said the report produced before inception of the policy shouldnt be relied 
on, as its twenty years old, generic and contradictory. However, as I said in my provisional 
decision, the test I have to apply in this case is whether R disclosed enough information to 
put the insurer on notice that it may need to make further enquiries. And, looking at the 
specifications document which was sent to Allied World prior to the inception of the policy, I can see that although the test certificate on page 18 does not refer to EPS or combustible 
materials, pages 19, 20 and 21 of the same document  pages which were specifically 
highlighted to the insurer  contain numerous references to EPS. 
Based on the knowledge and experience of the policyholder, which I consider to be less than 
the developed level of commercial knowledge many management companies might hold (R 
was made up of private individuals/homeowners who had taken over management of the 
building) I think the information highlighted within the specification document constituted 
enough information to put the insurer on notice in this case that it may need to ask further 
questions or obtain further details. So I dont agree that R only disclosed material facts eight 
months into the period of cover.
I also cant see that Allied World asked any direct and clear questions once its underwriter 
had reviewed the specifications document, despite telling me the references to EPS were 
contradictory or confusing. I would think it reasonable for Allied World to have asked further 
questions about the existence of combustible materials prior to arranging cover, if it wasnt 
certain about this, rather than making the statements it made in subsequent 
correspondence, which were not positioned in such a way to require an answer from Rs 
broker at the time.
It follows therefore that I think the second part of the test in the Insurance Act 2015 was met 
and that R discharged its duty of fair presentation by providing enough information to Allied 
World. So Im going to require Allied World to put things right as Ive set out in my provisional 
decision and below. I should also clarify that I dont think it would be fair for Allied World to 
seek to recover any of the premiums it refunded when the policy was voided, as R hasnt 
benefited from the policy.
 
Putting things right
Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac must now:
Overturn its decision to void Rs policy. In doing so it must also remove any record of 
an allegation of misrepresentation by R and update its reporting accordingly so that R 
will no longer need to disclose to insurers that a misrepresentation occurred or that 
the policy was cancelled. It should confirm to R in writing when records have been 
updated and it should also write off any premiums owed to it in light of the policy no 
longer being cancelled.
Pay R £250 compensation for damage to reputation.
Pay R £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused to it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac to put 
things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman