DRN-4071760
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) couldnt find her late 
mothers account. 
What happened
In November 2022, Mrs K had three accounts with Nationwide  a Flex account, a FlexPlus 
account and a 60 plus savings account. The circumstances of her complaint concern the 
FlexPlus account and 60 plus savings account.
She visited a branch of Nationwide on 2 December 2022 and transferred £5,220.09 from her 
60 plus savings account to her Flex Plus account. The 60 plus savings account was then 
closed. Mrs K called Nationwide on the same day and asked, what happened to the £4,500 
in the book account? (i.e. a passbook account). Nationwides call handler said he would 
send a new passbook for the 60 plus savings account.
Mrs K complained. She said there was an account in the name of herself and her late 
mother  who died in 2013. In it, there was a balance of £4,500 and that was the money she 
wanted to transfer to her other Nationwide accounts. The branch then shredded the 
passbook  so there isnt any remaining record of the account in the name of her mother and 
herself. She wants the account located and the money paid to her.
Nationwide said that when they were notified of the death of Mrs Ks mother, they would 
have paid the money in the account to the personal representative(s) of Mrs Ks mother. But 
because so much time had passed, they no longer held any details of Mrs Ks mothers 
account. So  there wasnt anything more they could do.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Nationwide acted reasonably. Mrs K 
didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me 
to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs K made the transfer of £5,220.09 between her 60 plus savings account to 
her Flex Plus account on 2 December 2022. Ive listened to the subsequent call Mrs K made 
to Nationwide later that day. In it, Mrs K appears confused as between the transfer for 
£5220.09 she made - and that she said she wanted Nationwide to locate her mothers 
account and have that money paid to her. So - I will concentrate on the crux of her complaint 
 that she believed that her late mothers account was still open and had a balance of 
£4,500 in it, and she wants that money paid to her.
We took a testimony from the branch about Mrs Ks visit. The branch staff say they searched 
for Mrs Ks late mothers account at the time and couldnt find anything. We asked 
Nationwide more about that  and they said that her late mothers account didnt exist in their 
records. This was due to the time that had gone by since she died in 2013. 
Nationwide told us that if such an account still existed and had a balance in it  it could still 
be found. But  such an account couldnt be found. Ive seen evidence that Nationwide 
searched their records  and couldnt find anything.
Nationwide said their process is that when the death of an account holder is advised to 
them, they pay the balance to the personal representatives of the late customer. And 
therefore that is likely what happened in this case. Because of the passage of time 
Nationwide cant tell us who the personal representative(s) were  as the records havent 
been kept from 2013. 
Its not clear what happened to the passbook held by Mrs K. She says that the branch 
shredded it, but the branch testimony doesnt say that. But in any case, I dont think the 
existence of a passbook - or not  is evidence that an account was still open. It is often the 
case that an old passbook still exists a long time after an account is closed.
So, on the balance of probability, Im persuaded that this is what happened - that the 
balance of Mrs Ks late mothers account was paid to the personal representative(s) after her 
death, and that there isnt any evidence that an account was held in 2022  when Mrs K 
visited the branch.
I hope Mrs K finds this explanation and decision clear and helpful. I know my decision will be 
disappointing for her. But - I am not asking Nationwide to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman