DRN-3262173
The complaint
Mr S complains that JD Williams & Company Limited (JD Williams), provided him with an 
increased credit limit on a catalogue shopping account that he could not afford.
What happened
In December 2017 JD Williams approved a catalogue shopping account with an initial limit of 
£200 for Mr S. It then increased that limit six times until it reached £1,500 in August 2019. It 
appears that JD Williams agreed a payment arrangement with Mr S at some point in 2019 
when he ran into difficulties maintaining repayments. I understand the outstanding debt was 
ultimately sold to a third party. Ive included a table showing the limit increases for ease of 
understanding:
Event Date New limit
Account opened December 2017 £200
1st limit increase January 2018 £300
2nd limit increase February 2018 £500
3rd limit increase March 2018 £700
4th limit increase April 2018 £1,000
5th limit increase May 2018 £1,400
6th limit increase August 2019 £1,500
After JD Williams rejected his complaint, Mr S brought the case to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the evidence and thought that JD Williams should not have increased 
Mr Ss credit limit on the final occasion in August 2019. JD Williams didnt accept that, saying 
that the outcome hadnt been properly explained, and asked that the case be passed to an 
Ombudsman for review.
The first five limit increases are no longer in dispute, and this decision wont be dealing with 
them in any detail.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint in part and Ill explain why.
JD Williams is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of these credit limit increases, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), so I wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient 
checks to ensure that Mr S would be able to repay the borrowing it was making available 
to him in a sustainable way. 
The adjudicator thought that JD Williams was aware of enough concerning information by 
August 2019 to identify that no further increase in borrowing  even just £100  could be 
deemed to be responsible lending. He highlighted several issues, including Mr S having 
been over his credit limit, and that Mr S seemed to have almost only ever made minimum 
repayments on the account.
JD Williams objected strongly to this, underlining that, under the relevant regulations, 
making minimum repayments cannot automatically be considered to be a sign of financial 
difficulties. And that, in fact, there were no signs of any difficulties in Mr Ss operation of the 
account.
I disagree. JD Williams is right in its citing of the regulations and the making of minimum 
repayments. However, holistically, the overall picture of Mr Ss borrowing by 2019 is not a 
positive one. And it is clear that JD Williams own internal assessment system was raising 
concerns. 
I particularly note the following:
Whilst he made regular payments until the autumn of 2019, each payment was 
small, and seems likely to have been the minimum required under the credit 
agreement. Mr Ss payments were clearly not making any inroads into the 
increasing amount he owed and very clearly do not suggest sustainable borrowing. 
Whilst this alone may not indicate unsustainable borrowing, it is relevant to my 
considerations.
JD Williams ongoing monitoring of Mr Ss credit file showed a significant escalation 
in his overall indebtedness between October 2018 and August 2019, rising from 
£1,669 to a consistent level of over £10,000 respectively. That should have been a 
clear flag to JD Williams that there were potential issues.
Mr S exceeded his credit limit in July 2019, which JD Williams has attempted to 
dismiss by highlighting that was because of an interest charge, presumably as 
opposed to additional purchases. I find this attitude a strange one, as the cause of 
the limit excess does not necessarily remove concerns about the sustainability of 
the borrowing under scrutiny. This is a clear flag of poor financial management and 
difficulties with the existing credit limit.
JD Williams operates a form of account management which it says indicates, 
month by month, the maximum it can responsibly lend to its customers. It refers to 
this maximum as a shadow limit. I can see that from January to July 2019 
inclusive, Mr Ss actual credit limit exceeded this shadow limit. So JD Williams own 
systems were flagging that he could not afford the borrowing it was providing, and 
yet it didnt respond to that. For the first few months of 2019, Mr Ss borrowing was 
substantially below the shadow limit, so JD Williams could have acted in 
accordance with its own assessment and reduced his credit limit. It didnt. For the 
month of August 2019 the shadow limit inexplicably rose to £1,500, which is, of 
course when the final limit increase occurred. It then quickly dropped back down in 
September 2019.
Ive explained what sustainable borrowing (and therefore lending) looks like under the 
regulations in force at the time. On balance, Im satisfied that by August 2019 JD Williams 
had sufficient indications that this borrowing was not sustainable for Mr S, and should not 
have increased the credit limit on this account. It therefore follows that I uphold this 
complaint in part.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr S, JD Williams must do the following:
Rework the account to remove all interest and charges (including any BNPL interest) incurred on the account since 28 August 2019 on balances exceeding £1,400.
If after the rework the balance would have been cleared, JD Williams must refund 
any overpayments to Mr S with 8% simple interest per year*, calculated from the date 
of overpayment to the date of settlement.
If this rework means that Mr S owes no more money, JD Williams must remove 
adverse information about this account from 28 August 2019 onwards from Mr Ss 
credit file.
If after the adjustment an outstanding balance remains, JD Williams must try to 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. This may involve JD Williams 
repurchasing the debt from a third party, or liaising with that third party to ensure the 
above steps are undertaken. Once the balance has been fully cleared, any adverse 
information about the account should be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires JD Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct JD Williams Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman