DRN-3410520
The complaint
Miss B complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined her claim for the cost of 
veterinary treatment on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B was very upset when her pet passed away. Itd required treatment but when she tried 
to reclaim the vets costs from her insurer she was declined. Fairmead said the symptoms 
had been apparent during the first 14 days of her taking out the pet insurance policy and it 
wasnt covered. 
Miss B said she accepted the symptoms may have possibly been related. But her pets 
health had been improving after advice from her vet. And they felt the cause of death was 
inconclusive. So she wants Fairmead to settle her claim and refund the costs shes had to 
pay.
Fairmead said it believed the onset signs or symptoms of the pets liver failure were when 
itd started vomiting. And thatd taken place during the first 14 days of the start of the policy. 
A blood test a few days later showed elevated liver values. And an ultrasound scan had 
confirmed the liver wasnt functioning well and the condition clearly hadnt developed 
overnight. 
Fairmead said the policy wording was clear. And unfortunately the first signs were within the 
exclusion period at the start of the policy cover. After reassessing the situation Fairmead felt 
itd declined the claim fairly.
Miss B wasnt satisfied with Fairmeads response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator was sorry to hear of Miss Bs loss. She 
looked at the wording of the policy and the medical evidence considered by Fairmead. And 
although it wasnt possible to be certain if the vomiting was the first clinical signs of the 
illness she didnt think Fairmead had been unreasonable in concluding it was linked to the 
liver problems. 
Our investigator felt Fairmead had acted fairly in assessing the claim and declining it in line 
with the policy wording. So she said she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Miss B didnt agree with our investigator. The vet had been unable to confirm that any 
symptoms could be linked to her pets death. And hed stopped being sick when, on the vets 
advice, his food had been changed. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I want to say Im sorry about the upset this complaint has caused Miss B. I understand 
the claim has arisen following the death of her pet. 
I can appreciate how Fairmeads decision to decline her claim will have made a difficult 
situation even more upsetting. But for me to be able to say Fairmead has done something 
wrong here, Id need to see that its decision failed to follow the terms and conditions of the 
pet insurance policy. And on this occasion I dont think thats the case. 
Fairmead said it had looked at the pets clinical history. And the decision to decline the claim 
had been confirmed by its assessors and the policy underwriter.
I can see from the policy documents that the pet insurance policy excludes any death 
caused by an illness/clinical signs first noticed before the commencement date or within the 
first 14 days of the policy commencement date (waiting period). 
The waiting period is further defined as a period of 14 days starting from the 
commencement date of the initial policy period during which an illness occurs or shows 
clinical signs or symptoms; this will be excluded from cover unless otherwise agreed by us.
The welcome pack sent to Miss B when she took out the policy also warns that Fairmead 
wont pay for any claims or incidents for an illness that occurred before the start of the policy, 
or within 14 days of the start of the policy.
This isnt an unusual term for this type of policy. Most policies wont insure a pet for 
conditions that started before the policy began, or within a set period of the policy starting.
Looking at the medical history I can see the pet first began vomiting on 16 May  within 14 
days of the policy starting on 4 May. And Miss B submitted a claim for treatment later in May 
and in June for liver failure. 
Fairmead believes the vomiting was the first sign or symptom of the liver problems that 
Miss Bs pet experienced. Although the first blood tests didnt show liver cirrhosis, the 
second blood test a few weeks later did. And the first test did show elevated liver enzymes  
which can indicate ongoing liver disease and vomiting is a symptom of this.
Miss B accepts that the symptoms could be related. But she says it isnt possible to be sure. 
And her vet wasnt certain whether the two were related. But I dont think its likely the liver 
condition developed suddenly. It was most likely present, even if Miss B was unaware, 
before she started the pet insurance policy.
Where its not possible to be sure exactly whats taken place, our service will look at the 
evidence to decide whats most likely to have happened. Based on what Ive seen I dont 
think Fairmead acted unreasonably in deciding the vomiting was the first sign of the liver 
disease Miss B claimed for. And as itd occurred during the 14-day waiting period, the 
treatment was therefore excluded from the cover.
I do appreciate how upsetting this has been for Miss B. And I realise she will be disappointed 
with this decision. But taking everything into account Im satisfied Fairmead has shown its 
likely Miss Bs pet was showing signs before the end of the 14-day waiting period. 
If follows that I dont think Fairmead has acted unfairly or outside of the terms of the pet 
insurance policy in declining Miss Bs claim based on the medical information provided. And 
I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman