DRN-4325539
The Complaint
Mr T says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) (the Business) didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to 
the purchase of a holiday product in 2016 (the Time of Sale).
Background to the Complaint
Mr T purchased a timeshare from a timeshare provider (the Supplier) at the 
Time of Sale using a credit card provided by the Business (the Credit Agreement).
The purchase agreement entered into by Mr T was made between him and the Supplier. But 
it stipulated that all payments had to be made in favour of another business that Ill call the 
Trustee.
Mr T made payments (using his credit card) of £2,400 and £7,200 on 20 April and 
10 May 2016 to the Trustee.
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr T  using a professional representative (PR)  wrote to the 
Business in late 2018 to complain (the Letter of Claim). The reasons for the complaint at 
that time are familiar to both sides. So, I dont intend to repeat them in detail here. But, in 
summary, Mr T argued that there had been misrepresentations and a breach of contract by 
the Supplier.
The Business treated the Letter of Claim as a claim under Section 75 of the CCA and 
rejected it. But as the two sides couldnt resolve things between them, a complaint was 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It was then looked at by an investigator who 
wasnt persuaded to uphold the complaint.
PR disagreed with the investigators view and referred to a number of regulatory breaches 
when doing so. And as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 26 July 2023 rejecting the complaint on the basis 
that there wasnt the right arrangement between the Business and the Supplier to engage 
the protections afforded to consumers under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. And, given 
the facts and circumstances of this complaint, I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable to 
find that the Business was responsible for the Suppliers alleged failings at the Time of Sale, 
when the law doesnt impose such a liability on the Business in the absence of a relevant 
connection between it and the Supplier. 
As the deadline for responses to my PD has been and gone, and as neither side had 
anything new to add, Ive reconsidered the complaint for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think it should be upheld for the same reasons I gave in my 
PD.
The CCA introduced a regime of connected lender liability under Sections 56, 75 and 140A
that afforded consumers (debtors) a right of recourse against lenders (creditors) that
provide the finance for the acquisition of goods or services from a third-party merchant 
(the supplier).
On the face of it, Mr T only made claims under Section 75 of the CCA when he first 
complained to the Business. But the Letter of Claim did include an allegation that the 
contract entered into between the Supplier and Mr T contained unfair contract terms  which, 
in my view, doesnt fall neatly under that provision. So, while I acknowledge that the 
Letter of Claim doesnt expressly refer to Section 140A, its difficult to make sense of some 
of that letter if its only construed with Section 75 in mind.
However, in order to engage the connected lender liability under Sections 75 and 140A
(given the fact that the allegations relevant to a claim under Section 140A relate to the acts 
and/or omissions of the Supplier rather than the Business), one of the pre-conditions is the 
existence of a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS Agreement).
In light of the High Court case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank plc [2022] EWHC
2519 (Steiner), Im not persuaded there was a DCS Agreement between Mr T, the Business
and the Supplier. And as that means the Business didnt and doesnt have any responsibility
for the CCA claims in question, I still dont think it needs to do anything to put things right in 
this complaint.
A DCS Agreement is defined by Section 12(b) of the CCA as a restricted-use credit 
agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing 
arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the supplier
[].
Section 11(1)(b) of the CCA says that a restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated credit 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor [] and restricted-use credit shall be construed accordingly.
In Steiner, the High Court looked at the application of Sections 56, 75 and 140A of the CCA 
and considered the circumstances in which the necessary arrangement can be said to exist.
The late claimant purchased a timeshare from Club La Costa (CLC) for £14,000 using his 
Mastercard, which had been issued by a creditor Ill call Bank N.
So, in accordance with the CCA, Bank N was the creditor, the late claimant was the 
debtor and CLC was the supplier.
But rather than paying CLC directly, the £14,000 payment was made by the late claimant
(using his Bank N Mastercard) to the same trustee (as the Trustee in this complaint) under a 
Deed of Trust to which CLC was a beneficiary.
As a result, the estate of the late claimant (the Estate) had to demonstrate that the credit 
agreement fell within the meaning of Section 12(b) of the CCA i.e., that it was made
under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements between 
Bank N and CLC.But the High Court wasnt persuaded the Estate had done that. And in reaching that 
conclusion, the Court held that arrangements could not be stretched so far as to mean that
[Bank N] made its agreement with the late [claimant] under the Deed of Trust (of which it 
was presumably unaware) as well as under the Mastercard network.
The central question in Steiner and in this complaint, therefore, is not whether 
"arrangements" existed between the creditor (i.e., the Business) and the timeshare provider 
(i.e., the Supplier) when the holiday product was sold (i.e., at the Time of Sale). Instead, the 
question posed by Section 12(b) is whether the relevant credit agreement was made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between it and the timeshare provider.
In other words, the starting point for the purposes of Section 12(b) is the date the Business 
and Mr T entered into the Credit Agreement  rather than the Time of Sale.
Yet, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, it is difficult to argue that the Business 
issued Mr T with his credit card and entered into the Credit Agreement relating to that card 
under, or in contemplation of, any arrangements other than the relevant card network. And 
while there may well have been arrangements between the Business and the Trustee 
(i.e., the relevant card network) and arrangements between the Trustee and the Supplier 
(the Trust), as the High Court recognised in Steiner, the natural and ordinary meaning of 
Section 12(b) did not extend to saying that the Business entered into the Credit Agreement 
with Mr T under both the relevant card network and the Trust or in contemplation of the 
Trust.
I continue to recognise that the judgment in Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank Plc 
[2007] QB 1 (OFT v Lloyds TSB) by the Court of Appeal is authority for the proposition that 
there can be arrangements between a creditor and a supplier without there being a direct 
contract between them. But a significant feature of the factual situation addressed in 
OFT v Lloyds TSB was that all parties to the card network in question in that case were party 
to the same network, whether or not they had direct contractual relations with one another.
That network, which had rules, constituted arrangements between all of its members. 
So, it was said by the High Court in Steiner that OFT v Lloyds TSB isnt authority for the 
proposition that, if there are arrangements between a creditor and X, and if there are also 
arrangements between X and a supplier, then it necessarily follows that there are 
arrangements between the creditor and the supplier.
As I said in my PD, under Section 187 of the CCA, there are also ways in which there might 
exist a DCS Agreement even if a supplier isnt paid directly using a credit card. For example, 
if the Supplier and the Trustee were associates as defined by Section 184 of the CCA, 
there might have been the right arrangement in place at the right time. But I still havent seen 
anything to persuade me thats likely to have been the case here.
Overall, therefore, given the facts and circumstances of this complaint, I still dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to find that the Business was and is responsible for the 
Suppliers alleged failings at the Time of Sale when the law doesnt impose such a liability on 
the Business in the absence of a relevant connection between it and the Supplier. And
with that being the case, I dont think the Business needs to do anything to put things right in
this complaint.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman