DRN-4479646
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DG) 
under a protection policy for his tablet device.
References to DG include their agents who administer policies and carry out services under 
policies.
This decision covers Mr Ps complaint against DG as the insurer of his protection policy for 
his tablet device. It doesnt cover the provider of his TV service, a separate business.
What happened
Mr P had a protection policy with DG that covered breakdown and repairs to a number of 
devices, including his tablet. In June 2023 Mr P had an issue with his tablet, which wouldnt 
hold a charge, meaning he was unable to download any data from it or create a backup of 
data. He contacted DG to explain the problem and that the data on the tablet included 
contents of sentimental value, including photos and videos. DG logged the need for a repair 
and said theyd send Mr P further information about how the tablet would be repaired. He 
subsequently received instructions from a repair agent (G).
Given his concern about the data stored on the tablet, he enclosed a note when sending the 
tablet to G, asking them to contact him before any changes were made to the tablet that 
might erase the data. G contacted Mr P to say theyd need to perform a factory reset in order 
to repair the tablet, due to data protection requirements. Mr P asked G to cancel the repair 
and return the tablet to him. But G said theyd have to erase the data even if the repair was 
cancelled. Mr P asked G to pause the repair while he contacted the administrator of the 
policy, who said theyd call him back. When he did speak with them, they contacted G for 
them to arrange return of his tablet.
A date was agreed for return of his tablet, and Mr P confirmed he gave his consent for G to 
return the tablet without performing a factory reset. He also confirmed that if the device went 
missing, he accepted full responsibility for the loss of any data on the tablet. However, when 
Mr P returned home in the evening of the agreed date, he found a card from the delivery 
company saying a parcel had been left in a safe place, at the side of the garage at his 
property. However, Mr P couldnt find any parcel. He subsequently received an email with a 
photograph of the parcel amongst some other (waste) materials, but when he looked in the 
location, the parcel wasnt there. G emailed Mr P to say he should report the tablet as having 
been stolen to the police.
Unhappy at what had happened and the loss of his tablet, Mr G complained to DG.
DG didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said G had investigated what had 
happened with the delivery company. The latter said theyd delivered the tablet on the date 
agreed and left it in Mr Ps chosen safe place in the morning. If Mr P couldnt locate the 
tablet in the designated safe place, it indicated it had been taken by a third party. Which 
would be a matter for the police. 
Unhappy at DGs final response, Mr P complained to this Service. Hed lost not only the 
tablet device itself, but the data stored on it. Hed arranged for the tablet to be returned to 
him and his wife was at home all day on the date agreed but wasnt asked to sign for 
anything or take delivery. Mr P lived on a new-build estate with ongoing building works in the 
area, so the tablet should have been delivered and signed for. Having lost his tablet, he 
wanted DG to replace it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought DG (G) correctly followed their 
procedures to arrange for the return of Mr Ps tablet (as hed requested). It also appeared 
the delivery company hadnt followed their procedures in leaving the parcel in a safe place, 
only for it to be taken by a third party. Rather than taking the parcel back to their office for it 
to be collected from there. So, Mr P would need to take the issue up with them.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view, asking that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said DG were responsible under their contracted agreement with him (the 
protection policy). In turn, G were responsible to DG as their approved repair agent. And the 
delivery company were in turn responsible to G. DG should be accountable for the actions of 
all their third parties. And G should put in a claim to the delivery company that they failed to 
deliver safely.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DG have acted fairly towards Mr P.
The main issue in Mr Ps complaint is that hes lost his tablet and the data stored on it. He 
says DG should bear ultimate responsibility for the loss, as they are responsible for the 
actions of their third parties (G and the delivery company). DG say they followed the correct 
procedures, and that Mr P should report the loss of the tablet to the police, as the indications 
are that the tablet was taken by a third party.
Looking at the sequence of events and what happened, it appears G agreed with Mr P to 
return his tablet rather than repair it and perform a factory reset, which would have erased 
the data held on the device. I can understand why Mr P didnt want this to happen, given the 
importance of the data to him. So, G were following Mr Ps wishes in agreeing to return the 
tablet without repairing it or performing a factory reset. 
Looking at the exchanges between Mr P and G discussing the return of his tablet, I can also 
see Mr P confirmed to G that if the device went missing, he accepted full responsibility for 
the loss of any data on the tablet. 
Whats also clear is that a delivery date was agreed with Mr P but, for whatever reason, the 
parcel containing his tablet was left in what the delivery company said was a safe place, 
being next to the garage at his property (with a card left in the letterbox). The parcel wasnt 
signed for or (as indicated to Mr P) returned to the delivery company office for collection by 
Mr P at a later date. Theres photographic evidence from the delivery company of the parcel 
being left in the safe place. 
Its not clear why the delivery company left the parcel in a safe place rather than  
assuming they werent able to obtain a signature, if they tried to obtain one  returning the 
parcel to their office. But its clear these were the actions of the delivery company, not DG or 
G. So, I dont think its reasonable to hold DG responsible (as the insurer of the policy) for 
the subsequent loss of the tablet (and the data stored on it).Mr P says G should be made to put in a claim for the loss of the tablet that the delivery 
company failed to deliver safely and securely, and any compensation that might be received 
from such a claim be paid to him (or the tablet replaced). I dont think that unreasonable, but 
it would something for Mr P to pursue directly with G and the delivery agent  its not 
something I can reasonably require of DG.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2024.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman