DRN-3878539
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his travel insurance claim. Hes 
represented by the broker of the policy in his complaint to us.
What happened
Mr F is insured under a group personal accident and business travel insurance policy 
through his employment as a company director. The policy started in 2014 and had been 
renewed annually. Aviva was the insurer.
On 2 March 2020 Mr F booked a trip abroad for him and his partner from 21 December 2020 
to 18 January 2021. On 3 March 2020 Mr F paid a non refundable deposit of about £9,000. 
Unfortunately, his partner became unwell and needed surgery so in July 2020 she was 
advised against travelling. Im sorry to see that Mr Fs partner has since passed away. The 
broker made a cancellation claim for Mr F for his non refundable deposit.
Aviva declined the claim. It said under the policy terms cover for a cancelled trip only applied 
when the insured journey' and the cancellation occurred in the same 'period of insurance', 
which wasnt the situation for Mr Fs trip.
The policy was renewed again from 1 November 2020 and the cancellation claim was 
resubmitted. Aviva again declined the claim on the basis of the policy terms.
Mr F complained to us. The broker on Mr Fs behalf referred to the various definitions in the 
policy and in summary said:
The policy didnt say the trip cancellation date had to be within the period of 
insurance, or that the cancellation date and the date of the insured journey had to 
be in the period of insurance.
The policy definition of period of insurance extended the policy to cover any 
subsequent period for which (Aviva) accept payment for renewal of this policy. The 
policy had renewed on 1 November 2020 for a premium payment to Aviva so the 
period of insurance continued until 31 October 2021 which meant the claim was 
covered under the 2020 policy.
Avivas stance meant each time a trip was booked which started after the next policy 
renewal a separate travel insurance policy would have to be arranged to cover the 
cancellation risk. That defeated the purpose of having an annual travel insurance 
policy and would create a situation where numerous policies were necessary.
The broker contacted other personal accident and business travel insurers which 
have similar policy wordings and they said they would pay such a claim.
Avivas decision wasnt treating customers fairly and it should pay Mr Fs claim.
Our investigator said under the terms of the policy the claim wasnt covered but she thought 
on a fair and reasonable basis Aviva should re-assess the claim subject to the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. 
Aviva disagreed it should reassess the claim and wanted an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary it said:
While the claim was made by an individual it related to a commercial contract of 
insurance between two commercial parties, Aviva and the companies which are the 
policyholders. Mr F is a director and knew or ought to have known the terms of the 
policy. In addition the policy was placed through a professional broker who should 
have advised on the terms of cover.
The risk under the insurance contract was placed on the basis of anticipated insured 
journeys during its policy period and the premium charged reflected that risk. No 
premium was received by Aviva for the particular risk of this trip booked by Mr F for 
leisure purposes.
The reason for our investigators recommendation was that the policy had been 
renewed for a considerable number of years so was likely to be renewed again. 
Aviva said the renewal wasnt relevant as there was no cover for the claim whether or 
not the policy renewed. And if the renewal was relevant the renewal wasnt automatic 
so it wasnt reasonable to assume renewal would happen.
Mr F could have got another insurance policy that would have covered cancellation of 
the trip.
One of our investigators in another complaint on the same issue emphasised this 
was a business group policy, not a personal policy, and thought Aviva was correct to 
decline that claim.
Mr F through his broker said:
The policy terms do cover the claim and if not then Aviva should make that clear in 
the policy wording and policy summary.
Before the insurance started the policyholders wouldnt know the exact number of 
trips which are to take place and are only expected to give Aviva an estimate of trips 
to be booked after the policy inception date and before the following renewal date. 
The estimate the policyholders gave for the policy year beginning November 2019 
was much higher than the number of trips actually undertaken in the 2019 policy 
year. So Aviva received a premium based on many more trips than happened.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to not uphold the complaint. 
I said:
The broker representing Mr F has told us Mr F paid for this trip himself. While this is a 
complaint about a group personal accident and business travel insurance policy the policy 
schedule shows Mr F, as a director, is an insured person (as was his partner). The policy 
schedule also says:
Cover is automatically extended to include leisure trips for directors and their 
accompanied and unaccompanied Spouses/Partners  where the trip does not 
exceed 60 days in duration.So I think Mr F is the correct complainant for this complaint as he had the insured benefit 
and financial loss.
The industry rules and guidelines say that insurers should deal with claims promptly, fairly 
and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive considered all the points Mr F and Aviva have made, Ive not addressed them all as Ive 
focused on the main points to explain my decision. Aviva has referred to another complaint 
which it says is on the same issue where we said it was correct to decline the claim. But 
I make a decision on whats a fair and reasonable outcome on the individual circumstances 
of each complaint.
The policy says on page 27 under the business travel section:
Cover
Cancellation
If You or the Insured Person are forced to cancel an Insured Journey (my 
emphasis) as a direct and necessary result of any cause outside Your or the Insured 
Persons control, We will reimburse You or the Insured Person for all non returnable 
deposits, advance payments and other charges paid or due to be paid by You or the 
Insured Person for travel and accommodation in respect of the Insured Journey up to 
the sum insured shown in the Schedule subject to a maximum payment of £50,000 in 
the aggregate in respect of any one incident.
The policy defines an insured journey on page 21 as:
Any journey not exceeding twelve months in duration (unless otherwise agreed by 
Us), occurring during the Period of Insurance and during the Operative Time, stated 
in the Travel section of The Schedule.
That means an insured journey must occur during the period of insurance and during the 
operative time to have a valid claim.
The policy defines period of insurance on page 9 as:
From the effective date until the expiry date (both shown in The Schedule) or any 
subsequent period for which We accept payment for renewal of this policy.
In this case the period of insurance was from the effective date 1 November 2019 and the 
expiry date was 31 October 2020.
The policy defines operative time on page 9 as:
The period of time during which You or an Insured Person is covered by this policy 
as described in The Schedule.
Aviva said the claim wasnt covered because the trip, when cancelled, wasnt an insured 
journey under the 2019 policy. The trip was due to start on 21 December 2020 which wasnt 
in the period of insurance or operative time for the 2019 policy. And Aviva said the 
cancellation couldnt be covered under the renewed policy from 1 November 2020 as the 
cancellation didnt occur during the 2020 policy period.Under the policy terms I think Aviva could decline the claim. The above policy terms and 
definitions mean the claim wasnt covered under either the 2019 or 2020 policy due to the 
trip cancellation falling within a different policy year to the dates of the planned trip. 
Even if I accept Mr Fs point that the policy definition of period of insurance could include 
the renewed policy period starting from 1 November 2020 the cancellation event wasnt in 
that period so under the policy terms I think Aviva could still decline the claim.
My remit is to decide a fair and reasonable outcome to a complaint in all the circumstances, 
including the policy terms. Thats so whether an individual is insured under a group policy or 
personal policy.
I can understand why Mr F believes Avivas position is unfair but in making an independent 
and impartial decision I must be fair to both parties. Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Aviva to depart from general insurance principles 
or from a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions and accept a claim in these 
circumstances. I have considered the points Mr F makes as to why he think it would be fair 
for Aviva to cover the claim. But I think the policy wording is sufficiently clear that theres only 
cover for cancellation when the dates of the planned trip and the trip cancellation fall within 
the same policy year and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds on which I could 
fairly direct Aviva to pay a claim which doesnt fall within the cover of the policy terms.
In reaching my conclusion Ive taken into account that its not uncommon for travel insurance 
policies to contain similar exclusions or limitations on cover  its fairly common for insurers 
to limit their risk to trips booked or taken during a specified period. And, although Mr F had 
continuous cover, the trip was booked outside the relevant time period. So that hasnt 
changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva said it had nothing to add. Mr F disagreed with my provisional decision. Mr Fs 
representative gave a detailed response on his behalf. The main points in addition to the 
above were:
Mr F didnt just claim under the policy that started 1 November 2019 and ended 
31 October 2020. Hed also claimed under the policy from 1 November 2020 to 
31 October 2021 and that was Avivas claim decline he wanted me to consider.
The policy required the insured journey to be in the period of insurance, which was 
the case for the claim that was made under the policy from 1 November 2020 to 
31 October 2021 (as the planned journey had been from 21 December 2020 to 
18 January 2021).
The policy didnt say cancellation of the trip had to occur in the period of insurance. 
The policy also didnt say the cancellation date and the date of the insured journey 
had to be in the same period of insurance.
Id said that the trip was booked outside the relevant time period but there was  
no stipulation in the policy about when a trip had to be booked.
The policy summary should identify key facts for policyholders. This policy summary 
(which he sent) said the policy gave cancellation cover. If Aviva was excluding 
cancellation cover on certain trips it should make that clear in the policy summary.The policy was first taken out in November 2014 and would be in force until at least 
31 October 2023 and the policyholders had paid premiums to Aviva for more trips 
than theyd completed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Fs full response to my provisional decision but it hasnt changed my 
mind. I dont uphold this complaint. 
Mr F says its Avivas decline of his cancellation claim under the policy period 1 November 
2020 to 31 October 2021 that should be considered. As I said in my provisional findings 
above, Aviva declined that claim on the basis that the cancellation couldnt be covered under 
the policy from 1 November 2020 as the cancellation didnt occur during that policy period, 
which I think was reasonable. 
Mr Fs point is the policy doesnt say that the cancellation of the trip had to occur in the 
period of insurance under which the claim is made, nor that the cancellation date and the 
date of the insured journey had to be in the same period of insurance. But Im still satisfied 
Aviva reasonably declined that claim. General insurance principles mean a risk isnt covered 
by an insurance policy if the risk has already crystallised before a policy started. In this case 
the trip was cancelled before the policy started on 1 November 2020. So the insured event 
Mr F wants covered, the cancellation of the trip, happened before that insurance policy and 
the cancellation cover that policy gave existed. There was no cover for the cancellation claim 
under the policy that started on 1 November 2020.
While the policy doesnt say when the holiday had to be booked, although Mr F had 
continuous cover the trip was cancelled (having been booked) outside the relevant time 
period for cover.
I think Aviva acted reasonably by not highlighting in the policy summary that a trip which had 
already been cancelled wouldnt be covered by an insurance policy that hadnt yet started. 
The policies are annual contracts of insurance and, although the policy can be renewed if 
both parties agree, I dont think a policyholder could buy a policy reasonably thinking that a 
trip which had already been cancelled would be covered by a policy that hadnt started.
I appreciate that a policy with Aviva was in place for Mr F at the time of cancellation of the 
trip but that was the policy whose period of insurance was from 1 November 2019 to 
31 October 2020. I explained in my provisional findings why I think Aviva reasonably said the 
cancellation claim under that policy wasnt covered. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings Im satisfied that  
Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim for the trip cancellation Mr F made 
under the policy starting 1 November 2019 and ending 31 October 2020 and in declining the 
claim for the trip cancellation under the policy starting 1 November 2020 and ending 
31 October 2021. The policyholders paying premiums to Aviva for more trips than they have 
completed doesnt affect the outcome of my decision for the reasons Ive given above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman