DRN-3207238
The complaint
Ms W says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store card in 2001. 
A company called AXA France IARD is now responsible for complaints about these sales. Ill 
therefore refer to AXA throughout this final decision.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Ms W disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Ws complaint.
I certainly dont doubt that Ms Ws recollections of events are honest and genuine. However, 
they are obviously from a considerable time ago and although she has no memory of ever 
agreeing to the PPI, the evidence shows she actually agreed to have it when she took out 
the card account. There was an option on her card application form to either have PPI or not 
take it out. She selected the option to have it and signed the form.
In thinking more widely about what might have happened, I think the charges for the PPI 
would have also appeared on Ms Ws monthly statements as a result of her choosing to 
agree to it at the point of sale. And if shed not wanted it, Ms W could have asked what the 
charges were for. So I think its much more likely she asked for the PPI and has since 
forgotten.
My experience is that AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to 
provide enough clear information for Ms W to decide for herself whether she wanted the 
cover. In my experience, the application was part of a wider based leaflet, part of which 
contained some information about the policy.
Ms W may well have had some limited sickness protection already with her job, implying she 
didnt need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about 
the benefits and means Ms W says she enjoyed. But Im afraid these dont necessarily mean 
the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ive checked that Ms W was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to 
work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have been in 
addition to any other means Ms W had in place at the time.
So I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use in her situation. I think 
this could explain why she probably chose to agree to it during the sale.
For me to uphold Ms Ws complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I just dont have 
that evidence. So Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman