DRN-2005445
The complaint
Mr W says Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited is chasing him for payment after it 
settled a motor insurance claim on a policy issued in his name that he was unaware of. 
What happened
In August 2019 a policy was started with Markerstudy using Mr Ws name and other details. 
The policy was applied for online and arranged by a broker through email correspondence. 
Within a week, the insured car was involved in an accident, which was reported by the 
policys named driver, Mr E. Mr W says he knew nothing about the policy - or the accident - 
until the broker contacted him in October 2019 about a problem with the credit agreement 
used to pay for it. Mr W then found that Markerstudy had settled the other drivers claim and 
that the policy had a £3,000 all sections policy excess that was payable by him.  
Mr W said hed never driven the insured car. He said as hed worked with Mr E and had lived 
with him for a few weeks, Mr E must have taken out the policy in Mr Ws name, using his 
details. Mr W reported the matter to the police, who took no action. Markerstudy said there 
wasnt enough evidence for it to conclude that Mr W was a victim of identity theft. In the 
meantime, it had settled the claim for £2,300 and it required Mr W to pay that sum to it.  
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint. She thought Markerstudy had acted 
reasonably. She noted that Mr W said he was unaware of the policy, although Markerstudy 
had written to him about the claim in August, September and October 2019. As it got no 
response it settled the claim, after arbitration. She said she hadnt seen evidence that Mr W 
had no knowledge of the policy (hed said he thought he was a named driver on it) and a 
copy of his driving licence was supplied to the broker as part of its usual checks. 
Mr W said Mr E had access to his personal details at home and at work and that Mr E had 
taken out the finance on the car in his own name. He said there were errors in the 
documents the broker had processed that should have been noted. And in his view, 
Markerstudy should have avoided the policy. As there was no agreement, the complaint was 
passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my opinion, Markerstudy had no reason to think Mr W wasnt the policy holder and the 
cars main driver. Information thats generally not available to others without consent 
(including Mr Ws driving licence details) had been given to the broker in order for it to set 
the policy up. Markerstudy couldnt have known that Mr W wasnt fully aware of the situation. 
Mr M has since complained about the actions of the broker too, but Ive considered that 
separately from this complaint. 
Mr E reported the accident to Markerstudy in August 2019. He said he wasnt at fault, as the 
other car hit the side of his car. But the other drivers insurer said Mr E had changed lanes 
into the path of the other car. Markerstudy has shown that it wrote to Mr W during the 
summer of 2019, asking him for further details of the accident. It advised him that if he didnt 
respond, it would have no option but to settle the claim as it saw fit. We would only challenge 
an insurers right to settle a claim as it saw fit if it appeared that it had acted unreasonably in 
exercising that right under a policy. I dont think Markerstudy acted unreasonably here. 
Markerstudy gave Mr W the chance to persuade it that the accident was non-fault before 
settling the claim. In the absence of a response from him, the disputed claim went to 
arbitration and Markerstudy accepted the outcome. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Markerstudy to settle the claim as it did in these circumstances. 
In hindsight, I think its fair to assume that Mr E may have intercepted letters for Mr W from 
Markerstudy and from the broker - and he alone had access to any emails from them. But 
that wasnt Markerstudys fault, and it couldnt have known that would happen. 
When Mr W told Markerstudy the policy had been set up fraudulently, a specialist team 
investigated the matter, but it didnt find sufficient evidence to show that Mr W was a victim 
of fraud.  Mr W pointed out the many errors made in the application, and I can see why he 
thinks that points to it having been made without his input. But its not uncommon for there to 
be errors in applications for insurance. Thats sometimes the case even if a policy holder 
completes the form personally, let alone if a friend or partner does it. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Markerstudy to decide that the errors didnt prove fraud had taken place. 
Mr M thinks Markerstudy should have avoided the policy. In order for it to do that, it would 
have had to show that the facts were misrepresented to it and that it wouldnt have offered 
the policy had the true facts been known - or at least that it would only have done so on 
different terms. But Markerstudy didnt know the right details hadnt been provided to it 
before it paid the claim, so the issue of avoiding the policy didnt arise. And had it avoided 
the policy, I dont think Mr W would be any better off. Without a payment from Markerstudy, 
hes likely to have been held personally liable for the other drivers costs anyway. 
I dont think Mr W has been able to show that Markerstudy acted unreasonably. I think it was 
fair for it to rely on the information it had from the broker initially. Later on, it reviewed the 
claim given the facts Mr W set out, to see if it made a difference to the outcome. I think that 
was also reasonable. So whilst I can see that Mr W is in a very difficult position, partly as a 
result of Markerstudys decision, Im not able to uphold his complaint against it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before14 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman