DRN-3150984
The complaint
Miss P feels that Lloyds Bank Plc has acted unfairly by applying interest and charges to her 
account. Shes said the charges contributed to her financial difficulties and has questioned 
whether they were applied in line with the terms and conditions of her account.
What happened
Miss P complained to Lloyds about overdraft interest and charges applied to her account, 
specifically referring to the charges incurred in August and September 2016. Miss P says 
she was experiencing financial difficulties from late 2015 onwards and thinks these charges 
have been applied unfairly. 
Lloyds looked at Miss Ps complaint, it felt the charges and interest applied to her account 
were fair. 
Miss P remained unhappy and so referred her complaint to us. In her submissions to us she 
also noted that she felt Lloyds hadnt shown that it was entitled to apply these charges, and 
questioned whether the amount she currently owes Lloyds is correct.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ps concerns, she explained that she didnt think 
Lloyds had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Miss Ps account. Miss P disagreed and 
so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint, Ill 
explain why.
Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to apply these charges to Miss Ps account. When she 
opened her account Miss P signed a document to say she had seen the terms and 
conditions and a bank charges leaflet. And although a copy of the exact bank charges leaflet 
that Miss P was given is no longer available, Ive not seen anything to make me think that 
charges would not have been applied as set out by the bank in the paperwork that Miss P 
saw at the time. And the specific amounts that Lloyds decides to charge for overdrafts are a 
commercial decision, so not something that I can consider here.
With this in mind, I would only be able to find that Lloyds had acted inappropriately or unfairly 
in applying the charges if I thought that Lloyds was aware  or ought reasonably to have 
been aware  that Miss P was experiencing financial difficulties and I though it hadnt done 
enough to help her with her situation.
But looking at what happened with Miss Ps account Im satisfied that Lloyds did take 
appropriate steps to assist her when her account started to deteriorate. Specifically, I can 
see that Miss Ps account started to show signs of difficulties in around April 2016 when 
payments into the account significantly reduced and it began to spend more time in an 
overdrawn position. When Miss Ps situation didnt improve within a few months, and her 
account started to exceed the arranged overdraft, Lloyds made repeated attempts to try to 
contact Miss P to discuss her account but was unable to make contact. Lloyds then started 
the process of defaulting Miss Ps account so that it could be transferred to the banks 
recoveries department where charges and interest would be stopped, and an affordable 
repayment plan could be agreed. This is the kind of action we would expect a bank to take 
when it becomes clear that there is no reasonable prospect of someone repaying their 
overdraft in a reasonable period of time.
I note that Miss P is concerned that the amount she now owes Lloyds may not be correct, 
and also wants some clarification as to whether the debt is currently with a debt collection 
agency. Lloyds has confirmed to us that the outstanding balance of Miss Ps account - 
£303.01  is not with a debt collection agency, it is currently being managed by the banks 
own recoveries department although Lloyds has said it is not actively pursuing the debt at 
this time. Lloyds has also provided us with a breakdown of all the payments made to the 
debt since the account was defaulted, and we will forward this on to Miss P. If Miss P thinks 
that there are any inaccuracies in the payment record Lloyds has provide then she will need 
to contact Lloyds in the first instance to explain what she thinks is incorrect and to give it the 
opportunity to fully investigate those concerns. If she remains unhappy then Miss P may be 
able to refer those concerns to us as a new complaint.
With everything Ive seen, I dont think that Lloyds has done anything wrong here. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss P, but Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt 
treated her unfairly in applying the charges to her account, and so I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman