DRN-3159672
The complaint
Mr E complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has unfairly declined a claim made 
under a New Home Warranty.
Any reference to Mr E or AmTrust includes any agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In September 2020, Mr E bought a property that is covered by a New Home 
Warranty.
This warranty  which started in 2014  provides cover for ten years and covers 
certain events.
In October 2020 the property was let to tenants. And shortly after they reported 
damp, condensation and mould issues. 
This was investigated by a plumber (Company A) on Mr Es behalf, who discovered 
the underfloor heating and enclosed toilet plumbing was leaking and had caused 
considerable damage.
In the contractors opinion, the damage was as a result of incorrect installation by the 
developer. And to put things right, floor joists in the en-suite would need to be 
replaced and bathroom walls rebuilt.
Mr E said the foundations and the structure of the block could have been 
compromised had action not been taken. 
Mr E made a claim to AmTrust but it declined it. It said the relevant sections of the 
policy say it will provide cover for the following situations:
3.1. The reasonable cost of rectifying or repairing major physical damage 
which is caused by a failure by the developer to comply with the requirements in 
the construction of the new home.
3.2. The reasonable cost of rectifying a present or imminent danger to the 
physical health and safety of the occupants of the new home caused by its 
failure to comply with the Building Regulations that were in force at the time the 
Building Notice was deposited with the Local Authority...
AmTrust said the escaping water from the heating system and toilet didnt meet the 
definition of major physical damage under the policy. Which it said is defined as:
A material change in the physical condition of a load bearing element of the new 
home from its intended physical condition which adversely affects its structural 
stability or resistance to damp and water penetration."
As AmTrust said this definition wasnt met, there wasnt any cover under section 3.1.
And AmTrust said there wasnt evidence to show the water leak had been caused by 
a breach of Building Regulations. So, there was no cover under section 3.2 either. 
And it directed Mr E to contact his buildings insurer who may cover the event.
Mr E arranged for necessary works to be carried out and the property put right. He 
said this cost £13,850. He complained to AmTrust, saying that broken and rotten 
load-bearing joists should be considered major damage under the policy. And that 
the level of damp and mould to the property was a present or imminent danger to his 
tenants.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator said while a loose toilet fitting or leaking underfloor heating wasnt major 
physical damage on its own, the resulting damage in this case amounted to it. And 
the extent of the damage should be considered to meet the required definitions. So, 
the investigator concluded AmTrust should cover the costs for repair and 8% interest.
AmTrust disagreed, saying the proximate cause of the damage was simply not 
insured by the policy. This meant any resulting damage caused by the leaking cistern 
or heating didnt fall within policy cover  as these didnt meet the requirement of 
being a load bearing element. It concluded, the fault didnt lie with the installation or 
construction of the joists which were load bearing, and instead lay with the leaking 
cistern and heating which caused damage to the joists.
Our investigator didnt change their mind, so the complaint was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional thoughts on 10 November 2021 explaining 
why I didnt intend on upholding the complaint. Ive included an extract of this below.
Part 3 of the warranty covers years three to ten after the home has been built. So, this is the 
relevant section to consider in light of when the damage occurred.
Section 3.1.
The policy will cover the reasonable costs of rectifying or repairing major physical damage 
which is caused by the failure of the developer complying with requirements of constructing 
a new home.
So, Ive looked at the evidence surrounding the cause of the damage. The report from 
Company As plumber says:
in my opinion, both these problems were the result of installation error by the 
developer at the time the building was converted from office to housing.
The leaking underfloor heating and toilet leak caused the floor joists to rot and break. 
They were unsafe and dangerous and needed to be replaced. There was also 
extensive mould and damp and walls had to be replaced and re-skimmed. After the 
area was dried with a dehumidifier for several days, the bathroom and adjoining walls 
have been rebuilt from scratch.
From this it seems clear the damage was caused as a result of the installation which is the 
fault of the developer. AmTrust hasnt disputed this.
But AmTrust argues the insured peril is major physical damage. Having read the policy 
carefully, Im in agreement this is what the policy says. 
So, I have to consider if the property has suffered major physical damage in line with this 
definition.There has been discussion over the extent of damage to the joists and its clear to me the 
damage to them is extensive. But even if I agreed the joist damage is severe enough to 
meet the definition of major physical damage, the damage to them was not caused by a 
failure of the developer to comply with requirements in the construction of the new home. 
Instead, the damage was caused by the leaking heating and toilet. And neither of which 
meet the definition of major physical damage as they are not load bearing elements of the 
home. So, Im satisfied AmTrust has declined this claim fairly under this section of the policy.
Section 3.2
The parties have discussed whether or not there is a present or imminent danger to the 
physical health and safety of the occupants of the new home. But this is only one part of the 
requirements that need to be met.
So, even if I were to agree there was a present or imminent danger as described, Ive been 
given nothing to show this was caused by a failure to comply with any specific Building 
Regulations.
As a result, Im also satisfied AmTrust declined the claim fairly under this part of the cover.
So, for these reasons I concluded that AmTrust had fairly declined the claim. And I gave 
both parties an opportunity to respond with any further points.
AmTrust didnt provide anything further. But Mr E did, and Ive summarised his response.
The cost of repairs is covered by the policy. And the faulty installation had caused 
widespread damage to load bearing parts of the property. 
The damage clearly amounted to major physical damage, and was a safety risk.
The underfloor heating sits on top of the joists which are load bearing.
The lack of correct installation of the toilet and heating in itself should be considered 
a breach of Building Regulations.
Mr E detailed the impact of the damage on the tenants and himself and family.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about all of Mr Es points, but these havent changed my mind. I will 
answer his points in turn.
The event causing damage in this case was a leaking toilet and heating unit  neither 
of these are load bearing elements of the property. So, they do not meet the criteria 
of major physical damage as defined in the policy terms.
Its not in dispute that the impact of these leaks damaged load bearing parts of the 
property. But the policy says this damage must be caused by a failure by the 
developer complying with the requirements in the construction of the new home. 
And the cause of damage to the joists wasnt as a result of the developers 
installation or construction of the joists. Instead, they were damaged specifically as a result of the installation of the toilet and heating unit  which arent load bearing 
elements of the home, and not considered major physical damage under the policy. 
So, this claim is not covered.
Whether the heating unit sat upon a load bearing element of the property doesnt 
change my mind. I say this as the heating unit itself is not a load bearing element of 
the property.
Building Regulations are set standards for the design and construction of buildings. 
Mr E hasnt directed me to any specific Regulations that he believes were breached. 
So, Ive reviewed the Regulations alongside the evidence in this case, including 
those around materials and workmanship. And Ive seen nothing to suggest any 
breach has taken place. So, this hasnt changed my mind.
Im very sympathetic to Mr Es situation and can understand why my decision will be 
disappointing to him. But for the reasons Ive outlined, Im not persuaded it would be 
fair or reasonable in this case to direct AmTrust to cover a loss that isnt covered 
under the policy terms.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, including those given within my provisional decision, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman