DRN-4459843
The complaint
Mr H and Ms B complain about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) handled a 
claim they made under their new home warranty.
Mr H has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr H bought a new home covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty.
He got in touch with NHBC in 2017 about cracking in the render. NHBC considered 
the claim under Section 2 of the warranty and carried out its Resolution Service. It 
told the builder to carry out repairs. They did so, but that didnt resolve the problem, 
and Mr H returned to NHBC in 2019.
NHBC agreed further work should be carried out to resolve the cracking and took 
responsibility for doing so. It initially offered a cash settlement for the work, but in 
2022, agreed to instruct contractors to carry it out. NHBC accepted it had caused 
avoidable delays and inconvenience. A dispute arose about the schedule of work. 
NHBC accepted responsibility for the delay that caused. It paid compensation.
The dispute about the schedule of work continued and Mr H complained in early 
2023. NHBC said the schedule included work to repair the cracks identified in 2017 
that were covered by the warranty, and the de-bonded areas identified in 2020. 
However, any minor hairline cracking wasnt included as it didnt affect the 
performance of the render.
Our investigator thought NHBCs schedule of work dealt with all the damage it was 
required to.
The render work went ahead in April 2023, following earlier internal work. Mr H said 
both sets of work were sub-standard and didnt put right all of the damage. He raised 
another complaint. NHBC agreed some of the repair wasnt of an acceptable 
standard. It offered to re-render the first and second floor levels of the rear elevation, 
alongside other work. It also offered £450 compensation. NHBC later also agreed to 
carry out further work to the front elevation and increase compensation to £650.
Our investigator reviewed things again to include both complaints made in 2023. She 
thought NHBCs offer to carry out further repairs to the areas it had identified and pay 
£650 compensation was reasonable.
Mr H asked for his complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman. He said NHBCs offer 
wasnt detailed enough about the work it would carry out and he noted he would have 
to accommodate another round of repairs, and all the inconvenience that involves. 
He didnt think the compensation offered took that into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This matter has been ongoing since 2017. So I can understand why Mr H is 
frustrated and disappointed with NHBC  and why he would like it to resolve the 
problem once and for all.
Whilst I can bear in mind the history of the matter, the scope of this decision is limited 
to considering the two complaints Mr H made in 2023. Im aware hes made previous 
complaints, but theyve been resolved, so I wont be considering them.
Mr Hs first complaint in 2023 was primarily about the scope of work. But there are 
limits to the extent I can consider that. As our investigator has explained, we cant 
consider the judgements NHBC made under its Resolution Service  including what 
damage is covered and work is required to put right the covered damage  as that 
doesnt amount to insurance.
Further damage arose later, outside the period of time relevant to Section 2 and the 
Resolution Service, so NHBC considered it under Section 3. That does amount to 
insurance, so its something we can consider. NHBC has noted that under this 
section, minor cracking, spalling or mortar erosion to brickwork, which does not 
impair the structural stability or weather tightness isnt covered. It agreed to cover a 
de-bonded area of the render, but not any hairline cracking. Given the term noted by 
NHBC, Im satisfied this was reasonable.
Overall, this means I dont think NHBCs schedule of work was unreasonable, to the 
extent Im able to consider it.
Mr Hs second complaint in 2023 was primarily about the standard of work carried 
out. NHBC has accepted the work wasnt done to a reasonable standard and has 
agreed to carry out further work.
Some of this work is fairly well defined. NHBC inspected its work in August 2023. It 
said it would re-render the first and second floor levels of the rear elevation, along 
with other work  remove paint stains, remove garden debris, repair board joints, 
reinstall glazing bar end caps, reinstall the cavity tray, and repair ceiling boards 
internally. It didnt agree to repair some hairline cracking. For the reasons set out 
above, Im satisfied that was reasonable.
Mr H later provided photos of the front elevation. NHBC accepted further work was 
required to this area too, but it hasnt set out what that is yet.
I can understand why Mr H would like the certainty of knowing what work NHBC is 
proposing to the front elevation. But Im satisfied the principle that it will carry out 
work to that area is sufficient to fairly resolve this part of the complaint.
The next step will be for NHBC to determine what an appropriate repair to the front 
elevation is. It should set this out for Mr H in a similar way to how it set out the work it 
identified in August 2023, so Mr H can be clear about exactly what work NHBC will 
carry out.If a dispute arises about the scope of work and/or the standard of work carried out, 
Mr H will be entitled to raise a further complaint.
NHBC should bear in mind it has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. Whilst it 
may not be responsible for the full duration of the matter since 2017, from Mr Hs 
perspective, it has been outstanding for a prolonged period of time. And NHBC has 
accepted responsibility for significant delays over the last few years, paying 
considerable compensation prior to the scope of this complaint. I would expect it to 
take this background into account when it takes the next steps and ensure this claim 
is progressed fairly and promptly.
NHBC should also ensure that the work it carries out provides a lasting and effective 
repair to the insured damage. Its quite clear the first attempt at repair didnt achieve 
this. I understand NHBC will appoint a different contractor this time, which seems 
reasonable. Nonetheless, I would expect NHBC to ensure the work carried out solves 
the problem once and for all, so the matter can be resolved after all these years.
For the period of time within the scope of this complaint, Im satisfied the £650 
compensation offered by NHBC is reasonable. It takes into account that Mr H had to 
accommodate repairs  which didnt resolve the problem, so he will have to 
accommodate them again. It also takes into account months of further 
correspondence where it has taken NHBC a long time to accept its repair isnt to an 
acceptable standard. It could and should have identified this much earlier in the year, 
which would likely have allowed it to carry out the second round of repairs by now. 
Its clear all of this has caused avoidable distress and inconvenience to Mr H, so I 
think it was right for NHBC to recognise that and pay reasonable compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require National House-Building Council to:
Schedule and carry out the work NHBC identified, noted above.
Pay £650 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman