DRN-3321554
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr S is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in or around September 2015. The purchase was 
funded by a five year interest-free loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for 
the acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates 
to the installer misleading Mr S into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which 
they werent.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She did not think that the 
benefits of the panels had been mis-represented to Mr S, as the sales documentation had 
made it clear that the panels would not immediately pay for themselves.
The CMC did not accept that decision. It said that Mr S did not recognise the document on 
which the adjudicator had relied, entitled Predicted System Performance  Total Output.
It argued that this document did not prove that the salesperson had not misrepresented the 
financial returns from the panels. Also, as a matter of law, where a person is unaware that a 
representation is false, the fact that they could have found out it was false by taking 
reasonable care is not a defence. The CMC asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because I think that the contract for the sale of the solar panels would have clearly set out 
the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels, and shown that the benefits did not begin to 
approach the cost.
Neither party has provided a copy of Mr Ss sales contract, and it is too late to obtain one 
now, since the installer has gone into administration. But I think it is reasonable to expect 
that it would have been in the same format, and contained the same information, as the 
contracts I have seen in other cases concerning the same installer.
Immediately above the signature box, the contract says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the relevant figure. I think this figure is 
conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. In Mr Ss case, this figure would have been 
£643.71.
To the left of that it gives the finance amount and the period over which that had to be 
repaid. In Mr Ss case, this was £7,800, payable over 5 years. The box for the consumers 
signature is immediately below those figures, and so I think that the layout has the effect of 
bringing this information to his attention.
However, one fifth of the amount borrowed would clearly come to £1,560 each year. That is 
more than twice the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, I think this is clear.
Put another way, Mr S had to repay £130 a month; clearly twelve such payments would 
exceed £643.
So for these reasons, I am satisfied that even if Mr S did not see the table entitled Predicted 
System Performance  Total Output, the sales contract would have made it clear that the 
panels would not be self-funding during the term of the loan. I am therefore not persuaded 
that the installer misled Mr S about the benefits and cost of the panels.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,940 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Ss FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,746 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman