DRN-2029651
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) 
has failed to correctly implement a charging structure that it offered to them in January 2017.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L hold assets, both jointly and singly with HLAM. Those assets are in the form of 
pension savings held in self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs), assets held in individual 
savings accounts (ISAs), and assets held in a Fund and Share account.
In January 2017 Mr L initiated a conversation with HLAM about the charges he and his wife 
were paying on these assets, and provided HLAM with some comparative charges that 
would be levied by other providers. Following that conversation HLAM offered to reduce the 
charges that were being paid by Mr and Mrs L. The exact nature of that reduction forms the 
substance of this complaint and so I will deal with that agreement in more detail later in this 
decision.
In late 2019 Mr L again asked HLAM to review the charges they were paying. As a result of 
that conversation Mr and Mrs L became aware that their understanding of the changes 
implemented by HLAM in 2017 was different to HLAMs. So they complained that agreement 
hadnt been correctly implemented. HLAM didnt agree with Mr and Mrs Ls complaint so 
they brought it to this Service.
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think 
HLAM had done anything wrong. She thought that it should have been apparent that the 
changes to the charging structure would apply at client, as well as product, level. So she 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint I have taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time. Ive considered the submissions that have been 
made by Mr and Mrs L and HLAM. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I have looked closely at a transcript of the call between Mr L and HLAM in January 2017 
when the new fee arrangement was agreed. Mr L took a different understanding of that 
agreement from the call to what HLAM says was intended. So that would naturally make me 
consider whether the information Mr L was given was sufficiently clear.
HLAM offered to waive its fees once holdings in a product (a SIPP, or an ISA for example) 
reached £1 Million. What it didnt explicitly tell Mr L was that the cap on fees would relate to 
the holdings of each separate client. So for example Mr L would need to hold over £1 Million 
in his own SIPP to benefit from the cap on HLAMs fees. Mr and Mrs L say that they 
understood the agreement would be implemented should their combined SIPP holdings total 
over £1 Million.
The discussions about the fees took place with Mr L. But during those discussions he made 
reference to additional funds that his wife was shortly to invest with HLAM. And in fact HLAM 
made that additional investment a condition of the new fee arrangement. So Mr and Mrs L 
say it wouldnt be unreasonable for them to have concluded that any fee arrangement was 
looking at the total of their holdings in each product rather than at a client level.
But balanced against that I need to consider that HLAM contacted Mrs L separately to 
advise her of the changes that it was making to the fees being charged to her accounts. And 
in all its communications both before and after the fee changes HLAM has ensured that it 
only provides details to each of Mr and Mrs L of their individual holdings. 
And I think that would underline some difficulties in implementing what Mr and Mrs L say 
was agreed. Each of Mr and Mrs L would know their individual account balances. But, if they 
then benefitted from a reduction in their charges, they would be able to determine that the 
balance of the other account had reached a certain level. Whilst it is clear that Mr and Mrs L 
were content to share the details of their accounts with each other at that time, I dont think 
HLAM could reasonably assume that to be the case on an ongoing basis.
On balance I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude that HLAM offered the fee 
structure that Mr and Mrs L have said they thought was agreed. But since they took a 
different understanding from the conversations, an understanding that wasnt entirely 
unreasonable, I would think it fair to conclude that HLAM could have been clearer in its 
explanation of how the new charges would work.
But that in itself doesnt mean that Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. I would also 
need to find that Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently if better information had been 
provided, and that they have lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs L have told us that they consider there would be significant disruption in terms of 
the cost, risk, and inconvenience of moving a relatively complex and large portfolio to 
another provider. And from my experience I think that to be a correct assessment. So I need 
to bear that in mind that when I think about whether Mr and Mrs L would have acted 
differently in 2017.Ive looked at the charges that Mr and Mrs L have paid to HLAM in the time since the new 
charges agreement was put into place. HLAM says the new arrangements started in 
August 2017. The charges are levied on a monthly basis. So since then Mr and Mrs L have 
paid 36 monthly charges totalling almost £9,000. The additional amount they have paid as a 
result of the fee structure not being as theyd understood is less than £100. And the first time 
a reduction would have applied wasnt until August 2018. 
When Mr L was discussing the charges with HLAM in January 2017 it was clear to him that 
other providers offered lower fees. In fact HLAM specifically told Mr L that it didnt attempt to 
be the cheapest provider  it said instead it hoped to offer a more premium service. Im not 
persuaded that a better description of the charges, given that it would likely be some time 
before Mr and Mrs L benefitted from the cap on fees and given the amount that it would save 
them,  would have led Mr and Mrs L to decide to undergo the significant disruption moving 
their assets would involve.
So I dont think it reasonable to conclude that Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently in 
January 2017 if better information had been provided by HLAM.
In their response to our adjudicator Mr and Mrs L said they were less concerned about what 
had happened in the past with regard to their charges than they were about ensuring the 
correct charging structure was put in place in the future. And I can understand why that 
would be important to them since, at the time they made their complaint, their combined 
assets had grown towards a level where they exceeded the threshold.
But the terms and conditions that apply to their arrangement with HLAM allow for any 
charges to be varied providing 30 days notice is given. So even if I had found that HLAM 
should implement the charging structure Mr and Mrs L thought had been agreed in 2017, 
there would be no requirement for HLAM to continue that charging structure into the future. 
HLAM could simply give the required 30 days notice to Mr and Mrs L and return the charges 
to what it thought had been previously agreed.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L. But I think that HLAMs 
interpretation of the fee structure it agreed with Mr and Mrs L in 2017 is reasonable. And Im 
not able to reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently had the 
explanation of that fee structure been clearer. It follows that I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman