DRN-3234777
The complaint
Mrs P complains about a decision by Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) not to uphold a claim 
she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs P, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mrs P says the engine repair to her van wasnt completed properly and that the van was 
returned to her by the supplier in an undriveable condition, with faults. If that could be shown 
to be the case I would think there had been a breach of contract. 
But Im not persuaded that Mrs P has been able to demonstrate the repair was unsuccessful 
or the van was returned to her in a worse condition than supplied, or with faults. I say that 
because:
The collection report makes no mention of the vans driveability or faults. Its unclear 
what the presentation of the van was like before it was given to the supplier and as it 
had already completed about 200,000 miles I think its plausible the condition it was 
returned in was the same as supplied.
The breakdown reports dont explain there were problems with the suppliers work.
The email trail between Mrs P and the suppliers doesnt suggest the supplier hadnt 
completed the work Mrs P paid for.
I dont therefore think Vanquis were unreasonable to reject Mrs Ps section 75 claim and, as 
there was no concrete evidence of a breach of contract, I dont think they would have been 
able to successfully lodge a chargeback with the scheme providers.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman