DRN-4250001
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund transactions that he says were made 
without his authority.
What happened
Mr R had an account with Lloyds  and was in prison overseas. After his release, he says he 
discovered that someone had transferred his savings into his current account, and then 
spent or withdrew all his funds. He reported this to Lloyds.
Lloyds looked at this, but didnt agree to refund these payments. It said it wouldnt refund 
these payments because theyd occurred more than 13 months before Mr R reported them. 
Lloyds also says that Mr R told it that hed given his account details to a friend  which 
breached the terms and conditions of the account.
Our investigator looked into this but didnt think Lloyds should refund the payments. Mr R 
didnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules guidance and 
standards, codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant regulations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. In general, 
a business needs to refund transactions which werent authorised by the consumer. But they 
go on to state that a payment service user is only entitled to a refund of an unauthorised 
transaction if it notifies the payment service provider without undue delay, and in any event, 
no later than 13 months after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or 
incorrectly executed payment authority.
This is reflected in the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Rs account which said that 
we will not refund the payment if you tell us more than 13 months after it was made that the 
payment was not made properly or was unauthorised.
In this case, someone transferred £4,338.01 from Mr Rs savings account to his current 
account in October 2019, and a further £2,973.22 (the remaining balance of the account) in 
November 2019. The current account statements, meanwhile, show that someone then 
withdrew some of the funds at ATMs  and from November began making payments by 
debit card. This continued until all the funds had been spent, in late December 2019. 
I accept that as Mr R was in prison throughout the relevant period he couldnt have made 
these payments himself. But the last of the disputed transactions took place at the end of 
December 2019. The terms and conditions meant that Mr R needed to report this transaction 
to Lloyds before the end of January 2021. Mr R didnt contact Lloyds until September 2022, 
another 18 months later. So I need to consider whether Lloyds can fairly rely on this term in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says he couldnt do anything as he was in prison during the period that these 
transactions took place  and didnt have access to online banking. 
Ive thought about this. The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account said that you must tell 
us if your name or contact details change. If you dont tell us, we will not be responsible if we 
cannot contact you or we send out confidential information to an old address. Mr R didnt tell 
Lloyds he was no longer living at his old address.
Further, Mr R has told us he in fact allowed a friend to have access to his online banking 
because he couldnt access it abroad. And although he was in prison at the time, he has 
nonetheless been able to supply screenshots showing that he lost access to internet banking 
in mid to late November 2019. So it appears that Mr R  or at least the friend hed allowed to 
act on his behalf  would have known at that point that there was a potential issue with the 
account.
Finally, it appears Mr R was aware that a third party may have tried to get access to his 
savings. I note that when Mr R contacted Lloyds, in 2022, to regain access to his account, 
he told Lloydss fraud department that hed blocked his debit card as lost because a friend 
had been taking money out of his savings account, which is why hed blocked it. (This 
appears to have happened a few months before the disputed transactions). Mr R now claims 
that he meant something rather different: that he was concerned that his card might be used 
by someone else in his absence as hed previously used his card online. I dont find what Mr 
R has said about this persuasive  it appears Mr R knows rather more about what has 
happened than hes told us and Lloyds, and that Mr R was aware that third parties had tried 
to access his account before he left the UK. And his account of what happened has changed 
significantly while weve been looking at the complaint  he initially told us hed been living 
abroad with family while he was unemployed, and only explained hed been in prison after 
our investigator said she wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Based on what Mr R has 
said, I find on balance that Mr R knew that someone else had access to his account but 
didnt report this at the time. This also raises the possibility that someone was using Mr Rs 
account with his permission  in which case Mr R can be treated as having authorised the 
payments.
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has acted unfairly here. The terms and 
conditions required Mr R to report unauthorised transactions within 13 months, but he didnt. 
I find its fair for Lloyds to rely on these terms. Im also mindful that because of the time that 
passed, Lloyds no longer has important evidence about what happened to Mr Rs account  
in particular, it is not clear how the third party was able to apply for a new payment card for 
Mr Rs account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman