DRN-3772723
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Mulsanne, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold Mulsanne responsible for their acts or 
omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a city car made by a large car 
manufacturer. Mr M had the car from new in July 2021. He had it on a finance agreement 
from a finance company associated with the car manufacturer.
For the year from July 2021, Mr M had the car insured on a policy branded with the name of 
a supermarket bank acting as an insurance intermediary. 
Unfortunately, in May 2022, the car was involved in a multi-vehicle accident. The insurer said 
it was a total loss. It said that the pre-accident value of the car had been £9,750.00.
Mr M complained to the insurer that it was refusing to replace the car with a brand-new one 
or to pay the cash equivalent of about £11,800.00. He also complained about poor 
communication.
By a final response dated late July 2022, the insurer turned down the complaint, save that it 
apologised for not returning calls, for which it said it was sending £150.00 compensation.
Mr M asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
insurer had settled the claim for the market value of the car, in line with the policy terms. She 
said that there had been service failings, but the offer of £150.00 compensation was enough  
to put things right. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The policy wording is not clear.
He found a brand-new car was available from an official dealership of the car 
manufacturer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen the policy schedule or the certificate of insurance for the year from July 2021. 
Ive seen some policy booklets, but they dont show that the insurer was Mulsanne.
Nevertheless, Ive seen a policy schedule and certificate of insurance dated July 2022 and 
the certificate is signed by a company for and on behalf of Mulsanne. The company that 
signed that certificate is the same as the company that sent the final response on behalf of 
the insurer. So Im satisfied that Mulsanne was the insurer for the year from July 2021.
Mr M has sent us a policy booklet that bears a reference ending in 12/2016. I find that this 
policy booklet didnt apply to the policy he took out in July 2021. I find that the policy booklet 
that applied had a reference ending 08/19. Section 1 of that policy booklet dealt with 
accident damage. That was subject to the following term:
Hire purchase, leasing and other agreements
If your car is currently on a hire purchase or financing agreement (except leasing)
the insurer will settle the claim by paying the legal owner. The insurer will only pay
you any remaining balance if ownership of your car is to be transferred to you, your
spouse or civil partner at the end of the hire purchase or financing agreement.
If your car is on a hire purchase or leasing agreement, the insurer will settle the claim 
by paying the legal owner.
Section 7  included the following:
New car cover
What is covered?
If you have a valid claim under Section 1 or 2 of this policy and If your car was
sourced and supplied as new in the UK and Is less than one year old and you, your
spouse or civil partner are the first and only registered owner, the insurer will
replace it with one of the same makes, model and specification if it has:
 been stolen and not found; or
 suffered damage covered by the policy and the cost of repairing it is more than
55% of the last UK list price (including taxes) of your car at the time of the damage.
The insurer can only do this if a replacement car is available in the UK and anyone
else who has an interest in your car agrees. If you're still paying for your car
under a hire purchase or leasing agreement your insurer may, at their option, pay a
claim for the total loss of your car to the hire purchase or leasing company.
If a car of the same make, model and specification isn't available in the UK, the most
your insurer will pay is the market value of your car at the time of loss or damage.
In Mr Ms case, he did have a valid claim under Section 1 and the car had been supplied 
new in the UK and was less than a year old at the time of the accident in May 2022. 
The car had damage to its front and rear. The insurers engineer said it had structural 
damage. So - whilst I havent seen a repair estimate - I find it more likely than not that the 
estimated  cost of repairing it was more than 55% of the last UK list price (including taxes).
I accept Mr Ms statement that a replacement car was available in the UK.
However, the finance company rather than Mr M was the owner of the damaged car,. I dont 
consider that Mr M met the requirement that he was the first and only registered owner. So 
I dont consider that the policy entitled him to a new replacement car.
Also, the finance company had an interest in the car as its owner. So any replacement was 
subject to agreement by the finance company. In the usual course of events, the finance 
company would want Mr M or his insurer to pay the balance outstanding on the finance 
agreement (about £7,000.00). Theres no evidence that the finance company agreed to the 
insurer providing Mr M with a replacement car.The policy terms gave the insurer the option to pay a claim for the total loss of your car  to 
the finance company. In my view, those words meant a payment of the pre-accident market 
value. 
We expect insurers to assess pre-accident market value by reference to the retail figures in 
the trade guides. That usually produces a range of figures. Unless one of the figures is out of 
line with the others, we will usually find that any valuation figure within the range is a fair 
valuation. 
Ive noted the make, model, age, mileage and pre-accident condition of the car. For a car 
like that, Ive seen retail figures in the trade guides as follows:
CAP £  9,925.00
Glass'  £10,220.00
Cazoo £10,014.00 
So the insurers figure of £9,750.00 was within the range of the trade guide figures. and I 
cant say it treated Mr M unfairly.
Ive noted that Mr M was contacting the insurer on a daily basis. I consider that there were 
times when the insurer shouldve communicated with him better than it did.
The impact on Mr M was that he was worried about what was happening and he had to 
chase for updates.
The insurer tried to put right the shortcomings in its communication by offering Mr M  
£150.00. I find that fair and reasonable and in line with what I wouldve directed if the insurer 
hadnt made that offer. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to do any 
more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman