DRN-3662290
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited have handled his claim following water 
damage at his home. 
Any reference to Ageas includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M had a home insurance policy which was underwritten by Ageas. 
Mr M discovered some damage at his home on 18 November 2020. Mr M made a claim for 
the damage caused by a water leak on 25 November 2020. Ageas arranged for its 
contractor to attend the property to inspect the damage on 30 November 2020. 
Ageas arranged a trace and access to locate the cause of the leak. Following this it was 
confirmed the leak was from the washing machine hose. Mr M chose to progress the claim 
using contractors from Ageas repair network. 
The contractors submitted a scope of works for review. These were not approved until 26 
January 2021 as a result of some back and forth between Ageas and the contractor in 
agreeing the works. 
The contractor discussed material choices with Mr M and requested the excess before 
agreeing a start date. Ageas arranged alternative accommodation for Mr M and his family 
while the work was being carried out. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the way the repairs were dealt with. He was also unhappy with the 
alternative accommodation provided, the fact that the repairs werent completed, damage to 
his furniture, and that Ageas agreed to pay for Mr Ms parking ticket but failed to. 
Mr M complained to Ageas about the way his claim was dealt with. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response from Ageas and so brought the complaint to our 
service. The investigator looked into things for him. He said although he could see some 
delays when the initial repairs were being agreed, he didnt think they were unreasonable or 
as a result of any error made by Ageas. The investigator said he didnt think Ageas was 
responsible for the additional damage and wasnt persuaded Mr M had been unfairly treated. 
Mr M didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided a large amount of documentation and its not my intention to go 
through each document or each point raised. I have looked at the main crux of the complaint 
and detailed my findings below. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, or inconsistent, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
I understand Mr M has strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the 
situation. I have read and considered everything I have received carefully. It is important to 
explain our role is to look at whether Ageas has acted within its terms and conditions and 
treated Mr M fairly. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy which states, your buildings 
are covered for loss or damage caused by water leaking from or freezing in any domestic 
water or drainage installation. 
The policy goes on to say, we will settle your claim by either replacing, repairing or 
rebuilding items, or paying you their cash equivalent. 
So the policy covers the damage caused by the water leaking from the washing machine 
pipe. And the insurer can either replace, repair, or rebuild the damaged areas, or pay their 
cash equivalent. And that is what Ageas has done here. 
I have considered the aspects of the complaint and have listed them separately for ease of 
reference. 
Parking 
I can see Ageas have already agreed to cover the cost of the parking ticket and so I dont 
intend to go over this issue again. 
Delays and quality of repairs  
I can see there was some delay between Mr M reporting the leak to Ageas, and repairs to 
the property being carried out. 
Based on what Ive seen initially it wasnt clear where the leak was coming from. And so on 8 
December 2020 the contractor carried out a trace and access to locate the source of the 
leak. Once the leak was repaired the costs to repair the damage were submitted. The repairs 
werent agreed until 26 January 2021. But Ageas have explained the delay was due to a 
seasonal shutdown of the trades. And so I cant say the delay was due to something within 
Ageas control. 
As a result of the additional damp the contractors were not able to complete the repairs. And 
so a cash settlement was agreed. I think its reasonable for Ageas to offer a cash settlement 
and is within the terms of the policy. 
It is unfortunate the contractors were not able to complete the repairs to Mr Ms home 
however the policy is clear that it only covers damage caused by the water leaking from the 
washing machine pipe. And so I cant say Ageas has done anything wrong here. Mr M hasnt provided sufficient evidence to support his view that the method and quality of the repairs 
was faulty so Im not persuaded that this is the case.
Damage to furniture 
Mr M has alleged the contractors deliberately damaged his property and furniture. I know Mr 
M tried to report this to the police and was told it was a matter for the insurer. But if Mr M is 
alleging criminal damage then the correct course of action is to report the matter to the 
authorities. 
Based on what Ive seen here I cant see any evidence to corroborate what Mr M has alleged 
about the contractors causing damage to his property and furniture. So whilst I have seen 
photographs showing various scratches and marks on furniture these are not sufficient to 
prove the contractors carried out the damage. I know Mr M has said the damage wasnt 
there prior to the work being carried out but in the absence of any independent evidence I 
am unable to say the damage is as a result of something the contractors did deliberately. 
Further damp 
Mr M has said the additional damp at his home can be attributed to the leak he is claiming 
for. Ageas have said, based on the information from the contractor, the damp proofing has 
failed and as such is not linked to the leak. Mr M has not been able to provide any evidence 
to support his version of events apart from the council passing off the building work some 15 
years ago. Mr M has referenced a report he has obtained confirming the damp is attributable 
to the original leak. But I cant see that he has ever provided us with a copy of that report, 
despite the investigator asking for it. 
So having considered the expert opinion provided Im more persuaded by Ageas view of the 
likely cause of the damp. I think it was fair for Ageas to rely on its contractor to help inform its 
decision. And I dont think it was wrong for Ageas to decline to repair the remaining damage. 
It is entitled to do this by the policy terms. So I think it has acted in a reasonable way here. 
Discrimination 
Its important to note that we cannot make a legal finding that the Equality Act 2010 (the 
Act) has been breached or that a businesss actions are tantamount to race discrimination  
the Act makes clear that this is exclusively a matter for the courts. However, as part of our 
investigation we do take relevant law, best practice, and industry guidance into account so 
we can decide whether we think a customer has been treated fairly and reasonably. Given 
what Mr M has said, I think the Act is relevant law here.
Mr M says he feels Ageas has discriminated against him given the problems hes 
experienced including the way he was treated by the project manager. I am sorry he feels 
that way.  Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied Ageas has treated Mr M fairly when dealing 
with his claim. And Ive not seen anything to suggest it has treated him unfairly or done 
anything differently in how the repairs were handled.
I am sorry to hear Mr M lost his job during the time the work was being carried out on his 
home. I understand this would have been particularly difficult. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest this is because of something Ageas did or didnt do. I hope that it helps Mr M to 
know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
Mr M hasnt provided sufficient evidence to support his view that the method and quality of 
repairs was inadequate so Im not persuaded that its the case. I have also not seen anything to say the contractors caused any deliberate, or otherwise, damage to Mr Ms property. 
Therefore on the balance of probabilities I dont think Ageas was responsible for the 
damage. 
Putting things right
Ageas has offered to pay £60 to Mr M for the cost of the parking ticket which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Ageas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £60 for the cost of the parking 
ticket to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited should pay Mr M £60. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman