DRN-4282418
The complaint
Mrs W complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) refuses to refund her losses after she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened 
Mrs W made payments from her TSB account to a crypto exchange which Ill call B. She 
says the money was then sent on from B to a scam investment (which Ill call GG). Under 
the TSB fraud guarantee scheme, Mrs W asked TSB to refund the money she lost to this 
scam. 
TSB replied that its guarantee only covered scam payments that went directly from the TSB 
account to the scam company. But in this case, Mrs W paid the money into her own online 
account held with B. The money then went on to the scammers from there, so the loss 
hadnt originated from her TSB account. TSB therefore felt, these payments werent covered 
by the guarantee. It also said that the transactions on her account were not unusual or 
suspicious, so it didnt otherwise do anything wrong by allowing the payments to debit her 
TSB account. 
Unhappy, Mrs W referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint and felt that TSB should refund the payments under its guarantee. She 
explained that the guarantee simply says that if TSBs customers fall victim to a scam, then 
TSB will refund the money. Consumers moving money to a crypto exchange before being 
moved onto the scammer, was a theme of this type of scam, but it didnt change that Mrs W 
had been a victim of the scam. So, she felt TSB should refund the money in the spirit of the 
guarantee. 
TSB didnt agree. It re-iterated that it had done nothing wrong, thats its guarantee didnt 
cover losses customers experienced from their other accounts. That the guarantee only 
applied to losses made directly from their TSB accounts. It also pointed out that Mrs W had 
significant credits to her TSB account indicating she was making money from these 
investments. It further highlighted that the payments she disputed with our service, were 
different to the ones she initially disputed with TSB. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In my provisional decision of 29 June 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. TSB acknowledged the provisional decision but didnt 
make any further comments. Mrs W made some additional submissions which I will address 
below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Firstly, I can see Mrs W regularly sends money to her account held with B. She also 
regularly trades with her online account with B. There are a significant number of payments 
going in and out of her account with TSB and she seems to be experienced with making 
trades of this nature. So, I dont think these transactions would have stood out as unusual or 
suspicious.
So, in order for me to uphold this complaint, I would have to be satisfied that Mrs W was 
indeed scammed and that the TSB guarantee should have applied. 
However, based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Mrs W has provided sufficient 
evidence that she did send (and lose) money to GG; nor, if she did, which transactions in 
particular from her TSB account were and were not related to the scam. Based on the 
evidence she has submitted, I cannot tell which transactions were legitimate trades and 
which went to the scam company. Mrs Ws testimony has also changed and whilst I believe 
she has made every effort to identify which transactions relate to GG (if any), Im afraid she 
hasnt provided me with convincing evidence that the transactions shes pointed out relate to 
the scam. So, I dont intend to ask TSB to refund her any payments under its guarantee. 
When Mrs W initially contacted TSB to report that shed been a victim of the GG scam, she 
disputed the following transactions: 
23 April 2021 - £10,000
21 April 2021 - £250
19 April 2021 - £250
When she subsequently spoke to our investigator, she disputed the following payments. 
27 April 2021 £1,000  Card payment
27 April 2021 £50       Faster payment
27 April 2021 £9,950  Faster payment 
29 April 2021 £2036    Card payment 
7 May 2021 £5,000     Card payment 
These are a completely different set of payments to the ones initially claimed from TSB with 
no explanation as to why shes now requesting a refund of these payments. They are also 
not for similar amounts that could be explained by an oversight. The first disputed payments 
amount to £10, 500. Whereas the amounts now disputed amount to £18,036. The dates are 
also completely different. 
I would also add that the card payments that Mrs W has disputed did leave her TSB account 
but do not appear on her account with B. Mrs W hasnt been able to explain why they dont 
appear on her account with B.  It may be that the payments have gone to another account 
held with B perhaps in error. But the card payments amount to £8,036  I would think that, if 
these payments hadnt arrived as expected, Mrs W would have queried this at the time. This 
isnt an insignificant amount of money. But, in any event, these amounts couldnt have been 
forwarded on to GG, as they never entered the account, she held with B for which Mrs W 
has provided statements. 
I have also asked Mrs W for proof that these payments were made to the scammers 
account (GG). Mrs W sent in screenshots of five trades made from her account with B to 
what she says is GG. But the dates she made these trades on do not match any of the disputed transactions on her TSB account. The screenshot also shows two different 
destinations indicating they went to two different companies. 
The screenshots show:
Date Destination 
15 April 2021 *E93
19 March 2021 *E93
Both these trades are dated prior to any of the disputed payments leaving her TSB account. 
So, I dont think these cryptocurrency trades relate to the payments shes asked TSB to 
refund. 
The screenshots also show a further three trades that Mrs W says relate to GG. 
Date Destination 
27 April 2021 *qEM
6 April 2021 *qEM
18 March 2021 *qEM
The latter two transfers again pre-date any of the payments Mrs W has disputed with TSB. 
The destination of the two lots of payments are also different indicating that they went to two 
different companies. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im afraid its not clear which payments Mrs W made from 
her TSB account relate to payments she says she eventually sent on to GG. Its also not 
clear what payments she made to GG (if any). As I cannot be reasonably satisfied whether 
Mrs W sent any of the disputed payments to GG, I cannot ask TSB to refund them.  
I would like to stress that I do not think Mrs W is being dishonest, and believe shes tried to 
provide me with her best testimony as to what she believes happened.  But given the vast 
numbers of transactions going through Mrs Ws account, it may be that she has struggled to 
identify which payments relate to the scam, and which were legitimate trades. But without a 
clear explanation and evidence of which payments relate to the scam, I cannot fairly ask 
TSB to refund the payments she has requested. 
In order for me to uphold this complaint where there is such ambiguity, inconsistency and 
uncertainty like this, Id want see the payments leaving her TSB account, going to her 
account held with B and then being sent on to GG (the scammers). Only then would I need 
to consider whether TSB should refund under its guarantee. But Im afraid Mrs W hasnt 
been able to persuade me that its more likely than not, that the payments shes now 
identified, are the payments she sent onto the scam company. I therefore will not be asking 
TSB to refund these amounts. 
I will however look at any further evidence Mrs W is able to provide. So, if she able identify 
which TSB payments relate to the GG scam, and provide documentary evidence of this, I will 
review this complaint again. 
Mrs W disagreed with my provisional decision for the following reasons: 
Mrs W is unhappy that her complaint was originally upheld and then overturned 
despite her making every effort to provide the evidence requested. She feels TSB is 
simply trying to avoid paying a genuine victim of a scam.
The other payments made to B were not used to trade but simply to buy coins  
Mrs W is not an experienced trader but was a victim of a scam. Mrs Ws friend who fell victim to the exact same scam, had his complaint upheld in 
his favour and she doesnt know why hers wasnt. 
Mrs W says her testimony regarding which payments were used to buy coins and 
which were sent to GG changed after she sat down with her friend and realised 
which payments were actually scam payments. She couldnt find any evidence that 
shed confirmed the original payments were the scam payments in writing and 
wanted to see a copy of this. 
Mrs W isnt able to evidence most of the payments made to GG as B no longer 
retains this information. But she reiterates that she was a victim of the scam, and that 
she has been honest. She has instructed solicitors and communicated with the police 
regarding this matter demonstrating the genuine nature of her claim. 
Mrs W says shes now sent in some screen shots showing a payment made to GG 
via a Bitcoin transfer for £1,999.35 which she says is the transfer of £2,036 (less 
costs) and one for £9,950. She also indicated that the other card payments did arrive 
in her account with B but are for slightly different amounts due to costs. 
Mrs W adds that she received no warnings and at no time did TSB challenge why 
payments were being sent to B. She feels that, had TSB given her any security 
warnings, she would have taken them seriously. 
Our investigator subsequently clarified with Mrs W that the original payments Mrs W listed as 
scam payments were reported on a call and not in writing. TSB subsequently tried to recover 
these payments from the beneficiary bank, so were satisfied that she did identify those 
payments as the scam payments. Our investigator also set out that TSB had considered a 
chargeback claim for the card payments Mrs W made to B, but as there was nothing to 
suggest that B hadnt delivered the service paid for, or that it had otherwise done anything 
wrong, it wasnt feasible for TSB to get these payments back via a chargeback request.  
Firstly, Id like to re-assure Mrs W that while I have only set out the most salient points to 
address, I have read all her submissions and reconsidered her complaint carefully. I 
appreciate Mrs W must be very disappointed with my findings given that her complaint was 
originally upheld by our investigator. However, while I sympathise with her position, I am 
simply not able to uphold this complaint based on the evidence available. And I understand it 
must be frustrating that other victims, such as her friend, have had their complaints upheld, 
but each case is decided on the individual merits of that complaint and Ive explained why I 
havent been able to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs W has explained that she identified the second set of payments as the payments made 
to GG after sitting down with her friend. She stresses shes sure that these are the scam 
payments and shes been honest in her claims. However, while it may be understandable if 
Mrs W had added a payment or two that had initially been left off, shes identified a 
completely different set of payments, for differing amounts and different dates. I dont think 
its unreasonable to ask how she now knows these are the payments related to the scam. 
Other than her testimony, Ive seen no evidence that these payments were sent to GG rather 
than used to buy coins. 
I understand Mrs W hasnt been able to provide much evidence of the payments made to 
GG as B does not retain this information. I appreciate the difficulties she has experienced. 
But in response to our previous request for evidence of payments made to GG, Mrs W sent 
in the five screenshots I assessed in my provisional decision. She said:
 The payments made to [GG] from [B] are via Bitcoin addresses as this is the only way [GG] 
would accept deposits. Again, I have provided screenshots that are available of my 
payments made to [GG] via [B].
Where there is such inconsistency in a consumers testimony, Im afraid I cannot uphold a 
complaint based on that testimony. I therefore re-iterate that without the documentary 
evidence I requested in my provisional decision, there simply isnt sufficient evidence to 
clarify which payments Mrs W sent from her TSB account relate to the scam and which were 
used to buy coins. 
The evidence Mrs W has now claimed are the payments made from her TSB account to GG 
only shows a destination address. I appreciate Mrs W says this is how GG received 
payments and the only evidence she can provide  but Id have to rely solely on her 
testimony that this destination address is the payment to GG. I also note that the transfer of 
£2,036 left her account with TSB on the 29 April 2021, while the screenshot for £1,995.35 
shows the money was received in Mrs Ws account with B on the 27th April 2021. 
I have reviewed all the screenshots Mrs W has now submitted, but I still cannot see a clear 
payment journey from Mrs Ws TSB account, to her account with B and then payments made 
to GG. Im afraid, given the level of uncertainty in this case, the evidence submitted is not 
sufficient to counteract the concerns I raised in my provisional decision.
 
Mrs W has also raised concerns that TSB allowed these payments to leave her TSB account 
and it didnt give her any security warnings or contact her to discuss what these payments 
were for. She feels had TSB done so, she would have taken any security warnings seriously. 
But businesses like TSB are only obligated to monitor consumer accounts for unusual or 
suspicious transactions. Mrs W routinely made payments to B which I understand were for 
purchasing coins rather than investing in other companies. But B was therefore an 
established payee. She also had a lot of money going through her account with transactions 
amounts larger than the ones she says are related to the scam. 
What this means is that these particular transactions did not stand out as unusual or 
suspicious, as they appeared normal based on her usual account conduct. So, like I 
explained in my provisional decision, I wouldnt have expected TSB to have intervened 
before allowing these payments to leave her account. So, I dont think TSB failed in its duty 
of care towards her by not providing her with any security warnings or stopping any 
payments. 
I am again very sorry that I havent been able to help Mrs W get her money back. But as Ive 
explained, Im afraid there isnt enough evidence that Mrs W sent money to GG or which 
payments she sent to B were used to invest with GG and which were used to buy coins. 
Where there is still so much uncertainty, I cannot fairly ask TSB to refund her the money she 
says she lost under its guarantee. I also dont think the payments were otherwise unusual or 
suspicious, so I dont think TSB did anything wrong by not intervening before the payments 
left her account. I therefore do not think its fair to hold TSB liable for the losses Mrs W says 
she suffered. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Asma BegumOmbudsman