DRN-3711657
The complaint
Mr D complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) under his home 
emergency policy. His complaint is that he paid for flushing of his boiler filter each year 
(which hadnt been fitted correctly) but this didnt happen.
This decision only covers to those aspects of Mr Ds complaint about the clean (flush) of the 
boiler filter, which should have been carried out as part of the annual service of his boiler. It 
doesnt relate to the installation of the boiler itself nor the installation of the filter. Neither are 
regulated activities which fall within the remit of this service.
What happened
Mr D had a home emergency policy with British Gas, covering repairs in the event of 
breakdown or damage to his boiler, central heating system, plumbing, drains and mains 
electrical system. The policy also included an annual service of his boiler. Mr D had a new 
boiler fitted by British Gas in 2010 and the following year they fitted a filter to it. The filter 
should have been cleaned as part of the annual service. But it was fitted behind some 
panelling, which meant it wasnt easily accessible. The way the filter was fitted also meant it 
didnt cover part of the heating system (meaning some radiators didnt heat up fully).
The fact that the filter hadnt been cleaned annually didnt come to light until 2021, at which 
point Mr D complained to British Gas. He wanted a refund of the premiums hed paid over 
the years, for a service (cleaning of the filter) he hadnt received. He also thought the filter 
not being cleaned also led to problems with his boiler and heating system, meaning 
inconvenience and having to arrange visits for the problems to be fixed. 
 
British Gas upheld Mr Ds complaint in part. On the issue about the filter, they noted that 
engineers had recommended the fitting of a filter on several occasions over the years, 
although one was already fitted (although not easily accessible). They also noted theyd 
carried out a system flush and fitted a new filter in response to Mr Ds concerns. They also 
noted the new filter covered the full heating system (and would be cleaned each year in the 
future). They maintained the absence of cleaning and the incorrect fitting of the filter hadnt 
affected the likely life of the boiler. However, in recognition of the inconvenience caused and 
delay in resolving his complaint, British Gas offered £100 in compensation.
Mr D then complained to this service. The main points of his complaint were that 
under the policy British Gas were meant to clean the filter each year but hadnt done 
so. Mr D was also unhappy it hadnt been fitted properly, meaning it wasnt connected 
to some radiators. He said hed paid for a service that hadnt been provided and 
wanted British Gas to refund the money theyd taken.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ds complaint. He thought several callouts to problems 
with Mr Ds boiler were potentially the result of the filter not having been cleaned. Had 
the filter been cleaned, he thought it likely these callouts wouldnt have been needed. 
Because of this, he thought Mr D would have suffered inconvenience from these 
callouts that wouldnt have been necessary. Because of this, he thought British Gas 
should pay a higher figure in compensation, concluding they should pay an additional 
£400 on top of the £100 theyd awarded.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They believed theyd met their obligations under the terms and 
conditions of the policy by carrying out a flush of the system to remove any blockages as 
well as treating the system with chemicals and fitting the new filter in a more accessible 
position (so it could be more easily cleaned in the future). Having reviewed the job history of 
work carried out at Mr Ds property, they felt only three of the jobs could potentially have 
been the result of the previous filter not having been cleaned (although it wasnt possible to 
conclude definitively it was the cause).
In my findings, I concluded British Gas acted fairly in respect of the issue of Mr Ds complaint 
he paid for a service (the annual clean of the filter) that wasnt carried out.
On the issue of compensation, I thought the inconvenience from the impact of three 
problems that could have been caused by the filter not being cleaned would have been more 
than just minimal. So, I didnt think the £100 offered by British Gas was sufficient. But I didnt 
think the impact would have been significant and led to disruption lasting many weeks or 
months. Taking these points into account, I thought £250 would be fair and reasonable. 
(That is, an additional £150 on top of the £100 offered by British Gas).
Because I reached a different conclusion on the level of compensation from that of our 
investigator, I issued a provisional conclusion to give both parties the opportunity to consider 
matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr D.
The main issue in Mr Ds complaint is that hes paid for a service (annual clean of the boiler 
filter) that wasnt carried out for many years after it was fitted. And that the lack of cleaning 
has led to problems with his heating system necessitating callouts to fix the problems, 
causing him inconvenience. For their part, British Gas acknowledge the filter wasnt cleaned 
as part of the annual service. They say theyve provided a system flush and fitted a new 
filter, which will be cleaned in the future (as well as addressing the issue of the previous filter 
not covering some parts of the heating system). Theyve acknowledged inconvenience to Mr 
D (and offered £100 compensation). They also say the filter not being cleaned may have 
contributed to three callouts over the period.
On the first issue, that Mr D has paid for a service he hasnt received, from what Ive seen 
its not disputed the filter wasnt cleaned as part of the annual service. But the British Gas 
work record Ive seen (which dates from 2016) does show an annual service being carried 
out over the period (at differing intervals). While I havent seen a breakdown of the annual 
cost of Mr Ds policy, the annual service would have been one element of the cover 
provided. The policy would also cover breakdowns and other work carried out. From 
previous cases, its likely the annual service wouldnt be the major element of the annual 
cost of the policy. And the cleaning of the filter would be likely to be only part of the annual 
service. So, while Mr D has asked for a refund of the premiums paid over the period, I dont 
think that would be appropriate. 
Ive noted British Gas carried out a system flush, which normally is something that attracts a 
separate charge (British Gas say it would normally charge £800 for a system flush). Theyve 
also fitted a new filter (although, as a non-regulated activity, this isnt something that falls 
within the remit of this service). Taking these points together, I think British Gass response on this aspect of the complaint is 
reasonable.
Ive then considered the issue of the impact of the filter not being cleaned as part of the 
annual service, including the inconvenience to Mr D of problems that occurred with his 
heating system which may have been the result of the filter not being cleaned annually. In 
this context, Ive thought about the inconvenience of the problems themselves, as well as the 
inconvenience of having to arrange callouts and the time taken to fix the problems.
Our investigator thought a number of callouts would have been likely related to the filter not 
being cleaned, both from the work records dating back to 2016 as well as callouts that may 
have happened before that date. That would have caused inconvenience to Mr D over a 
prolonged period, which the investigator thought would warrant an additional £400 in 
compensation (on top pf the £100 offered by British Gas). British Gas say that, having 
reviewed the work history, three of the callouts over the period could potentially have been 
the result of the filter not having been cleaned (though it wasnt possible to conclude 
definitively it was the cause). I recognise the difficulty of being definitive in these 
circumstances but having reviewed the work history based on their knowledge and 
experience, I think its a reasonable view.
Ive thought carefully about what would be reasonable compensation in the circumstances of 
this case and in the context of similar cases and this services published approach to 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think the inconvenience from the impact of 
three problems that could have been caused by the filter not being cleaned would have been 
more than just minimal. So, I dont think the £100 offered by British Gas is sufficient. 
Thinking about the callouts that could have resulted from the filter not being cleaned, I dont 
think the impact would have been significant and led to disruption lasting many weeks or 
months. Taking these points into account, I think £250 would be fair and reasonable. (That 
is, an additional £150 on top of the £100 offered by British Gas).
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in 
part. I intend to require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr D £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Mr D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Mr D Responded to say the proposed compensation of £250 was low and not fair. He added 
that British Gas had since visited, and he says would have missed cleaning the filter had he 
not pointed it out. He also said the upstairs bathroom radiator was still cooler than others for 
the most part.
British Gas responded to say that while they believed an additional £150 compensation (in 
addition to the £100 theyd offered) was excessive, they would agree to it in this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments again to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether British Gas have acted fairly towards Mr D.
Ive considered the responses from Mr D and British Gas. On Mr Ds points, both the specific 
issues he mentions arent ones that would fall within the scope of this complaint, as they 
relate to subsequent events. 
I appreciate Mr D feeling the proposed compensation is too low (and British Gas feeling it is 
excessive). But they havent provided substantive reasons to reconsider the proposed level 
of compensation in my provisional decision. So, my final decision remains the same as my 
provisional decision, for the reasons set out in the provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr D £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell them Mr D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman