DRN-3382048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax undervalued their 
property, which meant they were offered a higher interest rate on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a mortgage with Halifax, which is made up of six separate sub-accounts.
In 2019, the interest rate on four of the sub-accounts expired, and Mr and Mrs H asked 
Halifax for a new rate. Halifax said based on its valuation of their property, it could offer them 
a five year fixed rate of 2.18%.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with Halifaxs valuation of their property of around £400,000. They 
said they had carried out extensive improvements and had been advised the value was over 
£650,000  which meant they should be entitled to the rate from the lowest loan to value 
band. The equivalent rate is 2.05%.
Mr and Mrs H complained. Halifax said that it based its valuations on a computerised model, 
looking at sale prices and house price inflation. It said there was no means of appealing a 
valuation and it would not accept Mr and Mrs Hs estimate or allow a formal valuation by a 
surveyor. It wouldnt change the loan to value banding or the rate it offered Mr and Mrs H. 
Our investigator didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly, so Mr and Mrs H asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Its not unreasonable for Halifax to use a house prices index to derive valuations for its 
product switches  it would be disproportionately time consuming and expensive to carry out 
a physical valuation every time a customer asks for a new rate.
However, in this case, Mr and Mrs H pointed out  on reasonable grounds  that the 
valuation was likely to be incorrect. They explained that they had carried out significant 
renovations and improvements to the property which had increased its value.
That sort of home improvement isnt reflected in an index valuation. And therefore I think that 
Mr and Mrs H have a point that the valuation Halifax used to offer them a new rate may well 
have been incorrect.
I dont, however, place much reliance on the estate agents figure Mr and Mrs H have 
quoted. An estate agents estimate is not a formal valuation and is at most an estimate of 
initial asking price were the property to be marketed.
In my view, what should in fairness have happened here is that when Mr and Mrs H pointed 
out that the index valuation was likely to be wrong  with good reasons for saying so  
Halifax should have allowed a physical valuation to find an accurate valuation for the 
property. Its reasonable to use an index valuation where its a reasonable estimate  but 
where there are good grounds for believing it to be wrong, as here, I dont think it was fair for 
Halifax to refuse to consider that.
Had Halifax allowed a physical valuation at the time of the application, it would have been 
reasonable for that to have been at Mr and Mrs Hs expense. And it would have required a 
qualified surveyor  not an estate agent  to carry it out.
To put Mr and Mrs H back in the position they would have been in had this happened would 
require a valuation to be carried out now, at Mr and Mrs Hs expense. But its not 
straightforward to carry out a retrospective valuation. So the valuation would either have to 
be an estimate of what the property was worth more than two years ago  or require an 
estimate to be made of the valuation then by comparing the difference between the survey 
and index valuations now to the index valuation then.
However, that is a relatively complex way of resolving what is a relatively low value issue  
since the difference in interest rate is only 0.13%, applied to four of the six sub-accounts on 
the mortgage, the extra interest charged each month is small. I estimate it to be less than 
£200 per year in total. So Mr and Mrs Hs losses to date are perhaps £400  against which 
should be set the costs of the valuation they would have had to pay. Overall, therefore, their 
financial loss is not very substantial even if it can now be shown that the index valuation was 
wrong.
With that in mind, I think it would be disproportionate to require Mr and Mrs H and Halifax to 
go through the whole process of paying for a valuation, valuing the property, retrospectively 
re-calculating the 2019 valuation and  depending on the outcome  adjusting the mortgage.
My remit allows me to award what I consider to be fair compensation in all the 
circumstances. There are times when it is fairer to take a simple, broad brush approach 
rather than embark on a lengthy process that exactly puts matters back in the position they 
would have been in had things not gone wrong. I intend to apply that approach to this case. I 
do so bearing in mind that:
its not certain the valuation was wrong but if it was the financial loss is relatively 
small each month and overall;
had things gone as they should, Mr and Mrs H would have had to pay for a formal 
valuation. The saving on this should be offset and reduces their losses;
if the index valuation was wrong and they were entitled to a slightly lower rate, a lump 
sum now means Mr and Mrs H will receive some compensation before part of any 
loss  in the form of higher future monthly payments  is incurred and to that extent 
are better off; and
Halifaxs failure to consider their reasonable objection to the index valuation caused 
them some distress and inconvenience.
In all the circumstances, I think fair compensation is £400.The responses to my provisional decision
Halifax accepted my provisional decision. But Mr and Mrs H did not. They said it was very 
likely that a formal valuation would have increased the loan to value band. And they said that 
had that happened, the saving would have been up to £75 per month, meaning that my 
proposed award of £400 was not enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered again what I said in my provisional decision in light of Mr and Mrs Hs 
response to it. In particular, Ive thought about whether my proposed award represents fair 
compensation.
Im afraid I dont agree that the difference in monthly payment would have been up to £75. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the difference in interest rate was between 2.18% and 
2.05%. This is a difference of 0.13%.
This is a repayment mortgage. Regardless of the interest rate, Mr and Mrs H would have to 
repay the capital  and the same amount of capital would be payable each month whatever 
the rate. Changing the interest rate only changes that part of the monthly payment which 
represents the interest charged.
Not all of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was on the disputed rate, since there are several 
separate sub-accounts. Less than £145,000 was on the 2.18% rate when it started in 2019. 
The remainder was on a separate rate which expired (and was replaced) in 2020, and is not 
the subject of this complaint.
As I say, it is only the amount of interest charged  not the amount of capital payment  
which is affected by the interest rate. A difference in the annual interest rate of 0.13% (from 
2.18% down to 2.05%) means a difference in annual interest of around £190:
145000 x 0.0013 = 188.50
Or to calculate it a different way:
145000 x 0.0218 = 3161
145000 x 0.0205 = 2972.50
3161  2972.5 = 188.5
Therefore, as I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the difference in the interest 
rate that its likely Mr and Ms H would have got had a formal valuation been carried out and 
had they got a lower rate as a result is a little under £200 per year.
As I said in my provisional decision, in setting compensation I need to bear in mind that 
Mr and Mrs H have suffered that loss, and that they were upset and concerned by Halifaxs 
refusal to reconsider the valuation  as it should fairly have done. Its fair that Halifax 
compensate them both for that financial loss and for the upset caused. But its also fair to 
take into account that Mr and Mrs H would have had to pay for a formal valuation  and 
Halifaxs refusal means theyve saved that cost.Putting things right
I dont know exactly how much a formal valuation would have cost at the time  probably a 
few hundred pounds. Without knowing that for certain, I cant accurately offset the saving 
they made from their losses.
Equally, calculating their exact losses is a complex calculation. The figures Ive given above 
are a broad brush estimation. Calculating it exactly would involve re-working Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage, as well as adding in interest on additional payments made which left them out of 
pocket  but also noting that some losses have not yet been incurred. A precise award 
would include:
Losses:
oAround £190 per year for almost three years to date, plus simple annual 
interest of 8% on overpayments already made;
oAround £190 per year for two further years not yet incurred.
Gains:
oSaving on the cost of a formal valuation  a few hundred pounds;
oThe benefit of having losses between now and 2024 paid up front, before they 
are incurred;
Compensation for the distress and annoyance of not being allowed to contest the 
valuation.
Thats a complex calculation, including unknown factors, as well as the need to take account 
of the net present value of future losses paid up front. Gains would be offset from losses.
Factoring all of that in, I remain of the view that, for reasons of proportionality and simplicity, 
its fair to make a broad-brush award in this case. I remain of the view that £400 is fair 
compensation. That takes into account that extra costs in interest would be largely  if not 
entirely  outweighed by the valuation cost, and that while I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs H 
feel strongly about this complaint, the impact on their monthly payments is small. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr and Mrs H £400 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman