DRN-2618934
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined a claim he made under his buildings 
insurance policy, for damage caused by an escape of water.
 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here, Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute there has been an escape of water in the property. However, what is 
in question is how long the water had been escaping for and whether the claim has 
been correctly declined by AXA under a condition relating to damage which occurs 
gradually. AXA has argued that the extent of water damage means the leak had been 
ongoing for quite some time before it was reported. 
Mr L has said his tenants had been away and discovered the damage on their return, 
however he couldnt say how long theyd been away for. Nor was AXA able to speak 
to the tenants to confirm this.  
Mr L has provided a report from the plumber who fixed the damage explaining that it 
was caused by a faulty elbow fitting and a broken O-ring seal in a push fitting on the 
cold-water supply to the bath. The plumber said the fitting had failed completely 
causing the leak. Mr L also provided a report from an engineer which clarified where 
the leak had come from and a further letter which explained his thoughts that the leak 
could have happened a few days before it was discovered on 3 June. 
Having reviewed the reports provided by the parties as well as the photographs, Im 
more persuaded by the version of events put forward by AXA. The extent of damage 
is very significant. Mr L hasnt been able to provide any information as to how long 
the property was unoccupied and the cause of the damage could lend itself to an 
ongoing/gradual leak. Had the property been occupied, its possible this would have 
been picked up on and fixed before the damage got to the extent it did.
Overall, Im satisfied in this instance, it is more likely than not AXAs decision to 
decline the claim is reasonable in line with the policy terms and conditions. As such I 
wont be looking to interfere in its decision.
During the course of the claim Mr L had to call AXA for updates and chase the 
progress of the case. This caused him additional trouble and upset for which I think 
AXA should pay Mr L £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc in part. I 
direct it to pay Mr L £150 compensation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman