DRN-3187487
The complaint
Mr S has a personal loan with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW), set up to pay 
for negative equity on a previous car finance agreement. He is complaining that this loan 
should have been cleared when he settled a subsequent car finance agreement which was 
unwound in 2021 and the car was given back. 
What happened
Mr S brought a separate complaint to our service recently about problems with a car he had 
obtained on finance. This case was settled with the finance company in 2021, with Mr S 
accepting their offer which included giving the car back and ending that finance agreement 
with nothing further to pay. The full details of that settlement are not part of this complaint, so 
I wont be commenting on any details of that settlement. 
However, when Mr S had taken out that finance agreement for a new car, this involved 
giving back his existing car and ending the existing finance agreement he had for that car. At 
that time, there was finance still owing on that agreement, so rather than this creating a 
deposit towards his new car on his new agreement, this car still had negative equity; he still 
owed the finance company around £2000 from that agreement. 
This £2000 debt was refinanced onto a separate personal loan in 2020, with Mr S agreeing 
to pay around £50 a month for 4 years to clear this debt. This loan was a separate finance 
agreement to the one taken out for the new car which ended in 2021.
 When Mr S agreed the settlement of the subsequent agreement, it didnt include any 
provision to end this separate personal loan agreement. Mr S subsequently complained, as 
he felt that he only had this personal loan because of the subsequent car he had obtained, 
and having ended that agreement, he didnt feel it was fair that this personal loan agreement 
would continue. He said that he feels he would have already paid this finance off if he hadnt 
taken the agreement for the new car which has been ended, so its not fair he still has this 
loan. 
BMW investigated his complaint and said it was a separate agreement for a previous debt, 
and the settlement for the more recent agreement didnt include anything about this loan, so 
they rejected his complaint. 
An investigator here then looked at this complaint, and also rejected it for the same reasons. 
Mr S feels its not fair and he would have paid this finance off already if he hadnt taken the 
new agreement, so asked for an Ombudsman to review this and make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The settlement reached for the subsequent car, which was settled via our service in 2021 is 
not relevant to this case. This was for an entirely separate finance agreement. However, I 
think its important for me to say that even if I was looking at the two cases and agreements 
together, any decision to end that agreement and return the car would not have included 
anything related to this personal loan.   
This personal loan was to repay a previous debt on a previous car finance agreement when 
it ended. As such, it stands alone from the subsequent finance. Mr S feels that if he hadnt 
taken the new car and finance, hed have already paid this debt off. But this ignores the fact 
that hed only have paid it off because the monthly payments were presumably higher.
Mr S chose to refinance this £2000 onto a personal loan over 48 months, at £50 a month. I 
expect this was to keep his overall outgoings down, because of the cost of a new car finance 
agreement which he was starting. The outcome of that new agreement has no bearing on 
this £2000 loan. This debt was owed to BMW, and the balance remains owing whatever 
happened with the subsequent agreement. 
Mr S has told us feels he only still owes the balance of this personal loan because he was 
sold a faulty car. Whilst I empathise with the problems he had with his subsequent car, he 
owed this £2000 because he didnt pay off all the required amount on his previous car 
finance agreement, and it ended while he still owed £2000. 
The subsequent car problems arent relevant to this, so I cant agree that the personal loan 
is unfair or should have been cleared by BMW. His payments on the subsequent agreement 
were towards that agreement for that car, and he has agreed a settlement to end that 
agreement and given back that car. 
He would have always still owed the balance on this personal loan, whatever the 
circumstances with the new car and agreement. For these reasons above, I wont be asking 
BMW to do any more here. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman