DRN-2063131
The complaint
Miss A complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited pursued for her for a non-
existent debt.
What happened
In October 2016 Miss A entered into a conditional sales agreement to fund the acquisition of 
a car. The monthly payments were £250.68. In October 2019 she decided to voluntarily 
terminated the agreement and paid £723.28 in order to be able to do so. The account was 
cleared, but Clydesdale chased Miss A for what it said was a missing payment. 
Miss A told the bank it was wrong and it agreed It paid her £100 compensation for the error 
and it said it would correct her credit reference file. Some three weeks later the bank again 
sought payment and her credit reference file still had not been updated. Miss A complained 
and the bank said it would amend her file and send written confirmation. It also agreed to 
pay her a further £150 in compensation.
Miss A remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. She appreciated the stress ad inconvenience Miss A 
would have suffered and but she asked her for details of any financial impact the error had 
caused. None was provided.
Our investigator explained that Clydesdale automatically transferred any debt arising out of a 
voluntary termination to the debt collector and it had done so in this case. It had corrected 
the situation and had notified the debt collector that it need take no further action.
Miss A didnt agree and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman. She also 
suggested the compensation be increased to reflect the time it had taken to resolve her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the frustration Miss A has suffered, but I dont consider I can recommend the 
bank do any more than it already has done. I will explain why.
Firstly, I must make it clear that this complaint is against Clydesdale and my role is 
determine if it has made any errors, what needs to be done to put the matter right and what 
redress is required for any distress or inconvenience suffered as a result of the banks 
actions. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity and I cannot address the way the bank 
dealt with Miss As complaint. That said, I have noted it has addressed matters without delay 
when they were brought to its attention. 
The bank made a mistake and when that was brought to its attention it failed to rectify it 
properly. However, it did fix the problem at the second attempt. Regrettably mistakes can 
happen and the key is that they are fixed without delay. While it is regrettable it took the 
bank two attempts to fix the problem, I am satisfied that it did remedy matters without undue 
delay.
It paid Miss A £100 for the first failure and £150 for the second. I consider that to be fair. The 
investigator has provided a link to our website which sets out our views on redress. Miss A 
has sent me a copy of her credit report and I see that the account is accurately reflected. I 
have seen no evidence that Miss As finances have been affected by the error. For example, 
I am not aware she had any loan application declined due to poor credit history.
In short, I think the bank has reacted fairly to its mistake and has paid Miss A fair and 
reasonable compensation.
My final decision
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited should pay £250 if it has not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman