DRN-2596488
The complaint
A, a limited company, is unhappy with the way in which Covea Insurance Plc handled a
claim made on the property owners liability section of its commercial insurance policy, after it
had been notified of a personal injury claim.
This complaint has been brought on behalf A by E, a limited company, who is the company
secretary of A.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision this complaint on 1 February 2021 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint - part of which is copied below:
A is a property management company responsible for holding service charge funds on
behalf of leaseholders in an apartment block.
Its alleged by an individual, Mr M, that in November 2018, whilst using the common areas of
the apartment block, he suffered a personal injury caused by a loose footplate on the stairs
(the incident).
Covea was notified of those allegations and, in May 2019, Covea requested further
information including the accident report form, the last inspection report prior to the alleged
incident, the annual health & safety report and the agreement between A and E. Thats
because as well as being the company secretary of A, E had entered into a contractual
agreement with A to provide certain services on its behalf in relation to the communal parts
of the apartment block. That agreement is dated November 2014 (the Agreement)
Having considered the information it received in reply, Covea denied liability on behalf of A.
It said that as A had instructed E to deal with the management of the property, it had
discharged its duty of care. It suggested redirecting the claim which had been made by Mr M
via the Ministry of Justice personal injury claims portal to E.
A says that Covea didnt thoroughly investigate the incident before denying liability on behalf
A. And, as a result of saying the claim should be redirected against E, E may look to
indirectly pass the costs of defending the claim relating to the incident to A  by increasing
management fees.
Covea says it was right to deny liability on behalf of A; it was acting in As best interests
when doing so as E was responsible for the management of the communal areas at the time
- as per the terms of the Agreement.
Unhappy, A complained to our Service. Our investigator upheld As complaint to the extent
that he said Covea should obtain legal advice to determine whether A or E were ultimately
liable in these circumstances. He also recommended Covea pay A £100 in compensation.
Covea disagreed. It said our Service didnt have the power to consider the complaint as the
complaint was being made the sole benefit of E, rather than A. It also says that even if our
Service did have the power to determine this complaint, it has acted fairly and reasonably by
defending the claim on behalf of its policyholder, A.
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold it. Before I explain why, I acknowledge Coveas
concerns that our Service doesnt have the power to consider this complaint. But, for the
same reasons set out in the investigators opinion, Im intending to find that we do. Thats
because Im currently persuaded this complaint has been brought by an eligible complainant
in accordance with the 2.7 of DISP set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
DISP 2.7.1 says: A complaint may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman
Service if it is brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant.
Based on the information Ive been provided by A, Im currently satisfied it meets the
definition of a micro-enterprise as defined by DISP 2.7.3 (2).
Whilst I can understand why Covea has said E has a conflict of interest in the outcome of
this complaint, as E is also the company appointed by A to be its company secretary, Mr E 
as director of E - has the authority to bring this complaint on As behalf.
Further, Mr G, a director of A, has also given signed authority for E to act of As behalf in any
capacity with regard to any matter in relation to any insurance policy based by A with Covea.
A complaint is defined as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on 
behalf
of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims
management service or a redress determination, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material
distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom
that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or
products or claims management services, which comes under the jurisdiction of
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An expression of dissatisfaction was made to Covea by E, on behalf of A, about the way
Covea handled the claim. And Covea responded to this by way of a final response letter
dated August 2019.
Covea says it defended the allegations made against A and so, A hasnt suffered any
financial loss or material distress or inconvenience. But Im persuaded by what A says: that it
may suffer financial loss as a result of Covea stating the claim should be directed to E when
denying liability and the costs incurred by E having to defend that claim being indirectly
passed on to A in management fees. And that is sufficient to satisfy limb (a) set out above.
However, Im not currently persuaded that Covea has done anything wrong by denying
liability on behalf of A for the incident and when doing so, stating that the claim should be
redirected against E.The property owners liability section of its commercial insurance policy which relates to the
property in which the incident is alleged to have taken place says Covea will indemnify A:
against:
1. legal liability to pay Compensation; and
2. costs and Expenses
in respect of:
(a) accidental Bodily Injury to any person
which arises in connection with the Business and which happens during the Period of
Insurance and within the Territorial Limits.
Looking at the policy definitions, Im satisfied that the incident occurred during the period of
insurance, within the territorial limits and in connection with As business which is described
in the insurance schedule as property owner.
Covea requested further information to investigate the incident, as I would reasonably expect
it to do in the circumstances. And as part of that investigation, it received a copy of the
Agreement. Its a term of the Agreement that E should, with all reasonable, skill and
diligence:
Inspect without use of equipment, at the frequency specified such of the common
parts of the Property as can be inspected safely and without undue difficulty to
ascertain for the purpose of day to day management only its general condition of the
common parts.
The Agreement stipulates that 12 such inspections should be carried out every year.
The Agreement also sets the extent of Es liability. It says:
Unless caused by (Es) negligence in the provision of service, (E) is not liable either
in contract of or in tort for any loss, injury, damage or legal or other expenses
sustained as a result of
- any defect or failure to identify any defect in the Property or plant, machinery,
equipment, or materials used for the Property whether or not such defect be
latent or apparent on examination.
Covea also asked for a copy of the last inspection report carried out by E before the alleged
incident took place. That report showed that the treads of the stairs had been checked and
no trip hazards had been identified. And in reply, Covea asked further questions around the
type of inspection carried out and further information about the checks undertaken on the
carpet, trip hazards and stair treads.
Although I can see that Covea did chase, it doesnt look like Covea waited for a reply to
those queries before denying liability on behalf of A. But based on what Covea had - and
given the terms of the Agreement Ive set out above - I dont think Covea has acted unfairly
or unreasonably by denying liability for the incident on behalf of A. I can see why it says it
was acting in As best interests when doing so; by putting As best case forward as I would
reasonably expect it to do in the circumstances. I understand that resulted in legal action not
being pursued against A on behalf of Mr M.
I know, as a result, E has been legally pursued in respect of the incident. But the commercial
insurance policy wasnt taken out for the benefit of E and E isnt the policyholder. Further, the terms of the property owners liability section of the policy do not extend cover to 
E. E mightve incurred a financial loss as a result of having to respond to and defend Mr Ms
claim, which it may or may not seek pass on to A indirectly by charging increased
management fees. But I dont think that means Covea has acted unreasonably by not
accepting liability for the incident and stating that the claim should be redirected to E. Had it
done so, its likely A wouldve needed to pay an excess. And its likely that it wouldve been
required to declare that a claim had been accepted on the policy when the time came to
renew the policy  which, in my experience, is likely to have resulted in an increased
premium.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. Neither Covea or A replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I dont uphold 
As complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman