DRN-2197484
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Scottish Widows Bank) mis-sold 
them a mortgage in 2008. Mr and Mrs P would like the mortgage to be written off now as 
they say theyre now unable to repay it.
Mr P has managed the complaint throughout.
What happened
In February 2008 Mr P applied to remortgage to Scottish Widows. Mr P had received advice 
from a mortgage broker who Mr P says was also a business partner at the time. Mr Ps 
application was approved, but the mortgage didnt complete. 
In May 2008 Mr P submitted a second application. The application was now in joint names, 
with his wife, Mrs P, added to the application for a mortgage loan.
Mr and Mrs P borrowed around £280,000 on an interest only basis until 2028. Mr P says 
£150,000 of the mortgage was to refinance his existing mortgage with another lender. A 
further £130,000 was to inject capital into Mr Ps business.
In 2013 Mr P became seriously unwell. Hes been unable to work since that time.
Mr and Mrs P have been struggling for years to make the interest payments on this 
mortgage. Mr P has previously complained about the advice given by the mortgage broker 
and that has been looked at by this service under a different complaint reference.
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs P complained to Scottish Widows, saying its decision to give them 
the mortgage in 2008 had been reckless. Mr and Mrs P asked that their mortgage balance 
be written off. 
Scottish Widows gave its final response on 14 February 2019. Scottish Widows didnt uphold 
the complaint, saying it had followed its processes at the time. However, it offered to help Mr 
and Mrs P now in their financial difficulty. Scottish Widows said it would freeze the mortgage 
to 0% interest from November 2018 for the rest of the mortgage term (until 2028).  And it 
wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs P to repay the capital on the mortgage until either they decided 
to sell the property or until the latter of either Mr or Mrs P died or ceased to occupy the 
residence as a main residence.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept Scottish Widows offer and they brought their complaint to our 
service. Our investigator thought that the offer made by Scottish Widows was fair and 
reasonable to settle the matter. Mr and Mrs P strongly disagreed. Mr P replied to say, in 
summary that:
- Hes upset that our investigator hadnt told Scottish Widows to write off the balance of 
the mortgage;
- The mortgage he was sold was clearly unaffordable for the whole term of the loan;
- Hes more recently found out that the lender had doubts about granting the mortgage 
from the start. He says the lender should have asked him and no one else for the 
supporting information it wanted to support its underwriting decision;
- Misinformation was given by the broker to support the mortgage application;
- Scottish Widows failed in its duty of care to him by agreeing to the mortgage;
- He wants to be able to decide if he wishes to move to another property more suitable 
for his health needs at a time of his choosing.
Mr and Mrs P asked that an ombudsman look again at their complaint and reach a final 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial thoughts on this complaint. In it I said:
Ive considered what information and evidence is available to me, and Ive reflected upon 
the arguments made by both parties about their recollections of what happened at the time. 
Ive also thought about the relevant regulation, legislation and industry good practice which 
applied when the mortgage was taken out in July 2008. 
At the time Mr and Mrs P took out this mortgage, Mr P was self-employed and had set up his 
own business. Hes said it was in the developmental stage. At that time Mr P was in good 
health. Mrs P was a homemaker and didnt have a separate income. 
Since Mr Ps become unwell, I understand from Mr Ps testimony that he and Mrs P have 
struggled to pay the mortgage. But prior to his illness, looking at the mortgage statements 
from the time, Mr and Mrs P were managing to meet their interest payments.
It seems that between the time of the two applications, in February and May 2008, there was 
some question about whether the new mortgage of around £300,000 should proceed. 
Scottish Widows underwriters highlighted risks and asked for further information about Mr 
Ps business and his financial forecasts. Ultimately senior lending officers were satisfied with 
the information provided and the overall risks of the transaction. Scottish Widows decided to 
make the mortgage available to Mr and Mrs P.
Scottish Widows didnt provide any mortgage advice to Mr and Mrs P. As Ive said, that 
advice was given by a mortgage broker, who arranged the mortgage. But, regardless of a 
separate party being responsible for the mortgage advice and information given in the 
application, Scottish Widows still had a duty under regulation at the time to lend responsibly. 
And that is at the heart of Mr Ps complaint. He says the mortgage should never have gone 
head in the first place as it was too risky. 
I can see from the notes made during the processing of the mortgage application in 2008 
that Scottish Widows asked for, and received, additional information in support of Mr and 
Mrs Ps application. Information was requested exploring the income generated by Mr Ps 
business. Mr P has said that hes upset that his broker provided this extra information and 
that he wasnt consulted about this. I dont think its unusual at the time for a broker to have 
provided information in support of their clients application. That is part of the mortgage 
brokers role. And I dont think Scottish Widows acted unfairly in relying on what the broker 
told it. 
And Mr and Mrs Ps payment of the mortgage in the early years suggests that there wasnt a 
problem with affording the mortgage while Mr P was in good health. I dont think Scottish 
Widows or Mr and Mrs P could reasonably have foreseen what would happen to Mr Ps 
health in the future at the time the mortgage was given.There does seem to be some discrepancy about whether the first application made to 
Scottish Widows was only to be made in Mr Ps name. Records from the Land Registry 
indicate that Mrs P had been on the propertys title prior to 2008. Mr P has also said that his 
previous mortgage was in joint names. Im not sure why this first application to Scottish 
Widows, and the first mortgage offer made by Scottish Widows didnt have Mrs Ps name on 
it. I note that by the time the second application was made in May 2008 Mrs Ps name had 
been added as a joint applicant.
Scottish Widows underwriters carefully considered the risks to it of adding Mrs P to the 
mortgage application. Mrs P wasnt working at the time and doesnt appear to have 
presented any further risks to the application. It seems, from the evidence available to me, 
that Mr P wouldnt have been able to get a mortgage in his sole name. Mrs P had been on 
the previous mortgage with another lender, and she jointly owned the property to be 
mortgaged according to Land Registry records. Its right that Mrs P was a joint applicant to 
the new mortgage loan applied for from Scottish Widows. This mortgage was to be secured 
on her property.
But while I can see that Scottish Widows explored the risks to it of adding Mrs P to the 
proposed mortgage of £300,000, I think it should have been done more to protect Mrs Ps 
interests. Mr P wanted to borrow a further £150,000 to be secured on the jointly owned 
family home for his own business interests. I cant see that Scottish Widows separately met 
or spoke to Mrs P about how the transaction might affect her or that it urged her to take 
independent legal advice. 
Scottish Widows has said Mr and Mrs P did have a solicitor representing them in the 
transaction. And that if the solicitor was concerned about any conflict of interest it should 
have declared this and potentially refused to act for Scottish Widows. I think this duty goes 
beyond relying on a solicitor to declare a problem. I consider that theres a presumption of 
undue influence in such cases- although Scottish Widows could have satisfied itself that Mrs 
P was aware of the risks of the transaction to her, by requiring independent legal advice. 
From what Ive seen in this instance, I think Scottish Widows had a duty to ensure that and 
relying on a solicitor to do this isnt enough.
Having looked over this complaint, Im concerned that Scottish Widows should have done 
more to make sure that Mrs Ps interests were represented in the transaction. For that 
reason, I think it is questionable that Scottish Widows did all it needed to in its duties as a 
responsible lender.
Scottish Widows offer
Scottish Widows didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about this mortgage being 
recklessly lent to them in 2008, but it did make an offer. Scottish Widows said it made the 
offer to try and resolve the complaint early and to recognise the vulnerabilities and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs P when the complaint was made
Scottish Widows has agreed to allow Mr and Mrs P to remain in the property for the rest of 
their lives without applying any further interest to the mortgage from November 2018. It will 
expect no payments towards the mortgage loan until either Mr or Mrs P have no further need 
for the property. Scottish Widows has said it only expects the capital balance to be repaid in 
the event the property is sold.
. Mr Ps said that hes unhappy with this offer and that he wants the entire mortgage balance 
to be written off because it should never have been given in the first place. 
Ive said that I think Scottish Widows didnt do enough to make sure that Mrs P was aware of 
the risks of the transaction to her, and to make sure there was no undue influence. In such 
a situation wed typically look to put consumers back in the position they would have been in 
but for a business making a mistake.  However, its very difficult in complaints where a 
mortgage has been granted years before to truly put Mr and Mrs P back in the position, they 
would have been in but for Scottish Widows deciding to grant them this mortgage many 
years ago. For instance, I cant reinstate the previous mortgage with another lender and Mr 
and Mrs P have already had the benefit of the additional funds which I believe were invested 
into Mr Ps business.
Im sympathetic to the circumstances that Mr P has shared with us. I can completely 
understand why he would like this mortgage to be written off and for there to be no balance 
owed to Scottish Widows anymore. Mr P has also expressed concerns that under Scottish 
Widows offer hed need to remain in his property for the rest of his life, and this might not be 
the best option for him with his ongoing medical condition.
Scottish Widows has given further clarification to its offer at our request. Its said Mr and Mrs 
P can remain in their property paying no interest each month for the rest of their lives, and 
that it will consider an application from Mr and Mrs P to move to another property and port 
this mortgage (or take it with them to the new property) in the future. Scottish Widows has 
said that if Mr and Mrs P move to a cheaper property, it would like part of the mortgage to be 
repaid to proportionately reduce the amount of the mortgage. That might be difficult for Mr 
and Mrs P to achieve. As far as Im aware the property is currently in negative equity, and 
this may make it difficult for them to move. But thats not to say it will continue to be in this 
position as property prices could improve in the future.
In such cases, where there is an indication of irresponsible lending, the offer made available 
by Scottish Widows is what I would typically recommend should happen now to put things 
right. The offer gives Mr and Mrs P the security of being able to stay in their home with no 
further cost to either of them for the rest of their lives or until such time neither of them has 
need for the property. This is a significant offer, and one which I think is reasonable to settle 
the matter.
I appreciate that Mr P would like the entire debt to be written off. However, he and Mrs P did 
have the benefit of the initial sum of around £280,000. This not only repaid their previous 
mortgage of around £150,000 with another lender, but it also raised a further £130,000 
which Mr P decided to inject into his business. Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable 
now to write off this entire sum from the evidence currently presented to me.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P replied to say hes disappointed by my decision. He believes that a combination of the 
broker chasing targets and Scottish Widows desire to please the broker played a role in him 
being given this mortgage. Mr P feels he was sucked in from day one and that he was 
abused by multiple layers of the financial services industry. He considers the Scottish 
Widows risk assessor failed to do his or her job to a basic standard.  
Scottish Widows accepted my provisional decision and made no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the further comments made by Mr P. I appreciate his strength of 
feeling on the matter and how passionately he feels about this complaint. Im also sensitive 
to his and Mrs Ps personal situation and his ongoing struggle with chronic ill health.
While I sympathise with Mr Ps position, having reconsidered all the evidence presented, I 
see no reason to depart from my earlier provisional findings. I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs P but I am satisfied that the redress offered by Scottish 
Widows is sufficient to settle the matter. 
Scottish Widows will now need to make the changes to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage as it set 
out in its offer. Its said that it will retrospectively apply the changes, back to when the offer 
was first made. In this respect, and going forward, I dont need to remind Scottish Widows 
that it should treat Mr and Mrs P positively and sympathetically in its handling of their 
mortgage account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, to the extent that I consider the offer 
already made by Lloyds Bank PLC to be fair and reasonable to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman