DRN-3745278
The complaint
Mr G complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined his 
home insurance claim for storm damage.
What happened
Mr G had a home insurance policy with RSA. 
Mr G said that on 18 February 2022, an exposed section of his rear garden wall was 
overturned during a storm. He said it fell onto an adjacent public footpath, damaging his 
neighbours fence.
Mr G said that on 23 February 2022 RSA emailed him to authorise a spend of up to £1,500 
to make safe repairs. He said he arranged for the debris to be cleared and for temporary 
fencing to be erected along his garden boundary to secure the property. This had cost 
£1,478.40.
Mr G said he then got a quote for the rebuild cost for the wall, to the same standard as the 
original. He said hed shared the quote with RSA on 18 March 2022. It came to £8,592. Mr G 
said he had subsequently decided to rebuild the wall to a higher standard and cost. 
RSAs surveyor inspected the damage on 4 April 2022. Their report said that the dominant 
cause of the walls collapse was a natural breakdown of materials. It said that cracks in the 
wall had caused the wall to weaken over time and the storm had highlighted these issues. 
RSA wrote to Mr G to tell him there was on cover under his policy for his claim.
Mr G said that RSAs surveyor had declined to look at the photos hed taken of the collapsed 
section. He felt these showed the nature of the failure of the wall. 
Mr G didnt agree with RSAs conclusions about what had caused the failure of the wall. He 
asked them to send him a brief report providing technical substantiation for their assertion 
about the cause of the damage. And he asked his own surveyor to produce a report on the 
wall failure. This cost £312.
Mr G said he received the report from RSAs surveyor on 22 April 2022. He said the report 
included photos which mostly focussed on the section of the wall that remained standing. He 
said the text of the report contained errors about the brick colour and age. 
Mr G said his 17 May 2022 surveyors report, which hed shared with RSA, said that his wall 
had failed due to storm. In light of this, he felt his claim was for an insured event. He 
complained to RSA and asked them to cover the following costs:
£1,478.40  for making safe the damage. 
£8,592 to rebuild the wall. 
£312 for his surveyors report.
£1,488 for fence reconstruction. 
RSAs claim notes stated that theyd reviewed Mr Gs surveyors report. They felt the report 
had included a number of comments about friability and wear to the joints. And that it also 
mentioned vertical cracking which had caused some instability.
RSA issued their final response to the complaint on 15 June 2022. They said that for Mr Gs 
claim to be successful, he had to show that the damage had been caused as a direct result 
of one of the insured events listed in the policy booklet. They said their surveyors had found 
no storm-related damage, so they had declined his claim.
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr G brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that there was 
no evidence to confirm the condition of the collapsed section of wall. And given the instability 
that had been found in the remaining sections, he considered it was probable that the wall 
had deteriorated over time. And that the storm had merely highlighted the weakness in the 
wall. So he felt that RSA had reasonably concluded that the storm wasnt the main cause of 
the wall collapsing. And that theyd fairly declined the claim under the terms of the policy.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
He felt the cause of the wall failure was high wind pressure, which was an insured 
event.  He provided a number of points to support this conclusion, as follows:
1. The vertical crack and deteriorated brickwork RSAs surveyor had 
noted in the surviving wall hadnt been present in the section of wall 
that collapsed.  
2. RSAs surveyors had declined to review the photos hed taken of the 
collapsed wall.  He felt theyd entirely replied on the report produced by 
their surveyor. And he didnt consider that theyd provided evidence of 
their assertion that the wall had failed due to wear and tear.
3. He felt his own surveyor, whod considered all available information, 
had concluded that the failure of the wall was principally due to 
substantial wind loading.  
4. He said he himself was an experienced Chartered Civil Engineer and 
Chartered Structural Engineer. So felt that his opinions on such matters 
were of value and should be respected. 
He didnt think that RSA had properly considered his complaint. And didnt consider 
that it was reasonable for RSA to dismiss his claim on the basis of unsubstantiated 
opinion. And to then require him to disprove their proposition by the production of 
evidence. He felt that RSA should be required to demonstrate that the wall failed due 
to the natural breakdown of materials. 
He said there were in fact two defect types in the remaining section of wall.  But that 
neither defect type was present in the section that collapsed. So he didnt agree that 
those defects had caused the collapse.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Mr G. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
While I may not comment on everything raised, Ive thoroughly read and considered all the 
evidence and arguments from both sides. My decision focuses on the relevant key issues, 
and on what I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
When we look into this sort of complaint, our role is to look at all the available evidence. We 
then have to make a decision about what the most likely reason for the damage was. In this 
case, there are two expert reports available. And Mr G himself is a qualified civil and 
structural engineer.
Mr G complains that RSA havent provided any technical substantiation to support their 
surveyors view that the wall collapsed due to a natural breakdown of materials. 
Mr Gs policy, like most insurance policies, offers cover for a defined set of insured events, 
subject to certain exclusions and limitations. In order for a claim to be successful, he has to 
show that the loss or damage hes claiming for was caused by one of these events. Its not 
the case that RSA must provide technical substantiation for their surveyors view of the 
cause of the damage. Instead, its Mr Gs responsibility to supply evidence that the wall 
collapsed due to an insured event. 
Therefore, although I acknowledge that Mr G wasnt persuaded that RSA had provided 
evidence of their assertion that the wall had failed due to wear and tear, I dont agree that 
they needed to do more than they did.
In this case, the insured event Mr G was claiming under was storm. This service considers 
three storm conditions when deciding on complaints like this one. These are as follows:
1. were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. is the damage claimed for typical of storm damage?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to at least one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold the complaint.
Theres no dispute that storm conditions were present around the time of the claim. And a 
collapsed wall is certainly possible when there are severe winds. So I consider the damage 
to have met the second condition. 
I next considered whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. 
RSA agreed that storm winds had been present, but felt that the storm conditions had 
highlighted a pre-existing issue rather than being the cause of the damage. And declined the 
claim on the basis of the following policy exclusion.
Uninsurable risks; any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or 
indirectly caused by or resulting from: wear and tear, fading, corrosion, rusting, damp, decay, frost, fungus, mould, condensation or deterioration, or anything that happens gradually over 
a period of time.
RSA felt that the wall had deteriorated over time, and that in the end, it had collapsed due to 
the natural breakdown of materials. They came to this conclusion after their surveyor 
inspected the damage and produced a report of his findings. I consider that this process is a 
reasonable one to take. 
Mr G also asked a surveyor to inspect the damage and produce a report on the cause of the 
wall failure. Mr Gs surveyor came to a different conclusion about the cause of the collapse. 
He felt: it more probable than not that the failure of this wall was principally due to the very 
substantial and irregular wind loadings imposed on it during the storm of February 2022.
In order to make my decision, Ive considered the evidence from both surveyors reports. As 
the reports conclusions are somewhat different, Ive considered which one is more 
persuasive.
RSAs surveyors report contained a number of on-site photographs of the damage. It 
stated: The remaining section of the wall is in poor condition. There is a large vertical crack 
and several minor cracks along the wall and the wall is deteriorating in general. The front 
section of the wall which is still remaining has different coloured bricks, indicating the wall 
has been rebuilt at some point. Further deterioration of the wall is evident at low level. The 
cracks in the wall have caused it to weaken over time and the storm has highlighted these 
issues. The dominant cause of the walls collapse is a natural breakdown of materials.
It also said: The claim has been declined in full, there are multiple cracks in the wall and 
there is deterioration. The overall condition of the wall that remains is poor.
Mr Gs surveyors report contained no photographs of the damage. It stated at the start: The 
wall itself had collapsed during a recent period of irregularly strong winds and you wish for 
an opinion on its probable condition based on the remaining sections of wall.
I acknowledge that it wasnt at this stage possible to provide a report on the condition of the 
collapsed section of the wall prior to its collapse, but note that both surveyors had to draw 
their conclusions about what had caused the collapse based on the remaining sections of 
the wall.  
Mr Gs surveyors report went on to state: You showed me photographs of the collapsed 
wall. These indicated that the wall had fallen as large panels into the public right of way and 
then broken longitudinally where the upper edge of the wall had been restrained by the fence 
to the neighbouring property. 
It also said: The brickwork and joints were in a reasonable condition although it is fair to 
advise that there was some friability and wear to the mortar joints themselves. I did not, 
however, form the view that the mortar joints had failed. 
There is a vertical fracture extending to the full height of the brick wall to the section on the 
left-hand side of the summer house. This does give rise to some localised instability in this 
location, and I anticipate that the fracture will have developed over the life of the wall as a 
result of regular thermal activity affecting this. There was some very slight instability in this 
location
It is not, or course, possible to say with certainty that similar fractures were present on the 
collapsed section, but careful examination of the photographs provided to me did not 
indicate any straight vertical failure in the collapsed section of the wall. This would be very much anticipated if such a defect had existed in this part.
And later in the report: All indications are that the section of wall that has failed was not in a 
state of disrepair but in a condition commensurate with its construction and age.
Mr Gs surveyor concluded: On balance, and with appropriate consideration to the age of 
the wall, its construction and the condition of the remaining sections, I think it more probable 
than not that the failure of this wall was principally due to the very substantial and irregular 
wind loadings imposed upon it during the storm of February 2022.
From what Ive seen, Mr Gs surveyor noted friability, worn mortar joints and instability in 
other sections of the wall. I consider these to all be signs of the deterioration over time of the 
wall. 
RSAs surveyors report included photographs which I understand were taken at the time of 
their initial inspection. Im satisfied that the photographs reflect what both surveyors stated in 
their reports. That is, the standing sections of the wall had aged over time and there were 
several signs of deterioration at all levels of the wall. 
Mr G told this service that the top four courses of his wall were constructed from a lower 
quality brick. And that there was frost damage and deterioration in the top course. But that 
this brick type wasnt present in the collapsed section. He also said that deterioration in the 
top brick course of a wall doesnt reduce its overturning resistance to wind load. So he felt 
that this issue was irrelevant to the failure of the wall. 
He also said that although there were vertical cracks in the remaining wall, thered been no 
such cracks in the section of the wall that had overturned. Therefore he felt that vertical 
cracks hadnt contributed to the failure of the wall. And that this issue was also irrelevant to 
the failure.
I acknowledge the points Mr G has made here. And note that he is an experienced 
Chartered Civil Engineer and Chartered Structural Engineer, whose opinions are of value 
and are respected. But Ive seen no documentary evidence, including the photos provided, 
which confirm the condition of the collapsed wall before it was damaged. And without such 
documentary evidence, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold this complaint on 
the basis of Mr Gs recollections of the condition of the wall before it was damaged. 
I have seen evidence of deterioration in the remaining sections of the wall. And both 
surveyors noted instability in other sections in their reports. So Im satisfied that the wall had 
shown signs of deterioration before the storm. 
Mr G also felt that his surveyors report had been clear that the wall had collapsed due to 
wind loadings, not as a result of a natural breakdown of materials.  He noted that his 
surveyor had looked at all available information, including the photos hed taken. And that 
RSAs surveyor hadnt done the same. He also felt that RSA had only considered their own 
surveyors report.
From what Ive seen, RSA did consider Mr Gs surveyors report. This is evidenced by their 
claim notes. And I dont consider that the photos that have been shared with me are 
particularly helpful in showing the condition of the wall before it collapsed. Therefore Im not 
persuaded that RSA wouldve come to a different conclusion about the claim if theyd looked 
at Mr Gs photos. 
I acknowledge that Mr Gs surveyor did come to a different probable conclusion about the 
primary reason for the collapse of the wall from RSAs surveyor. But they both agreed that the remaining sections of the wall were showing signs of deterioration. And from what Ive 
seen, I dont consider it unreasonable, in the absence of documentary evidence to the 
contrary, to consider that the fallen section of the wall was in a similar condition to the 
remaining sections. 
From what Ive seen, the wall was already in a poor state of repair at the time of the storm. 
Therefore I cant reasonably uphold a complaint against RSA for declining the claim. This is 
because the storm probably wasnt the main cause of the damage. 
I also considered whether Mr G should have been aware that his wall had deteriorated over 
time. I did this because if he shouldve known, and hadnt carried out any required 
maintenance, then he couldve done more to prevent the damage. Given Mr Gs professional 
training and his testimony about the condition of the wall, Im satisfied that he did know that 
his wall was showing several signs of deterioration. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I consider that RSA fairly considered both surveyors reports. 
And that their conclusion, based on the condition of the remaining sections of the wall, that it 
had failed due to a natural breakdown of materials was reasonable. Therefore Im satisfied 
that they acted reasonably when they declined to cover the claim under the terms of the 
policy. And I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman