DRN-4220563
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money declined his 
application for a current account. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr L, but having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Before I do, I want to highlight that I appreciate there have been other issues Mr L has raised 
regarding the service Virgin Money has provided. These have been dealt with in a separate 
complaint, so I wont be considering them as part of this decision. 
Mr L applied for a current account with Virgin Money in April and May 2022. Unfortunately, 
both applications were declined, and Virgin Money have said this was after a credit search 
was completed. 
As our investigator explained, its not the role of our service to tell a business what criteria to 
use when assessing if an account application should be successful. But it is our role to 
ensure the application has been considered fairly and in line with the criteria the business 
usually uses. Virgin Money has provided evidence to show Mr Ls application was assessed 
in line with its usual criteria. However, as Mr Ls application didnt meet Virgin Moneys 
criteria the application as declined. So, with that in mind, it follows that I am satisfied Virgin 
Money has acted fairly and reasonably in assessing his application. Therefore, I wont be 
asking Virgin Money to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman
