DRN-4217380
The complaint
Mrs M complained about the way ReAssure Limited handled her request to use her four 
pension policies to purchase annuities.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 13 June 2023. In my provisional 
decision, I set out the background to this complaint as follows:
Mrs M had four pension policies with ReAssure, ending 5D7F/GSHP, 5D7F/SHP, 
625B/PPP/EE and 625B/PPP/ER.
When she turned 55 in November 2021, she telephoned ReAssure to arrange taking
benefits from her four pension plans. ReAssure said it would send her forms to complete but
Mrs M didnt receive anything. She chased ReAssure, which said it would need to do manual
calculations and that would take some time. On 30 November 2021, ReAssure asked Mrs M
for her partners date of birth to provide her with a joint annuity quote. Instead, Mrs M asked
if she could have a joint annuity with her daughter.
Mrs M chased ReAssure several times about the time it was taking to provide her with a
quote, and she made a complaint to ReAssure about its delays. ReAssure upheld the
complaint and issued its final response on 15 December 2021, which Mrs M says she didnt
receive. However, Mrs M did receive a cheque for £150, which was the compensation
awarded in ReAssures final response.
ReAssure sent three joint life annuity quotes to Mrs M on 20 December 2021. Mrs M then
asked ReAssure to provide quotes on a single-life basis, but it appears these werent sent to
her until 6 January 2022. Mrs M returned the required forms by post on 12 January 2022.
The forms required Mrs M to give her national insurance number, which Mrs M explained
was not applicable as she resides abroad. She did not tick to say which of the three annuity
quotes she wanted to accept.
ReAssure received Mrs Ms forms on 18 January 2022, and it contacted her a week later to
ask for her national insurance number and whether she wanted joint or single life annuities 
ReAssure called Mrs M on 25 January 2022, who explained why she didnt provide her
national insurance number and chose a single life annuity with a ten year guarantee.
Mrs M called ReAssure again on 2 February 2022. She said she was told her tax-free cash
(TFC) should have been paid by now, but shed only received one of four expected
payments. ReAssure said it would chase things up. ReAssure spoke to Mrs M and her
partner, who was helping her, several times between 8 and 11 February 2022. In these calls,
Mrs M said shed received one payment of TFC for her policy ending EE but the amount
wasnt right and shed been short changed. ReAssure says it told Mrs M it was checking it
was paying her the right amounts for her policies.
Mrs M contacted our Service to ask us to investigate her complaint on 18 February 2022.
Mrs M reiterated she was unhappy ReAssure hadnt responded to a Subject Access
Request (SAR) she made as part of her complaint. One of our Investigators contacted
ReAssure for more information on several occasions, but ReAssure didnt respond.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our Service to review. Our Investigator tried to contact
ReAssure several times but received little response. Based on the information he had
available, our Investigator said Mrs M should have had her annuities set up and received all
her TFC by 19 January 2022, so ReAssure should pay her interest on any delayed
payments. Our Investigator also recommended ReAssure pay Mrs M £100 additional
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. As ReAssure still didnt respond, Mrs Ms
complaint was passed to me for a decision. I contacted ReAssure to try elicit a response.
Since then, ReAssure has clarified how things stand with each of Mrs Ms policies:
Policy ending 5D7F/GSHP
This policy was used to purchase an annuity ending 2486, which had an effective 
start date of 20 January 2022.
Mrs M received £3,593.88 in TFC on 22 January 2022.
The policy is on an escalating basis with a 10-year guarantee. The regular monthly 
payment was £8.05. The first payment made was £16.10 on 31 March 2022 to cover 
the February and March payments due to Mrs M.
Policy ending 5D7F/SHP
This policy was used to purchase an annuity ending 2667, which had an effective 
start date of 20 February 2022.
Mrs M received £1,487.98 in TFC on 8 March 2022.
The policy is on an escalating basis with a 10-year guarantee. The regular monthly 
payment was initially £3.31. The first payment made was £6.62 on 31 March 2022, 
which covered the February and March payments due to Mrs M.
Policy ending 625B/PPP/EE
This policy was used to purchase an annuity ending 3003, which had an effective 
start date of 7 April 2022.
Mrs M received £3,917.58 in TFC on 26 February 2022.
This policy is on a non-escalating basis. The monthly payment due to Mrs M is £8.74. 
The first payment was £17.48 paid on 8 April 2022 to cover the February and March 
payments.
Policy ending 625B/PPP/ER
The annuity set up for this policy was set up incorrectly under a policy ending 8462. It 
has set up a replacement policy ending 9152. Because of this mistake, ReAssure 
said it intended to increase its compensation offer.
Mrs M received £7,587.56 in TFC on 8 March 2022. ReAssure agreed to pay interest 
at 8% simple per annum from 19 January 2022 until 8 March 2022. The policy is on an escalating basis with a 10-year guarantee. The first payment was 
made on 19 March 2023, but has an effective start date of 19 January 2022. 
ReAssure says this replaced a policy that was set up incorrectly, and Mrs M is in the 
position she would have been in if this policy was set correctly up in January 2022. 
The annual payment is £203.04.
ReAssure offered additional compensation for distress and inconvenience to £600 on top of
the £150 paid to Mrs M previously, making its offer £750 in total. And after realising the
policy ending 625B/PPP/ER was set up incorrectly, ReAssure offered to increase
compensation to a total £1,000 (so it would pay Mrs M an additional £850). Our Investigator
asked ReAssure to contact Mrs M about all four polices but, at the time of writing, Mrs M
hadnt received anything from ReAssure.
Turning to Mrs Ms SAR, ReAssure said Mrs M didnt specifically request all personal
information it holds about her. It said Mrs M had asked for transcripts and notes of calls she
had with them, copies of correspondence between her and ReAssure, confirmation of a
member of staffs team. ReAssure said Mrs M would have needed to ask for all personal
information it holds about her for it to be considered a SAR. ReAssure said it tried to contact
Mrs M three times about her SAR but it couldnt reach her.
My provisional decision went on to say why I thought this complaint should be upheld and 
what I thought ReAssure should do to put things right. Mrs M responded to my provisional 
decision, saying:
She has only received payments of €242 on 23 February 2023 and €229 on 
13 April 2023, and ReAssure hasnt explained what these payments were for.
ReAssure are wrong about her SAR  her partner works in finance and Mrs M 
witnessed him requesting the SAR on 8 December 2021, and he was later told 
ReAssure were working on it.
She will accept the £1,000 compensation for the service shes received.
ReAssure responded to query what communication was outstanding for Mrs M but it didnt 
confirm whether it accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. Ill 
reiterate these below.I agree with our Investigator that there were some delays in setting up Mrs Ms annuities.
However, I think they should have been set up by a slightly different date. On 
15 December 2021, ReAssure accepted it had taken too long thus far. It took ReAssure a 
month to issue annuity quotes, but I think it would have been reasonable for it to take two 
weeks from 30 November 2021 (when it had the details needed to provide a joint annuity 
quote) to send Mrs M the quotes she asked for. So, Mrs M should have received the quotes 
on or around 14 December 2021. Mrs M then requested single-life quotes quite quickly, so I 
think it would have been reasonable to allow ReAssure a further two weeks to provide 
revised quotes. So, Mrs M should have had quotes for all four policies by 
28 December 2021. However, I am allowing an additional week for the delays caused by the 
bank holidays over the Christmas period so I think she should have had quotes for all four 
policies by 4 January 2022.
I accept Mrs M didnt provide some information ReAssure needed when the policies were set
up, so this added a small delay. I note ReAssure contacted Mrs M separately about her NI
number and whether she wanted single life annuities, but these questions could have been
asked at the same time. I think it would have been reasonable to allow ReAssure a further
two weeks to set up the annuities. So, I think the annuities should have been set up, and
TFC paid, by 26 January 2022.I note the first policy was actually set up by 22 January 2022
and, as this date is slightly earlier than I think would have been reasonable, I think ReAssure
should have set up all policies by 22 January 2022.
Putting things right
My aim here is to put Mrs M back in the position she would have been in had her annuities
been set up, and TFC paid, by 22 January 2022. From the information ReAssure has
provided, it seems like it has made back dated payments for each policy, but they all have
different effective start dates. So, I cant be sure Mrs M hasnt lost out by some policies
having different start dates. So, for each of Mrs Ms four annuities, ReAssure should
calculate:
Has Mrs M experienced a Past Loss?
A) Total of all the notional payments which Mrs M should have received from her 
four pension policies, net of her marginal rate of tax, from 22 January 2022 until 
the date of my final decision
B) Total of all the actual payments which Mrs M has actually received from her 
four pension policies, net of her marginal rate of tax, from 22 January 2022 until 
the date of my final decision
C) Past Loss = A  B. If the answer is negative, theres a past gain and no redress 
is payable
In working out the net payments, ReAssure should assume that Mrs M was a 20% rate
taxpayer  neither Mrs M nor ReAssure disagreed with this assumption when I made it in my 
provisional decision. 
If Mrs M has experienced a past loss, ReAssure should pay her this amount in cash. Interest
at 8% simple per annum should be added from 2 December 2021 until the date of my final
decision.Will Mrs M experience a future loss?
D) The notional gross pension per year which Mrs M should have been receiving 
from the date of my final decision
E) The actual gross pension per year Mrs M currently will receive from the date of 
my final decision onwards. As Mrs M currently still has a pension fund, the gross 
pension per year they could receive from it is determined by applying the rate from 
step G) below.
F) Future Gross Loss per year = D  E. If the answer is negative, theres a future 
gain and no redress is payable.
G) ReAssure must then put in place the annuity Mrs M would have had if each
policy had an effective start date of 22 January 2022.
If payment of compensation for future loss is not made within 28 days of ReAssure receiving
Mrs Ms acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. Income
tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ReAssure deducts income tax from the interest, it
should tell Mrs M how much has been taken off. ReAssure should give Mrs M a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs M asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
As Ive set out above, ReAssure has said Mrs M has received all the payments she should
have since all four annuities were set up. ReAssure queried what correspondence Mrs M 
was missing or what should be sent to her. From Mrs Ms response to my provisional 
decision, it remains clear she is still unsure of the current position of all her policies. I think 
ReAssure should, therefore, send her copies of all correspondence sent to her since 
November 2021, including letters confirming the policies were set up and any annual 
statements she was or should have been sent. If in doubt, ReAssure should write to Mrs M 
to set out the position of each annuity, including what she should have been paid. And if any 
redress is payable, or any annuity needs to be reworked, as Ive set out above, ReAssure 
should provide Mrs M with clear explanations of what is being done with each annuity.
It's clear from Mrs Ms testimony shes experienced significant trouble and upset as a result
of how the set up of her annuities has been handled. ReAssure has, to its credit, recognised
this and offered a total of £1,000 compensation to apologise for its poor communication. I
think £1,000 fairly recognises the significant time its taken to resolve things and the impact
the delays have had on Mrs M. If ReAssure has already paid Mrs M the £1,000
compensation, I dont think its obliged to pay anything further. But Mrs M has indicated she 
has not received the full £1,000 compensation so, if all or part of the £1,000 compensation is 
outstanding, it should arrange for this to be paid to Mrs M within 14 days of my final decision 
about this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs M remains unhappy ReAssure hasnt responded to her SAR, and shes 
reiterated this in response to my provisional decision  but ReAssure says it has explained 
what she needs to do if she wants to make one. Overall, Im not persuaded I need to make a 
finding on this point. I dont think any failure of ReAssure to respond to a SAR impacts the 
outcome of her complaint about how her annuities were handled and Mrs M remains able to 
make a SAR as Ive explained above. And I think the £1,000 compensation ReAssure has 
offered Mrs M reflects all aspects of its poor communication with her. If Mrs M chooses to 
make a SAR in future, and ReAssure doesnt respond, she may be able to complain about 
this to ReAssure again and, if required, she may be able to refer her complaint to our 
Service to consider. My final decision 
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and require ReAssure Limited to 
do what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman