DRN-1882941
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) in relation to a training course. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr H enrolled onto an online training course through a training provider who 
I shall call S. The first instalment for the course of £574.20 was paid for by his employer. His 
employer later went into administration, so Mr H stopped working for them. But Mr H 
continued to pay for the course personally using his Tesco credit card. However, he later 
had concerns with the way S was keeping records of his payment details because he says 
he called S on two occasions to change his payment card as his previous card had expired, 
but he says S didnt change the card details or keep them. He was also unhappy that S 
didnt provide an online payment gateway for him to make payment towards the course 
securely. 
S said it had listened to all the telephone calls it had with Mr H and it said he didnt provide 
the card details in any of these calls. Ultimately, S decided that it wasnt willing to have Mr S 
enrolled on the course any longer, so it removed him from it. It said it would refund 
everything he paid towards the course and provide him with completion certificates for the 
modules he had completed. But S didnt do so. Mr H contacted S a number of times to find 
out when hed receive the certificates and refund, but he says he still didnt receive them.
Mr H then contacted Tesco to dispute the payments. Tesco raised a chargeback and 
refunded the payments hed made on his credit card. S didnt dispute the chargeback. 
However, Mr H later complained that Tesco hadnt carried out a Section 75 claim to refund 
everything paid towards the course  including the amount his employer paid. He said Tesco 
was required to refund everything paid towards the course and he was also looking for 
compensation for all the distress and inconvenience hed incurred. He also complained 
Tesco continually contacted him by telephone when it had agreed to communicate by email.
Tesco responded to say Mr H hadnt asked to do a Section 75 claim when he first called. But 
it said, even if he had, it would have explained that it was its process to carry out a 
chargeback first. It also acknowledged it had agreed to communicate by email, but it had 
called. However it said it considered telephone a securer way to communicate, which is why 
it preferred to communicate in this way. It acknowledge this might have caused him some 
distress and inconvenience and it offered him £100 in compensation.
Tesco then considered Mr Hs Section 75 claim, but didnt uphold it. It said to be eligible for a 
section 75 claim there needs to be whats known as a debtor, creditor, supplier (DCS) link. It 
said that, as Mr H was looking to reclaim the amount paid by his ex-employer, the link was 
broken. But it also said that, even if there was a link, the purpose of a Section 75 claim was 
to put Mr H back in the position he would have been in. And it said it doesnt allow for a 
customer to claim for a financial loss they havent incurred.
Mr H didnt agree with Tesco. He said hed sought legal advice and Tesco was jointly and 
severally liable for all his losses. He said hed spent a significant amount of time looking to 
resolve this matter and he thinks Tesco should compensate him for this. He also said hed 
had to source a replacement course which was more expensive than the previous course. 
And he said he had to pay for this course personally. So he thinks Tesco should refund the 
additional amount hes had to pay.
Tesco didnt think it was required to refund anything further, so Mr H referred his complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She disagreed with Tesco that the DCS link 
was broken. She said Mr H paid a portion of the contract with his personal credit card. So 
she was satisfied there was a DCS link. However she said the rules of Section 75 are in 
place to compensate Mr H for a loss which he has suffered. She said, as Mr H hadnt 
actually paid the money his employer paid, it wasnt his loss. So she didnt think Tesco was 
required to refund this. She was satisfied Tesco had refunded what it was required to refund. 
She also said S had provided the certificates for the modules hed completed.
The investigator acknowledged Mr H had said he had to pay more for the replacement 
course. But she didnt think Tesco was responsible for that. She also said Section 75 doesnt 
cover distress and inconvenience caused by the supplier. Mr H didnt agree with the 
investigator and, in summary, raised the following points:
He lost a considerable amount of time in his studies and in researching a new provider. 
He said hes also spent a considerable amount of time corresponding with Tesco and 
ultimately this service to try to resolve this matter.
He disputed S ever sent the certificates and he asked for evidence the certificates were 
sent. But he said, as he never received them, he had to start the course all over again, 
which he said caused a serious setback to his studies.
He maintains hes entitled to compensation for Ss actions. He said, despite advertising 
there were numerous ways to make payments, he was limited to making credit card 
payments over the telephone. He also said it was using financial payment systems that 
were insecure, which he said also resulted in it losing his financial information. Finally, he 
thought it was unfair that it cancelled his enrolment on the course just because he raised 
genuine concerns.
He said Tesco continually ignored his requests to not be contacted by telephone, but it 
kept contacting him to explain its findings by telephone. 
He thinks the investigator has ignored legal advice in not upholding this complaint. He 
thinks shes ignored what he considered to be extremely unfair and unreasonable 
behaviours of the course and credit card providers.
He maintains Tesco is jointly and severely liable for all losses caused by S  including 
his distress and inconvenience.
As Mr H didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised a number of points that hed like this service to consider in its investigation. 
Ive considered everything Mr H has given us, but I havent commented on each and every 
point raised. No discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service. In reviewing this case, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key points.Handling of Section 75 claim
I should first state that my role in this complaint is to consider the way Tesco has handled 
the Section 75 claim. Im not considering the actions of S and the service it provided. 
Mr H paid for the course through a combination of an initial payment by his ex-employer and 
then a number of payments on his Tesco credit card. Section 75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Tesco is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier  S. Tesco doesnt think these circumstances apply in this 
case.
One of these conditions is that there must be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship between the parties. In this case the creditor was Tesco and the supplier was S. 
But I am conscious, while Mr H was attending the course, the contract with the supplier was 
in the name of Mr Hs employer. And it was taken out for the benefit of his employment at the 
time. 
There needs to be a direct unbroken link between all three parties for Mr H to be eligible to 
make a Section 75 claim. Tesco doesnt think there is in this case because the payment in 
question was made by Mr Hs employer. Im not persuaded there is a DCS link in this case. 
But I dont think I need to make a finding on this because, even if there was a DCS link, Im 
not persuaded Tesco would need to do anything more to put things right and Ill explain why.
The crux of this case is what Tesco should be responsible for. As I said above, Section 75 
can give Mr H a like claim against Tesco if he looked to claim from S directly for any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by S. So, I need to think about what losses Mr H would 
likely be able to recover in court against S when considering what the like claim might look 
like. Im conscious that, when doing this, courts dont typically tend to make awards for non-
financial losses such as distress and inconvenience for breach of contract apart from in 
limited circumstances (which I dont think would be likely to apply here).
It seems the terms of the contract Mr H had with S entitled it to cancel the contract in certain 
specific circumstances  most notably if Mr H is found to commit a material breach of any of 
the terms of the contract and (if such a breach is remediable) fails to remedy that breach 
within 30 days of that party being notified in writing of the breach.
Im not persuaded these circumstances apply in this case. So I do think S breached the 
terms of its contract with Mr H in removing him from the course. Tesco doesnt dispute this, 
but it says Mr H has already had his losses refunded.
Mr H is unhappy Tesco didnt refund the amount paid by his ex-employer. But I need to think 
about what Mr H has actually lost as a direct result of the breach of contract. As Mr H didnt 
personally make this payment, its not a loss hes suffered. I note Mr H says the replacement 
course was more expensive. But thats not something Tesco is liable for. It was required to 
refund anything Mr H paid towards the contract with S. And it was ultimately Mr Hs choice 
whether to enter into a new separate contract. 
I dont dispute Mr H has suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience as a result S cancelling 
his enrolment. But, as I said above, I dont think Tesco needs to compensate Mr H for any 
non-financial losses hes incurred. So I dont think it needs to pay anything further in respect 
to Mr Hs Section 75 claim.
Service Tesco providedI note Mr H is unhappy Tesco didnt carry out a Section 75 claim when he first called, but 
instead raised a chargeback. I can understand why Mr H is unhappy with this, but, even if I 
think Tesco did something wrong here, Im not persuaded hes lost out as a result of this. 
Mr H would still be in the same situation that hes in now because the outcome of the 
Section 75 claim would be the same as the chargeback request.
I also note that Mr H requested email correspondence, but Tesco telephoned him. I again 
can understand why Mr H was unhappy that Tesco communicated in a different way. But Im 
also not persuaded hes lost out as a result, because Tesco followed the telephone calls up 
in writing.
Tesco has offered Mr H £100 in compensation, which is more than I would have awarded for 
anything it might have done wrong.  So I dont think it needs to offer anything further.
My final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has offered Mr H £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused in the way its handled Mr Hs Section 75 claim. I think this is fair 
in all the circumstances. It should pay this to him directly if it hasnt already done so. I make 
no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman