DRN-3858895
The complaint
Mr M complains about charges when he returned his car at the end of a hire agreement 
provided by Ald Automotive Limited trading as Kia Contract Hire (Kia).
What happened
In June 2019, Mr M acquired a new car using a hire agreement with Kia. When Mr Ms 
agreement came to an end, he handed the car back and it was inspected for damage in 
June 2022. 
Kia then told Mr M he owed £860 for damage to the car. Mr M, unhappy with the charges, 
complained to Kia.
In its final response, Kia said it thought all of the damage fell outside of the fair wear and tear 
guidance. But it did agree to reduce the charges on some areas as a gesture of goodwill. It 
said it was reducing the total charge to £600.
There is some confusion here, as what Kia said it was reducing the charges by doesnt total 
the new figure of £600 it gave. But, in a separate credit note, I can see it also decided to 
remove one of the charges for the NSF door damage  although it didnt say whether this 
was for the inner or outer damage. 
This means the remaining charged damages consisted of:
OSF Alloy Wheel Damage £90
Bonnet Damage £85
NSF Door Damage £155
NSR Door Damage £120
Rear Bumper Damage £65
OSF Door Damage £85
TOTAL £600
Mr M says he agreed with the rear bumper damage and charge, but considered all other 
areas of damage to be fair wear and tear. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so referred his complaint to our service. He said the car was in 
excellent condition and felt the fees applied were excessive.
In summary, our investigator found that Kia hadnt acted fairly. She found that all of the 
charges, apart from the NSF door damage had been fairly applied. And so, our investigator 
found that Kia should waive £155, leaving an outstanding amount of £445 for Mr M to pay.
Kia accepted the investigators findings but Mr M disagreed. He said he accepts a car 
returned after 36 months with around 30,000 miles would pick up general wear and tear 
marks and blemishes, but feels that the charges for each of the identified marks were 
unreasonable.
As Mr M disagreed, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2022 where I explained why I intended to 
not uphold Mr Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to not uphold this complaint and Ill explain why 
below.
Mr M complains about a car supplied under a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit 
contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ms complaint 
about Kia.
Mr M has complained about various damage charges on the returned vehicle. Ill consider 
these in turn. But Ive firstly thought about whether Mr M agreed to be held responsible for 
damage to the car. The terms of the agreement Mr M entered into says:
The Customer is responsible for the use and safekeeping of the Vehicle. Except where a 
liability or cost arises as a result of Kia Contract Hires negligence, fraud or breach of this 
Agreement, the Customer agrees to compensate us and to repay us for any sums incurred 
or losses suffered from as a result of:
c. any damage to the Vehicle .. (but Fair Wear and Tear excepted) and any 
resultant decrease in the Vehicle Market Value
So Im satisfied Mr M agreed to keep the car in good repair and to be held responsible for 
any damage outside of fair wear and tear.
When considering the damages here, Ive referred to The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidance on fair wear and tear. The BVRLA is a trade body that 
oversees the vehicle rental and leasing sector. 
For damage to wheels and wheel trims, The BVRLA says, Scuffs up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable..
Ive reviewed the photos from the inspection of the car. In relation to the alloy wheel, I can 
see a scratch along the edge of the alloy wheel, over 50mm in length. Im satisfied this area 
falls outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to 
charge Mr M for this damage.
For paintwork, vehicle body, bumpers and trim, the BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken. Chips within dents are not acceptable. Dents on 
the roof or on the swage line on any panel are not acceptable.
It goes on to say:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out..
I think there has been some confusion regarding what Kia is charging damage for. Our 
investigator found that Kia incorrectly applied a charge for damage to the NSF door and so 
asked Kia to remove the total being charged by £155, to £445. 
But, Kia has already removed a charge for £155 for damage to the NSF door. It isnt clear whether this applied to the inner or outer damage. But, on balance, I think its 
likely Kia intended to remove the charge for the outer damage to the door. I say this as the 
photos of the door show a single dent which is less than 15mm and the paint surface isnt 
broken. Another photo shows a scratch. Its a little unclear if this is over 25mm or not, but the 
report says its within standard. So, on balance I think this is within the guidelines. 
So, Im satisfied the NSF front door outer damage is fair wear and tear.
In relation to the NSF door inner damage from the photos I can see a large and obvious 
scratch where the primer or bare metal is very clearly showing. Im satisfied this area falls 
outside of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr 
M for this damage.
So, considering this, I dont agree with our investigator that both charges should be removed 
for the NSF door. One area of damage falls outside the guidance and one falls within. Given 
Kia have removed one of the charges, I dont think it needs to do anything further.
In relation to the bonnet damage, I can see from the photos that there is a dent, and the 
paint surface is also broken. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear and tear 
guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr M for this damage.
In relation to the NSR door damage, I can see a scratch to the lower portion of the door 
which is greater than 25mm in length. I can also see in two different photos, on other parts of 
the door that the light is reflected in a distorted pattern which indicates to me that these are 
visible dents. One of the dents is over 15mm. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear 
and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr M for this damage.
Mr M accepts the damage in relation to the rear bumper damage. For completeness, I have 
also reviewed the photos and Im satisfied this also falls outside fair wear and tear and that 
Mr M has been fairly charged for this damage. I say this because I can see from the photo 
there is a scratch to the rear bumper which is greater than 25mm in length.
In relation to the OSF door damage, I can see the light is reflected in a distorted pattern 
which indicates to me that there is a visible dent. The dent is over 15mm. And the dent is 
along the swage line. I can also see in a separate photo of the same door that there is a 
scratch which is greater than 25mm in length. Im satisfied this area falls outside of the wear 
and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr M for this damage.
Mr M believes the fees applied for each item of damage are excessive. But I havent seen 
enough to make me think this is the case.
I set out that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. And I gave both parties the opportunity 
to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider before I issued 
my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Kia responded and said they accept my provisional decision.
Mr M hadnt responded to my provisional decision before the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Kia accepted my provisional decision and Mr M hadnt responded, I see no reason to 
depart from its conclusions.
In summary, I think Kia have charged Mr M fairly for the damage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman