DRN-3609587
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to credit his account with the full amount after
issuing a receipt for cash deposited in a branch.
What happened
Mr M visited a branch of Lloyds to make a cash deposit. He didnt know the exact amount he
was depositing at the time and when the cash was counted by the cashier using the till
called a Teller Cash Recycler (TCR), he was told the amount was £1320. Lloyds issued a
receipt for this amount and Mr M left the branch.
Mr M explained that later that day he was checking his account and noticed only £1020 had
been credited by the bank, not the £1320 recorded on his receipt. Mr M went back to the
branch and asked them about the difference.
Lloyds explained that the TCR hadnt been working properly at the time Mr M deposited his
cash and a manual count of some of the cash had been counted twice by the TCR, resulting
in the amount being inflated by £300.
Mr M believed Lloyds had made an error and he should be credited the full amount they
issued the receipt for. Lloyds checked the balance on the tills and couldnt find an error that
would account for the loss of the £300. They believed that the branch cashier whod served
Mr M had made a mistake when theyd counted the money and the problem with the TCR
had resulted in Mr M being given a receipt that wasnt accurate.
Mr M made a complaint to Lloyds about what had happened, and this was investigated by
their complaints team who declined to change their position. Mr M brought his complaint to
the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Mr M told our service that the
excess cash was linked to a debt he owed a friend, but he also said it could have been cash
related to employees salaries.
Mr Ms complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought the evidence
showed that Lloyds had made a genuine error and they were correct when they only credited
Mr Ms account with £1020.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his
complaint. Mr M argued that the receipt he was issued hadnt been taken into account.
Mr Ms complaint has now been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M went to the bank, he wasnt sure what funds he was depositing, so its difficult to
say exactly what he had when he handed it over to the cashier. It seems apparent to me that
the process adopted in the branch didnt work very well and thats because Mr Ms cash
seems to have been counted twice when the receipt was produced.
Having looked at the evidence sent in by Lloyds, there does appear to have been some
discrepancies after Mr M deposited his funds, but nothing that could explain the £300
difference.
Lloyds explanation that £300 was counted manually before the machine then recounted the
whole amount does appear to be what happened. The till was eventually balanced with the
assistance of the branch manager, so I think at that point the records of what was in the tills
was likely to be accurate.
Mr M has explained that he left the branch and only noticed the difference some time later
that day when he had to return to the branch. Looking at the timing of the incorrect deposit,
the receipt and then the updated deposit, they happen with a few minutes of each other. I
havent seen any evidence that Lloyds attempted to contact Mr M about the difference at the
time, or later that day. I dont think Mr M was given very good service here.
Firstly, his deposit was incorrectly dealt with. The way it was counted and then corrected left
him with the impression that Lloyds had failed him. There also doesnt currently appear to be 
any evidence that Lloyds attempted to contact Mr M about the deposit  even though their
records indicate it was known there was a problem less than two minutes after the receipt
was issued to Mr M.
It only seems to have come to Mr Ms attention when he checked his account later that day.
So, I think that Lloyds customer service was lacking. They dealt poorly with the deposit,
issued an incorrect receipt and didnt appear to have attempted to contact Mr M about it 
waiting for him to notice it and return to the branch.
Whilst I think its likely that the cash counted was subject to an initial error, and the final tally
was probably the correct amount, the way Lloyds dealt with the deposit was lacking. Im
currently intending to instruct Lloyds to pay Mr M £100 for the impact the poor service he
received when depositing his funds and the additional time he had to take to deal with the
problem.
I invited Mr M and Lloyds to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
To pay £100 to Mr M for the poor service he experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC are instructed to pay Mr M £100. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about the amount he 
deposited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman