DRN-3409608
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc misled him about whether a product fee was 
refundable. As a result he missed out on the preferential interest product he wanted. He 
asks for compensation and that HSBC improves its communication. 
What happened
Mr G applied to HSBC for a mortgage in mid-2020 to help fund the purchase of a property. 
Mr G applied for a mortgage on a non-advised basis. He chose a fixed rate product and 
received a mortgage illustration in early August 2020. The mortgage illustration set out the 
fees payable, including the fixed rate booking fee (non-refundable) which had to be paid 
before an offer to lend would be issued.
HSBC instructed a valuation on 4 August 2020. The valuation was lower than expected. 
Mr G says because of this and other issues with the property he held off paying the booking 
fee. He didnt want to lose the fee if the purchase didnt go ahead.
HSBC asked for income information from Mr G during August 2020. HSBC sent a text 
message to Mr G on 4 September 2020 confirming his application was approved, with direct 
debit details and booking fees outstanding. It wrote to Mr G on 9 September 2020 saying the 
booking fee hadnt been paid and the product hed been interested in may not be available.
Mr G called HSBC on 22 September 2020 to check what he needed to do for the offer to be 
issued. He was told he needed to provide a direct debit mandate and pay the booking fee. 
Mr G asked if the rate hed applied for was still the lowest available, but the call handler 
didnt have access to the available product rates. Mr G said hed check online.
Mr G logged onto his account to pay the booking fee on 4 October 2020. He saw that the 
product rate hed wanted was no longer available. Mr G says due to time pressure with the 
sale and purchase chain, he felt he had to choose a new product with HSBC. HSBC issued 
a mortgage offer on 8 October 2020. The product Mr G took out had a higher interest rate 
than the one he first chose. He says this will increase the cost of the mortgage by more than 
£1,000 over the two-year product term. Mr G says:
If HSBC had told him the product fee was refundable up to completion hed have paid 
the booking fee and secured the lower interest rate.
HSBC didnt tell him the product was withdrawn in early September 2020. If hed been 
told at that time he could have looked for a better rate from a different lender.
HSBC says it refunds product fees in certain circumstances. It says it doesnt set this out in 
the mortgage offer as this isnt always the case and its subject to change. 
Our investigator said HSBC had given Mr G unclear and inconsistent information, and didnt 
tell Mr G the product had been withdrawn when he called in late September 2020. He said it 
should pay £300 compensation for the stress this caused. However, he said Mr G knew the 
product might be withdrawn and he hadnt raised his concerns about the valuation or losing 
the product fee with HSBC. The investigator didnt think HSBCs errors had led to Mr G 
missing out on the product he wanted.
HSBC agreed to pay £300. Mr G didnt agree, saying this didnt cover the financial loss from 
HSBCs original error. He said HSBC hadnt provided a recording of the call when he 
discussed why he was delaying payment of the booking fee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Should HSBC have told Mr G the product fee was refundable?
Mr G doesnt dispute that he knew product rates change from time to time and that he 
needed to pay the booking fee to secure the product. Mr G says hed have done this if hed 
been told the booking fee was refundable. The product Mr G had chosen was withdrawn in 
early September 2020. Mr G would have needed to pay the booking fee before this to secure 
the rate.
HSBC provided information about when it refunds booking fees. Although often the case, its 
not right to say that fees are always refundable up to drawdown. 
I think its likely that if Mr G had paid the fee in August 2020 and then decided not to go 
ahead due to issues with the property, HSBC would have refunded the booking fee. I can 
understand why Mr G is frustrated that he didnt know this. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect HSBC to try to explain to each customer the circumstances in which the booking fee 
might be refunded  especially as its policy might change. But HSBC could have told Mr G 
that the booking fee was refundable in the particular circumstances Mr G says he was 
concerned about  if, that is, Mr G had told HSBC this. 
Based on the available evidence (including recordings provided by HSBC of its calls with 
Mr G in June, August, September and October 2020) I dont think Mr G did tell HSBC he was 
worried about paying the booking fee because he wasnt sure hed go ahead due to possible 
problems with the property. 
The calls in June and early August 2020 were about the application and process. There was 
no mention of the valuation other than to ask when it would be carried out. Mr G didnt ask 
about the booking fee. 
There were two calls on 13 August 2020. Mr G asked when the valuation would be done. He 
was told it had been done remotely on 4 August 2020. The valuation was lower than the 
purchase price. Mr G asked about challenging this, but HSBC said as the valuation was 
sufficient for lending purposes it wouldnt ask for a physical valuation. Mr G said he was 
confident about the purchase price and he was having his own survey anyway. Most of the 
time spent on these calls were taken up with discussions about Mr Gs income and tax 
calculations. 
When he raised his complaint with HSBC Mr G said delays were caused by HSBCs 
inadequate valuation process which resulted in an incorrectly low valuation. He said this made him nervous and this was why he was reluctant to pay the booking fee. In his 
complaint, Mr G said a desk top valuation isnt a real valuation and this meant he had to 
instruct his own valuation. This isnt consistent with what Mr G said on the calls on 13 August 
2020. In these calls he said he was having his own survey and he was confident about the 
price due to the location of the property and his own experience in the property market. 
Mr G says there are other calls where he did tell HSBC why he was holding off paying the 
booking fee. Ive checked HSBCs records and it provided recordings for all of the calls with 
Mr G noted in its records during this period. Mr G says there must be other calls. I havent 
seen anything to suggest HSBC hasnt provided recordings for all the calls its aware of.
Mr G said hed applied for a buy to let mortgage a few years earlier and the product fee 
wasnt refunded. He said he hadnt been told there had been a major policy change since 
then. I dont think its reasonable to say that HSBC had to keep Mr G updated with any policy 
changes. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Mr G told HSBC before early September 2020 
that he was holding off paying the booking fee due to concerns the purchase might not go 
ahead. I dont think I can fairly find that HSBC should have told him the fee would be 
refunded in those circumstances.
Should HSBC have told Mr G when it changed its range of mortgage products?
Mr G says HSBC didnt tell him it had pulled his mortgage offer. Thats not quite right. HSBC 
didnt issue a mortgage offer until October 2020. What did happen was that HSBC changed 
its range of interest rate products. The product Mr G had applied for was withdrawn.
HSBC wrote to Mr G on 9 September 2020 saying he needed to pay the product fee to 
proceed. The letter said the interest rate/product Mr G had been interested in may not be 
available and he may need to select a new one. 
Mr G called HSBC on 22 September 2020. Mr G said hed received a letter in the post about 
paying his application booking fee and wanted to confirm the rate he was applying for was 
still the lowest rate HSBC offers. Mr Gs call was with the underwriting team rather than the 
mortgage adviser and the staff member said he didnt have access to the rates available at 
that time. Mr G asked him to check what hed applied for and he would then check the rates 
on-line. Given what Mr G said on this call, I think he was aware that the range of product 
rates available might have changed. He had the opportunity to look into this, as he said he 
intended to do.
Mr G then asked about the process and timing once the booking fee was paid  essentially, 
he was checking that paying the booking fee was the last step to generate the offer. The 
adviser confirmed this and went on to say that the fee reserves the interest rate. Until then 
the rate could be withdrawn and hed have to re-apply with a new product. 
HSBC ought to have been able to tell Mr G on this call that the rate hed applied for was no 
longer available. But the staff member did tell Mr G he didnt have access to the current 
rates and Mr G said hed check the rates online. And while it would have been better if 
HSBC had told Mr G the rate was no longer available, I dont think I can fairly find that Mr G 
would definitely have taken out a mortgage elsewhere at a better rate. Even assuming a 
better rate was available to him, hed have had to start the application process with another 
lender and hes told us he was under time pressure from the sale and purchase chain.Putting things right
Mr G had to choose a new product and re-submit his application in October 2020. He says 
he was under time pressure, and this must have been stressful. Some of this stress could 
have been avoided if HSBC had told Mr G earlier the product had been withdrawn. I think its 
right that HSBC pays compensation. Ive also taken into account that HSBC wrote to Mr G 
saying the product hed been interested in might not be available, and Mr G was aware that 
he could check the available rates online. In the circumstances, I think £300 is fair and 
reasonable.
Its unfortunate that the interest rate product Mr G wanted was withdrawn. HSBC can change 
the products on offer at any time, and I think Mr G was aware that the product he wanted 
might be withdrawn. HSBC didnt have to tell Mr G it had an internal policy change since his 
buy to let application some years before. I dont think its reasonable to say it should have 
set out the circumstances in which it would or wouldnt refund the booking fee. While Mr G 
says he told HSBC why he was holding off paying the booking fee the available evidence 
doesnt support this. I dont think HSBC made an error here that makes it fair and reasonable 
to require it to pay further compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay £300 to Mr G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman