DRN-3671052
The complaint
Mr M complains that American International Group UK Limited (hereafter AIG) misled him 
in relation to a claim for permanent total disablement. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties so I will only summarise what 
happened below. 
Mr M suffered a brain injury during an explosion in 2007 when serving for the armed forces. 
He continued to work for the military following that accident until 2019 when he was 
medically discharged. 
Mr M made a claim on a personal accident policy he held with AIG. AIG accepted Mr M had 
a mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and paid benefit for cognitive deficit, but Mr M said he 
should receive a permanent total disablement (PTD) benefit too. AIG disagreed and said 
Mr M hadnt satisfied the relevant terms and conditions for PTD, but let him know it would 
reconsider the claim if he could provide further evidence. 
Mr M complained. That complaint concerned a number of other matters too and was decided 
by a fellow ombudsman here at the service in July 2021. While that ombudsman concluded 
AIG hadnt handled Mr Ms claim unfairly, they did think it had caused some delay and their 
final decision instructed AIG to pay compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
that had caused. 
Following that decision Mr M made enquiries with AIG about providing further evidence to 
support his PTD claim. AIG said itd taken another look at the available evidence though, 
and should not have told Mr M that it could reconsider. It explained the medical evidence 
already available actually indicated that Mr M had stopped working because of Complex 
Treatment Resistant PTSD and mTBI  meaning the reason for his medical discharge wasnt 
solely and independently due to a bodily injury alone as the policy required.
Mr M raised another complaint, but while AIG maintained its claims decision it accepted itd 
advised the claim may be reconsidered in error and said it had not told Mr M of that sooner. 
To recognise Mr Ms expectations being raised for some time, AIG apologised and offered 
£800 compensation. 
Our investigator said AIG had fairly maintained its claim decline. But they acknowledged how 
frustrated and disappointed Mr M must have felt given what had happened and said the 
£800 compensation was a fair reflection of that. 
Mr M disagreed and said AIG had provided misleading information about reconsidering his 
claim and our previous final decision was void. So, as no agreement was reached the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I want to highlight that I may not address each and every argument made. I 
will instead focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint:
Mr M says AIG misled both he and this service and our final decision of July 2021 is 
consequently void. I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling about AIGs actions, but I 
do not agree that the final decision of July 2021 is void. Like the investigator before 
me I will not be revisiting the complaint that decision addressed and will instead be 
focusing my findings on what has happened since. 
AIG said it was unable to reconsider Mr Ms PTD claim despite what it had previously 
said because the available evidence didnt show PTD had arisen solely and 
independently from bodily injury, nor had occurred within two years of bodily injury 
either. The terms and conditions of Mr Ms personal accident cover explain, If, during 
the period of cover, you suffer bodily injury which, within two year solely and 
independently of any other cause, results in death, permanent disablement, specified 
burns, specified fractures, hospitalisation or flesh wounds, we will pay the total sum 
insured. They also define bodily injury as specifically meaning, Injury to the body 
caused by an accident and not by any gradual cause. And they confirm bodily injury 
does not include post traumatic stress disorder. 
I wont address the two year element here because that was addressed in the final 
decision of July 2021. But having looked at the medical evidence from the time of 
Mr Ms discharge from work I can see that two principle conditions were cited as 
affecting his employment. Those were Complex Treatment Resistant PTSD and 
mTBI. I note the board making the recommendation to medically retire Mr M said, 
The Board agreed that (Mr M) was permanently unfit for military service due to 
complex PTSD and MTBI and that he should be recommended for medical 
retirement. And so, given the terms of the policy required PTD to have been solely 
and independently caused by bodily injury  and theyd specifically explained bodily 
injury did not include PTSD either I cant fairly conclude that AIGs decision to 
maintain the declination of this claim was unreasonable. 
AIG accepts it erred in telling Mr M it could reconsider his claim and I agree. I 
appreciate Mr M says that phone calls will further evidence what AIG had said to 
him, but AIGs error isnt disputed here. Mr M was led to believe his claim would be 
reconsidered if he provided additional evidence and he was led to believe that for 
much longer than he should have been too. His claim was understandably very 
important to him and I recognise the frustration, upset and disappointment that AIGs 
error would have caused. It was right of AIG to both apologise and offer recompense 
for what happened.
Compensation isnt designed to be punitive; it should be a fair and proportionate 
reflection of the impact a businesss mistake has had on someone. AIG has 
accepted its mistake and in all the circumstances I think the £800 it has already 
offered is both fair and proportionate. 
While Im aware Mr M chose not to accept AIGs offer at the time, AIG has confirmed 
it remains available and I think it should now be paid.   Putting things right
AIG has already made an offer to pay £800 compensation to settle the complaint, and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that American International Group UK Limited should pay the £800 it has 
already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman