DRN-2547471
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S are unhappy with the service provided by Target Servicing Limited during a 
re-mortgage application.  
What happened
Mrs S owns a property. She has a mortgage on that property with a high street lender. She 
also used a help-to-buy loan to purchase her property, which is again secured against it. 
This help-to-buy loan is administered by Target.
In 2019 Mrs S reviewed her arrangements. It was decided that she wanted to re-mortgage, 
as her interest rate deal with her existing lender was ending, and add Mr S to the new 
mortgage as a joint borrower. This also required him to be recorded as a joint owner of the 
property with the land registry. To do both of these things, permission was required from the 
help-to-buy loan provider. These permissions had to be given separately, and in the case of 
the permission for the entry on the land registry to be changed, in a specific format. 
In May 2019 Mrs S contacted Target to inform them of her intention. She was told there was 
a £115 administrative fee that shed need to pay, which I understand was paid a couple of 
weeks later. The legal firm acting for Mrs S and Mr S in respect of the re-mortgage and 
associated legal work then contacted Target, requesting documents to allow the process to 
proceed.
There were several misunderstandings, on the part of Target, in relation to what Mrs S 
intentions were and why certain documentation was needed. And there were several phone 
calls between Target, Mrs S and the legal firm to clarify this. Eventually, at the end of August 
2019, it established why certain permissions were required. And the relevant form was then 
sent to the help-to-buy loan provider to be completed. 
The help-to-buy loan provider responded to Target in mid-September 2019 saying that 
additional information was needed. The documents it asked for were already on file. But 
Target did not realise this and requested these again. They were eventually forwarded to the 
loan provider at the end of September 2019.
During this time, Mrs S and Mr Ss mortgage offer, from their new lender, had expired  as 
the process had been ongoing for several months. Theyve said that they needed to apply 
again, meaning they incurred additional fees.
Mrs S contacted Target by phone several times for an update. And I can see that she raised 
concerns about how long things had been ongoing, as her existing mortgage had reverted 
onto a variable interest rate, so the delay was causing her to incur additional costs each 
month.
At the end of October 2019 Target said that loan provider would not be providing the 
requested consent. The reason was that it has begun a review of its processes into this, and 
while that review was ongoing, no new consents would be granted. Target confirmed that 
this review began on 15 October 2019.
I understand that, in order to mitigate any further losses, Mrs S took a new interest rate deal 
with her existing mortgage provider in November 2019, so that she was no longer incurring 
interest at the lenders standard variable rate. 
Mrs S and Mr S complained to Target about the poor service theyd been provided 
throughout the application. They did not initially receive a response from Target so asked our 
service to consider the complaint.
Target has since provided a response to Mrs S and Mr S. It agreed that it had made errors. It 
said its record keeping had been insufficient  with the initial discussion between it and Mrs 
S about her intentions not fully recorded. It acknowledged that it missed chances in 
correspondence with the legal firm and Mrs S to clarify things it had not understood. And 
following this its representatives had not correctly understood the processes involved and 
why certain information was being requested. It accepted it had caused a delay to the 
relevant form being sent to the buy-to-let loan provider of over eleven weeks. And it 
acknowledged it had caused a further delay, when the buy-to-let loan provider had asked for 
additional information, by not checking to see if this was already available. 
To put things right it offered to refund the £115 administrative fee and pay Mrs S and Mr S 
£95 for the trouble and upset caused. It also said itd pay a further £60 for the delay in 
responding to their complaint. And I understand from Mrs S and Mr S that these amounts, 
totalling £270, have already been paid to them. Target also said it would consider refunding 
other costs incurred. So, it asked that Mrs S and Mr S send proof of the additional monthly 
mortgage costs theyd had to pay, as well as proof of any other costs, for it to consider. 
Mrs S and Mr S asked our service to consider whether the offer made was fair. One of our 
investigators looked into matters but didnt feel the offer went far enough and recommended 
that Target pay a further £100 for the upset caused.
Target did not agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. Its response somewhat 
contradicted its own final response by saying the delays were outside of its control.
As Target did not agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Targets final response to Mrs S and Mr S and in its initial submissions to our service it 
acknowledged and accepted it had made several errors  as Ive summarised above. 
Ive reviewed all of the information provided by both parties and, despite what Target has 
said more recently in response to our investigators opinion  that the delays were largely 
outside of its control  I find that what it summarised in its final response was in fact correct. 
Im satisfied it did make several mistakes. Its representatives were confused about the 
process on several occasions. And there was confusion regarding the permissions being 
asked for  as it didnt seem to understand that permission for the new mortgage to be in 
joint names was different to making a change to the land registry entry for the property. It 
seems to have missed several opportunities to clarify this. And this all caused delays to the 
relevant documents being forwarded to the buy-to-let loan provider for completion. Which 
has ultimately meant that the relevant permissions were not provided, as the loan provider 
has since undertaken a review of its processes.As Im satisfied that errors have been made, I think it is fair that Target attempt to put things 
right. So, all that is left for me to decide is whether what Target has offered to resolve 
matters is fair. 
Had it not been for these delays, Im satisfied that the relevant permissions would likely have 
been provided and the re-mortgage wouldve been processed. Target has accepted causing 
delays in excess of eleven weeks. And has also acknowledged that the usual turnaround 
time for the relevant permissions to be approved by the buy-to-let loan provider was four to 
six weeks. The loan provider began a review of its permissions processes on 15 October 
2019. But prior to that permissions were being granted. So, it seems likely, without the 
delays caused, this would all have gone through and the matter wouldve been concluded 
before that review began. And this wouldve allowed Mrs S and Mr S to take up their new 
mortgage offer.
Target did though offer, in the final response it sent in October 2020, to consider costs 
incurred by Mrs S and Mr S as a result of this, and potentially cover these. Although this was 
not discussed further in the investigators opinion or Targets subsequent response, I think 
this is fair. Where a business makes an error, we would expect them to try and put 
consumers, as close as possible, in the position they would otherwise have been in had that 
error not occurred. And providing a refund of the reasonable additional costs incurred by Mrs 
S and Mr S, as a result of the re-mortgage not going ahead because of the delays Target 
caused, would appear to do that. 
Target has asked for evidence of the impact this has had on the monthly repayments  the 
additional amounts Mrs S and Mr S have needed to pay. And it asked for evidence of any 
other costs incurred. I think it is reasonable that Target would want to see evidence of these 
costs before agreeing what it is willing to refund. Mrs S and Mr S has sent some details of 
these costs to our service, which our investigator has forwarded to Target for review, 
alongside this decision. 
Overall, I think Targets offer to consider and potentially refund these costs is reasonable. I 
think it should consider the information provided, as it has indicated it would, and discuss the 
matter with Mrs S and Mr S. If an agreement cant be reached, Mrs S and Mr S would be 
free, if they wanted to, to make a separate complaint about this issue. 
In addition to this offer, Target also refunded the administrative fee of £115 originally 
charged in respect of the application. I also think this is reasonable. Ultimately the poor 
service and delays by Target led to the process not concluding. So, I think it is reasonable 
that the cost of this process be refunded. 
I also think the £60 paid by Target for the delay in responding to the complaint is fair.
Lastly, to address the trouble and upset caused by its actions, Target paid Mrs S and Mr S 
£95. While the other proposals made by Target to put things right are in my view fair, like our 
investigator, I dont think this goes far enough. Mrs S and Mr S were chasing matters for a 
prolonged period  from as early as August 2019. During that time, in particular the calls 
they had with Target, they were given incomplete and sometimes conflicting information, 
when compared with what was shared with their legal representatives. I dont doubt that this 
was very frustrating. And bearing in mind they were in the process of re-mortgaging, which 
can at the best of times be a stressful process, I think this is likely to have been upsetting. 
And then to be told that the permission to complete the process wasnt going to be given  
particularly when this was through no fault of their own  would also in my view have been 
distressing. Target has said that it was the loan providers decision to review its processes. 
And this is true. But as Ive already established, I think it was the delays by Target that 
caused this to become an issue to begin with.So, taking everything into account, like our investigator I think Target should make an 
additional payment to Mrs S and Mr S for the upset caused. And taking everything into 
account I think an additional payment of £100, as our investigator suggested, would be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint.
To put things right, in addition to the £270 already paid in total, Target Servicing Limited 
should pay Mrs S and Mr S a further £100 for the upset caused by its actions.
Target Servicing Limited should also honour what it has proposed in its final response of 26 
October 2020  to consider, and potentially refund, reasonable additional costs incurred by 
Mrs S and Mr S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman