DRN-3120737
The complaint
AXA France IARD has now taken responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill
refer to AXA France as the seller in my decision.
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001.
Miss J says AXA France mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
AXA France had to make Miss J aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent 
before adding it to her card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Miss J applied for
her card and PPI. AXA France has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Miss Js
store card application form had a separate section for PPI which was signed separately from
agreeing to the card itself. Miss J then signed the application again in agreement with the
selections that were made on it. Miss J was agreeing to an important financial commitment,
so, I would still have expected her to have checked over the form before signing. With the
information available I think Miss J would have known she didnt have to take the PPI and
she chose to have it.
AXA France didnt recommend the policy to Miss J so it didnt have to check the policy was
suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about the policy so she 
could decide if she wanted to take it out.
Miss J has told us she was self-employed at the time she took the policy. But the policy 
didnt make it any more difficult for a self-employed person to make a claim.
Based on what Ive seen of Miss Js circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Miss J has explained that she feels that even though she signed to take the policy it was still 
mis-sold as PPI was generally mis-sold. While I appreciate Miss Js view it is often the case 
that PPI offered a useful benefit and it is not the case that all PPI policies were mis-sold.
Which means AXA France doesnt have to pay back to Miss J the cost of the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman