DRN-1915312
 
The complaint
Ms L complaint is that Nationwide Building Society has sent compensation for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to The Insolvency Service. Ms L says Nationwide should 
have paid the compensation directly to her.
What happened
Ms L complained to Nationwide about a PPI policy sold to her with a loan in 2004.
Nationwide upheld the complaint and offered compensation of £2,381.74. But Nationwide 
said that because Ms L had been declared bankrupt in 2008 it would send the compensation 
to The Insolvency Service.
Our adjudicator thought Nationwide had acted correctly. Ms L disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L was sold the PPI before she went into bankruptcy in 2008. That means any 
compensation due counts as an asset she held when she entered bankruptcy. The 
Insolvency Service has confirmed that it retains an interest in any compensation due from a 
PPI sold before Ms L was discharged.
When Ms L was discharged from her bankruptcy later in 2008 it didnt mean her debts no 
longer existed. It meant that creditors couldnt chase her to pay back the outstanding debt. 
But the debts still existed. 
So when Nationwide calculated the PPI compensation it owed Ms L it needed to pay the 
compensation to The Insolvency Service so that it could be distributed to the creditors that 
were party to the bankruptcy.
Ive taken into account what Ms L has said about her circumstances. And I appreciate it must 
be frustrating for her to have gone to the trouble of making this complaint, only to find she 
wouldnt receive the compensation directly. But from what Ive seen Nationwide has acted 
correctly in passing the compensation to The Insolvency Service.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society acted properly in sending the 
compensation from the mis-sold PPI to The Insolvency Service. It follows I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman