DRN-3649719
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that they were not happy with Shawbrook Bank Limited 's 
offer of settlement for his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought solar panels for their home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr 
and Mrs P into believing that the panels would pay for themselves within 6 years.
The loan had a term of 10 years. No payment was due for the first 12 months, but the loan 
was interest free if repaid within that time. Mr and Mrs P say they always intended to repay 
the loan within that time and pay no interest, which is what they did. Mr and Mrs P say they 
understood that in doing so the solar panels would pay for themselves after 6 years. But that 
if they did not do this, and instead paid interest on the loan, that payback time would be 
longer. 
Shawbrook offered Mr and Mrs P £2,000 in settlement of the claim. It said that its usual 
method of calculating settlement in a case like this would be to, in effect, make the solar 
panels self-funding within the term of the loan - 10 years in this case. And that its 
calculations (based on the expected annual generation shown in the MCS certificate) 
showed that Mr and Mrs P would not be due a payment, since the benefits over 10 years 
would exceed what theyd paid for the solar panels.
Mr and Mrs P referred the complaint to us. They argued that the solar panels should be 
made self-funding over one year, as they always intended to repay the loan within that time. 
Or at worst over 6 years, since this is how long they were told the solar panels would take to 
pay for themselves. They also said that the solar panels have actually generated much less 
electricity than expected  so any calculation should use the actual amounts generated so 
as not to over-estimate the benefits they have or will receive.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was upholding the complaint and how 
Shawbrook should put things right. Mr and Mrs said they would accept my provisional 
decision. Shawbrook did not respond within the given deadline. So this final decision is in 
line with what I said in provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I
don't consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision. Shawbrook have accepted 
that the complaint should be upheld and made an offer of settlement. So, I don't need to 
decide whether there was a misrepresentation - only what must happen to put things right.
Looking at the documents from the time of sale it is clear that Mr and Mrs P were told the 
solar panels would pay for themselves within 6 years  this is shown clearly in the contract.
Given that they bought the solar panels intending to pay off the loan within the 12 month 
interest free period, I think their expectation was that if they did so, then after 6 years the 
cumulative benefits of the solar panels (through feed-in tariff payments, and savings on 
energy bills) would be equal to or more than the amount they paid for them.
In light of this, thinking holistically about the benefits Mr and Mrs P will receive from the solar 
panels over their lifetime (generally 25 years) and bearing in mind the specific circumstances 
in this case, as well as the need to be fair to both Mr and Mrs P and Shawbrook, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Shawbrook to calculate redress based on the benefits of 
the solar panels over 8 years. I think that using the benefits over fewer years than this would 
mean that the redress is unfairly advantageous to Mr and Mrs P  in that they would have 
paid significantly less than the sale price of the solar panels  and would be unfair on 
Shawbrook. I think that using the benefits over 8 years strikes the right balance in terms of 
fairness, to recognise and put right what went wrong in a way that is fair and reasonable in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
Because so long has passed since the solar panels were installed, we know how they have 
performed. Shawbrook should use the actual generation figures in its calculations (3,764 
kWh per year), rather than the estimated figure shown on the MCS certificate. Given the 
solar panels have generated significantly less electricity than estimated at the time of sale, 
using the MCS estimate would give a false indication of the benefit  to the detriment of Mr 
and Mrs P.
By Shawbrook's own calculations, it appears this would result in a settlement in excess of 
the £2,000 it has so far offered. As such, I intend to uphold this complaint and tell 
Shawbrook to put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
I currently think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs P's complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by restructuring the original loan based 
on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs P from the solar panels over 
an 8-year period so they pay no more than that, and they keep the solar panel system and 
any future benefits. The benefit calculation should use the actual generation of 3,764 kWh 
per year rather than the estimate on the MCS certificate.
Because Mr and Mrs P have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference 
between what they paid in total and what the loan would have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest per year for the time they were without the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman