DRN-1476397
 
The complaint
 Mr S complained that MYJAR Limited provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened 
Mr S complained about two instalment loans he took out with Myjar.
Heres a table showing loan details:
 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 08/12/2017 23/02/2018 3 £100.00 £56.55
2 04/03/2018 Outstanding 6 £400.00 £119.19
 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and Myjar told us about these loans. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Myjar to ask Mr S for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. 
And she didnt think that there was anything in the information Mr S provided or the 
information Myjar shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what Mr S had told Myjar. 
Also, our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr S took, the amounts they were 
for or the period of time he was borrowing shouldve made Myjar realise that he mightve had 
underlying money problems.
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
Mr S said that Myjar shouldve obtained copies of his bank statements and that proportionate 
checks wouldve shown that his outgoings were far in excess of those assessed by the 
lender and that hed already had a number of outstanding payday loans from other 
companies in the preceding 3 months.What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Myjar provided Mr S with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Myjar needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Myjar was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr S before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Myjar says it agreed to Mr Ss application after carrying out eligibility, creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. And it relied on information Mr S provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from credit reference agencies. Myjar says the 
information it recorded for Mr S showed that repaying the loan balances shouldnt become 
difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
loan 1
I dont think Myjar was wrong to lend Mr S loan 1. This was his first loan with Myjar and so 
I think Myjar was entitled to rely on the information Mr S provided. This suggested that he 
was well able to afford this borrowing. There wasnt anything else shown in the checks Myjar 
did that suggested otherwise. 
At this early stage, Mr S didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Myjar to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that there was anything in the 
information Mr S provided or the information Myjar shouldve been aware of, which meant 
that Myjar shouldve taken steps to verify the information Mr S had declared. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr S took out the second loan quite soon after paying loan 1  and it was for four times the 
amount of loan 1. But I dont think that was enough to make Myjar think that it shouldnt have 
kept lending to Mr S. Myjar asked Mr S to update the information he provided about his finances each time he 
applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for Mr S. There 
was no material change in his financial circumstances. And there wasnt anything to indicate 
to Myjar that Mr S had found it hard to manage the loan repayments for loan 1  or that 
paying for this loan was likely to become a problem. 
So I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ss complaint about loan 2.
Looked at overall, bearing in mind the amount of the total monthly repayments he had to 
make for each of his loans, the questions Myjar asked Mr S and that these were Mr Ss first 
two loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for Myjar to rely on the level of information Mr S 
was providing.
Ive taken into account everything Mr S has said, including his comments in response to our 
adjudicators opinion and his view that Myjar shouldve obtained his bank statements before 
agreeing to lend to him. 
But at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve 
required Myjar to ask Mr S to prove what he was declaring or check other information 
sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I think its reasonable to say that Myjar was entitled to decide Mr Ss lending applications 
based on the information it had available at the time. And its lending decision doesnt seem 
unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied on when deciding whether to provide 
these loans.  
Im sorry that Mr S found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality Mr Ss 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Myjar says it obtained. 
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Myjar did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr S. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mr S has been hoping for  but I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman