DRN-2799248
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA, wouldnt reimburse her under their 
Buyer Protection scheme for the cost of an item which she believed didnt match the 
description as it had been advertised.
What happened
Miss P purchased an item online and made payment using her PayPal account. When the 
item arrived, Miss P didnt feel that it matched the description as advertised. So, she 
contacted PayPal and made a claim via their Buyer Protection scheme on the basis that the 
item received was significantly not as described.
PayPal considered Miss Ps claim, but they didnt feel that the item was significantly not as 
described and so they didnt feel that Miss Ps claim met the criteria for reimbursement under 
the Buyer Protection scheme. Miss P wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint.
PayPal looked at Miss Ps complaint, but they reiterated their position that they didnt feel 
that Miss Ps claim was one that qualified for reimbursement under their Buyer Protection 
scheme. So, they didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P wasnt satisfied with PayPals response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Miss Ps claim 
was such that PayPal should reimburse her under their Buyer Protection scheme, so they 
also didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The item in question here was described as being used, as being all in exceptional condition, 
but with a small defect, the details of which were explained. 
Miss Ps claim that the item was significantly not as described was on the basis that she felt 
that the item wasnt all in exceptional condition, but rather that the item showed signs of 
being significantly used. 
PayPals rejection of Miss Ps claim was based on the fact that the seller had listed the item 
as being used, and also because the seller had included accurate photographs of the item 
which had been available for Miss P to review before she purchased the item.
Having reviewed all the information available to me here, its difficult for me to disagree with 
PayPals assessment of this claim, and I say this because, ultimately, this was a used item 
that Miss P was purchasing, and it was described as being used in the advertisement.
I understand that Miss P feels that the description of the item as being all in exception 
condition was misleading. But having viewed the photographs included in the sales 
advertisement and also photographs sent by Miss P herself upon receipt of the item, Im not 
convinced that this description is misleading, at least not to the degree that I would consider 
upholding Miss Ps complaint here.
I say this because the item has a foam element, and it is this foam that Miss P feels isnt in 
exceptional condition. But given that the item is being described as all being in exceptional 
condition in the context of it being a used item, and given that the description of a used item 
on the website from which the item was purchased includes that it might contain signs of 
cosmetic wear - such as the foam element on this item does - I dont feel that its reasonable 
or fair to say that the condition of the item was misrepresented to Miss P, prior to her 
purchasing it.
Additionally, as mentioned, the sale advertisement included photographs of the item, 
including a photograph of the foam element of the item, and when compared with the 
photographs that Miss P has provided herself, the sales advertisement photographs appear 
to be accurate.
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that PayPal have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here by not agreeing to reimburse Miss P under their Buyer Protection 
scheme on the basis that the item she purchased was significantly not as described.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking PayPal to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss P was wanting, 
but I hope that she can understand, given everything that I have explained, why I have made 
the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman