DRN-3989591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of their motor 
insurance claim.
Mr F is the policyholder and Mrs F is a named driver. As Mrs F has mainly been dealing with 
the complaint, Ill refer mostly to her in my decision. 
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In late 2022, Mr and Mrs F made a claim under their motor insurance policy with Admiral 
after their car was damaged in an accident.
Mrs F complained to Admiral about the service shed received. There was a delay in the 
vehicle being recovered and the hire car being arranged. Mrs F says she had difficulty 
getting through to Admiral. She spent a long time waiting on the phone and wasnt called 
back as promised. Mrs F says she had to find her own garage to carry out the repairs and 
Admiral delayed authorising them.
Admiral acknowledged an inappropriate delay in getting the vehicle recovered. It paid Mrs F 
a total of £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs F remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. Our investigator 
looked into Mrs Fs concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. Our 
investigator thought the compensation Admiral had paid her was enough to put things right.
Mrs F disagreed with our investigators outcome. She made some further comments about 
Admirals communication. She said there was an unacceptable delay in receiving a courtesy 
car. She said she couldnt believe that Admiral could not find a suitable garage in November, 
before the icy conditions. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle a claim promptly and fairly.
I can see that Mrs F first contacted Admiral about the claim at the end of November 2022.
 
Having reviewed Admirals notes, I can see there were some issues with finding a garage to 
take the vehicle. The notes suggest this was due to garages not having capacity to take it. 
Admiral agreed for Mrs F to have the repairs carried out by a garage she had found herself, 
rather than one of its approved repairers. I think this was reasonable under the 
circumstances.
There was a further delay in the vehicle being picked up. Admiral has noted that the 
company tasked with recovering it needed to prioritise vehicles in dangerous positions due 
to weather conditions. 
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mrs F that her vehicle wasnt collected sooner. However, I 
think at least some of the delay was beyond Admirals control. In any event, Admiral has 
acknowledged an inappropriate delay in the time taken to recover Mrs Fs vehicle and has 
paid her compensation.
Mrs F says there was an unacceptable delay in her receiving a courtesy car.
The terms of the policy say:
If we instruct an approved repairer or another company to provide you with a courtesy car, it 
will be covered under your insurance policy. A courtesy car will not be provided until the 
repairs have been authorised.
I appreciate Mrs F feels she should have been given a courtesy car sooner. But according to 
the terms of the policy, she wasnt entitled to one until the repairs had been authorised. I can 
see that Admiral arranged for Mrs F to have a courtesy car around ten days after she 
reported the incident, as a gesture of goodwill. So, I dont think the delays in recovering    
Mrs Fs vehicle and authorising repairs had much impact on the time it took for her to receive 
a courtesy car.
Mrs F has also complained of issues shes had communicating with Admiral. She says she 
had difficulties getting hold of it, she spent hours on the phone, and she wasnt called back 
as promised. She also says Admiral delayed authorising the repairs, which meant they took 
even longer as the garage was no longer able to complete them straight away. 
I can see that Mrs F made quite a few calls to Admiral, and I think the communication from it 
and its agents could have been better on occasion. I also think Admiral was likely to be 
responsible for at least some of the delay in authorising repairs. I can see it chased the 
garage for an estimate several times. However, Admirals notes suggest there was a delay in 
reviewing the estimate once it was received. 
Mrs F says she would like to hold Admiral to account for extreme inefficiency. Our service 
doesnt have the power to fine or punish a business. I can only consider the impact Admirals 
service has had on Mrs F. I appreciate Mrs Fs frustration that matters didnt progress as 
quickly as they should have done, and she spent a lot of time on the phone chasing the 
various parties involved. But I think the £100 Admiral has already paid Mrs F, fairly 
recognises the distress and inconvenience it caused her. So, I dont require it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman