DRN-3802261
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund him the amount he 
lost as the result of a scam.
Mr M is being represented by a third party, but to keep things simple I will refer to Mr M 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr M saw an advertisement online about investing that had celebrity 
endorsement. The business was called Arox Capital (AC). Trusting the advertisement Mr M 
clicked on the link and completed a contact form. 
The following day Mr M received a call from AC and was persuaded to invest with it. On 
instruction from AC Mr M opened an account with the cryptocurrency exchange crypto.com 
from which funds were forwarded to AC.
Mr M initially invested a small amount and after seeing a small profit was persuaded to 
invest more. Mr M was then advised he had to pay tax on his profits and was persuaded to 
part with even more funds. 
It turned out that Mr M had fallen victim to a scam initiated by AC and he was unable to 
recover any of his funds. 
Mr M made the following payments on his Visa debit card between 6 April 2021 and 11 June 
2021:
1. 6 April 2021 - £222.30
2. 12 April 2021 - £3.002.12
3. 19 April 2021 - £2,510.91
4. 19 April 2021 - £5,382.79
5. 26 April 2021 - £10,000.00
6. 26 April 2021 - £3,259.17
7. 26 April 2021 - £5,809.77
8. 19 May 2021 - £599.74
9. 11 June 2021 - £10,446.52
Our Investigator didnt think HSBC should need to refund the payments Mr M had made. He 
said the payments were made to a legitimate business, most of the payments were of a low 
enough value to not trigger HSBCs fraud prevention measures and Mr M had previously 
made large payments and consecutive payments from his account, so the transactions were 
unlikely to cause HSBC concern.
Mr M disagreed with our Investigators view, so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr M and HSBC set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether HSBC should 
refund any of the money Mr M has lost because of this scam.
I can see that HSBC did not attempt to process a chargeback for the payments Mr M made 
from his Visa debit card.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr M was dealing with AC, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr M didnt 
make the debit card payments to AC directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(crypto.com). This is important because HSBC would only have been able to process 
chargeback claims against the merchant he paid (crypto.com), not another party (such as 
AC).
The service provided by crypto.com would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Ms payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, crypto.com provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr M paid. 
As the payments Mr M made on his card were to a legitimate business (crypto.com) and this 
business provided the service that was requested it is unlikely any attempt at a chargeback 
would be successful. So, I think it was reasonable the HSBC didnt attempt this method of 
recovering Mr Ms lost funds.
Mr M has accepted he authorised the payments he made to crypto.com so the starting point 
here is that Mr M is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
Mr M made nine debit card payments to crypto.com (a legitimate business) over a 66-day 
period between 6 April 2021 and 11 June 2021. Some of these payments were for 
reasonably large amounts but this wasnt unusual activity on Mr Ms account. Mr M had 
made other large payments from his Visa debit card over the previous 12 months including a 
£20,000 payment to NS&I on 12 January 2021. It would not be reasonable for me to suggest 
HSBC should stop all large payments its customers make especially when the payments are 
not considered irregular. It was also not uncommon for Mr M to make payments to the same 
beneficiary more than once in the same day.I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say HSBCs fraud prevention systems should 
have been triggered by the payments Mr M made on his debit card or that HSBC should 
have stepped in to help prevent the scam. So, I dont think HSBC is responsible for Mr Ms 
loss and I am not asking it to refund any of the payments Mr M made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman