DRN-2538603
The complaint
Mr H says he was misled by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc about the amount of an early 
repayment charge (ERC). Hed like TMW to refund part of the ERC.
What happened
Mr H took out a buy to let mortgage with TMW in early 2019. He took out a five-year fixed 
interest rate product. Mr H says TMW misled him about the amount of the ERC. When he 
switched to a residential mortgage a year later he had to pay an ERC which was more than 
hed expected.
Our investigator said the ERC was set out in the mortgage offer, which Mr H accepted. The 
investigator said TMW didnt give mortgage advice or recommend the mortgage so it didnt 
have to go through the terms with Mr H.  
Mr H didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H applied to TMW for a buy to let mortgage. Initially, he chose a two-year fixed rate 
product. This included an ERC of 2%.
The valuer estimated rental income at less than expected. This meant Mr H didnt meet 
TMWs criteria for the two-year product and the amount he wanted to borrow. TMW offered a 
five-year fixed rate product instead. Mr H says he was told on the call that other than the 
length of the product all the terms would remain the same. He says he wasnt told that the 
ERC would be 6%. Ive listened to the recording of this call. 
TMW said it couldnt offer the amount Mr H wanted to borrow with the two-year product. 
TMW said it wasnt giving advice, but as its stress test was different for a five-year product 
Mr H could borrow the amount he wanted with a five-year product. Mr H said he was happy 
with a five-year deal. There was no specific mention of the ERC.
I dont think its fair to say that TMW told Mr H that the only difference between the two-year 
and five-year products was the length and everything else remained the same. It is correct 
though that TMW didnt go through all of the terms on the call. It only told Mr H about the 
interest rate, the fee and the monthly payments. When TMW referred to the fee being 2% I 
think it was referring to the arrangement fee. When TMW told Mr H the amount of the 
monthly payment it said this was on the basis the fee was added to the balance: this 
supports it being the arrangement fee that it was referring to. 
While Mr H says he thought TMW was referring to the ERC when it said the fee was 2%, I 
dont think TMW would have known this. And I must take into account that the mortgage 
offer set out the ERC. I think its reasonable for TMW to expect Mr H to read the mortgage 
offer.
I dont think TMW needed to go through all of the product terms on the call. The product 
terms were set out in the mortgage offer. Mr H says he didnt receive the copy TMW says it 
sent to him. I think its reasonable to expect him to raise this at the time. He could have 
asked TMW or his solicitors for a copy of the mortgage offer. 
Mr H accepted the terms of the mortgage, including the product terms. Id expect him to 
check the mortgage offer before accepting it, especially as TMW wasnt giving advice and 
told Mr H he had to make his own decision about the product. 
I dont think TMW misled Mr H about the ERC. The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage 
offer, including the amount and when it applied. Mr H redeemed the mortgage while the ERC 
applied. I think TMW was entitled to apply the ERC and I dont think its fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances to require it to refund all or part of the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman