DRN-3036160
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Countrywide Principal Services Limited (CPS) arranged a contents 
insurance policy without her knowledge, which resulted in her paying for two policies. Miss G 
would like her payments refunded.
What happened
Miss G made a regular payment from her bank account in favour of CPS for seven years. 
She checked what it was for, having previously assumed it was linked to her mortgage, and 
CPS told her it was for her contents insurance policy. Miss G complained to CPS because 
she didnt think shed agreed to take out insurance during her mortgage application.
CPS looked into Miss Gs complaint. It accepted that shed had dual insurance and agreed 
to refund half of the premiums to her, recommending that she seek the other half from the 
other insurer(s).
Miss G didnt think the offer was enough. She asked CPS to refund all her payments 
because she didnt see why it should benefit from her money when she wouldnt have known 
she could make a claim. 
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold Miss 
Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
Firstly, I should clarify the parts of Miss Gs complaint Ive considered.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn't free to consider every complaint that's brought to 
us. We're governed by rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. They set out 
the complaints that we can (and can't) investigate. 
These rules include the time limits that apply to bringing a complaint to our service. DISP 
2.8.2 says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
Before our service can investigate a complaint, it must be satisfied that the complaint was 
referred in time. So, I must first consider whether the complaint was raised within six years 
after the date of the event.
The policy with CPS started in November 2013 so, under our rules, Miss G
wouldve had until November 2019 to bring her complaint. However, I can see that she didnt 
complain to CPS until December 2019 and she brought her complaint to our service in 2020. 
Both dates are more than six years from the policy inception and, therefore, fall outside our 
jurisdiction under the six-year rule.
For our service to consider this complaint outside the six-year rule, thered need to be 
evidence that Miss G wasnt aware that she had cause for complaint during that time. So, 
Ive looked at the evidence to decide whether Miss G was aware of the policy.
The sale
It seems that CPS sold the policy to Miss G when she took out a mortgage with it for her 
new-build home. CPS took details of Miss Gs need for various types of insurance and 
recorded that she wanted it to provide contents insurance, amongst other policies. The 
policy started in November 2013. But Miss G says she told CPS that shed source her own 
cover and I can see that she did so in February 2014. 
I dont think theres any dispute that Miss G had two contents insurance policies from 
February 2014, but I think its unlikely Miss G wouldve taken out a second policy if she knew 
she already had one with CPS. Thered be no benefit to her in doing so and, for that reason, 
I think its reasonable to accept that Miss G was unaware she had a policy with CPS and, 
therefore, no reason to complain.
Ongoing policy
CPS sent the policy documents and annual renewal letters to Miss G by post. Both parties 
agree that CPS used an incorrect address, albeit a variation of Miss Gs postal address 
based on the plot number and location. Miss G received CPSs final response letter to her 
complaint, addressed in the same way as the renewal letters, so it thinks she wouldve 
received them. Ive asked Miss G whether she received the policy documents and renewal 
letters and she said she didnt. 
So, Ive looked at the address CPS used and I can see that it wouldve been easy for the 
documents to be delivered to another house on the same road. The postcode was slightly 
different, but CPS used just Miss Gs flat number  there was no building number. On the 
same road is a house with the same number so, in the absence of reference to the actual 
building number for Miss Gs flat, I can see why the letters mightve been delivered to the 
house instead. Again, this suggests that Miss G was unaware of the policy and of any cause 
to complain.
Payment
CPS thinks Miss G had a duty to check the payments going out of her bank account. I dont 
necessarily disagree with this, but Miss G explained why she didnt think to question the 
payments sooner. Because the policy with CPS started at the same time as her mortgage 
with it, she believed the monthly payments were mortgage fees of some kind. Looking at the 
evidence CPS provided about the insurance recommendations made at the point of sale, I 
can see that it suggested four different types of cover, each with a monthly payment. One of 
those policies was linked to the mortgage payments and, if bought, would be taken on a 
monthly basis. Knowing that theres a lot to consider when buying a new home and taking 
out a mortgage, I think its reasonable to accept that Miss G didnt give much thought to the 
payments going out of her account initially.
However, Miss G said she complained to CPS about other policies she had with it, and CPS 
provided a copy of its final response. The letter is dated February 2018 and its clear that 
Miss G was aware that CPS sold her several policies and that she was making payments for 
them. Therefore, I think its fair to say she ought to have been aware of the contents 
insurance policy, too, in 2018. Thats because its clear to me Miss G was looking at her 
policies and payments more generally. So, while I accept that Miss G might not have been aware of the policy and cause for 
complaint initially, I think its reasonable to say that she ought to have been aware of the 
policy and payments in February 2018. While Miss G brought her complaint to our service 
more than six years after the sale, based on what Ive said here, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that she wasnt aware of the policy until 2018. Miss G brought her complaint to our 
service within three years of that date and, therefore, the sale falls within our three-year rule. 
For that reason I can consider Miss Gs complaint about the sale and the dual policy from 
November 2013 up to February 2020 which is when CPS issued the final response letter to 
her complaint.
Having decided that Miss Gs complaint about the sale falls within jurisdiction, Ive thought 
about whether CPSs offer to refund half of the premiums was fair.
I dont think theres any dispute that Miss G had two contents insurance policies from 
February 2014. Usually, when this happens, each of the two insurers will refund half of the 
premiums. That means the policyholder has only paid for one policy, and the insurers have 
shared the cost of cover. I can see why that is a fair solution in many cases. CPS offered to 
refund half of the premiums in line with this standard industry practice.
As I explained above, I think its unlikely Miss G received any policy documents or renewal 
letters, so Im satisfied she was unaware CPS sold her the contents insurance policy. CPS 
provided screenshots showing that she stated a preference for contents insurance. 
However, I dont think that is evidence that she agreed to buy the policy. I understand Miss 
Gs buildings insurance was part of a group policy, so I can see why she mightve indicated 
that she only needed contents insurance. But I havent seen any evidence to show that she 
agreed to take out the contents insurance policy. That, along with the fact that she took out a 
different policy herself when she bought her furniture and moved in (evidenced by delivery 
invoices); and moved to another insurer a couple of years later after shopping around, 
suggests to me that Miss G didnt know she had a policy with CPS. 
Further evidence of this is that Miss G made a claim on her other contents insurance policy 
but she didnt claim against the policy with CPS. While CPS thinks it is entitled to keep half 
the premiums because it wouldve been on risk and liable for its share of any claim, that 
appears not to have been the case here. And I think its unlikely Miss G wouldve ever 
claimed on the policy or declared that she had one to another insurer.
For these reasons, I dont think its reasonable that CPS offers to refund only half of the 
premiums. However, this brings me back to the point about Miss G complaining to CPS in 
2018 about her other policies. As I said earlier, I think its reasonable to say that Miss G 
ought to have known about the payments she was making to CPS for her contents insurance 
by February 2018 and she ought to have been aware that she had dual cover. So, from this 
point, I do think its fair for CPS to refund half of the premiums in line with standard industry 
practice.  
I understand that payments continued even after Miss G complained to CPS that she didnt 
want, or need, the policy. However, as Miss G didnt raise this with CPS until after its final 
response letter in 2020, its not something I can consider here. I can only decide on issues 
raised with CPS up to the point that it sent its final response letter. Miss G would need to first 
raise a formal complaint with CPS and give it the opportunity to resolve this issue. Because 
of this, I cant award compensation as part of this resolution for any upset Miss G felt when 
payments for the policy continued. Ive removed this part of the proposed resolution.
In summary, Im satisfied that its unlikely Miss G took out the contents policy when she 
bought her mortgage through CPS. As she had cover with other insurers during the same period, and made a claim under one policy, I think its fair to say CPS wasnt on risk. For that 
reason, I think it should refund all the premiums paid from inception to February 2018. 
Ive decided that as Miss G ought to have been aware of the policy by February 2018, CPS 
should refund half of the premiums in line with standard industry practice from February 
2018 up to the date of its final response letter in February 2020. While I cant require CPS to 
refund all payments taken after that date, by which time it knew Miss G had dual cover, it 
may wish to consider doing so.
In addition, CPS should pay 8% simple interest on the premiums which are to be refunded, 
from the date it became aware Miss G had dual cover.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and require Countrywide Principal Services 
Limited to:
refund to Miss G all premiums paid from policy inception to February 2018;
refund half the policy premiums paid from February 2018 to February 2020, and 
pay 8% simple interest* on the premiums which are to be refunded, from the date it 
became aware Miss G had dual cover.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
CPS said it didnt have anything further to add.
Miss G responded to say she didnt think it was fair to use the date of a complaint she made 
about other policies to decide that she shouldve been aware of the CPS contents insurance 
policy. She also said CPS hadnt acted on her request for email contact after explaining 
about her health issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the information again alongside Miss Gs comments, I havent seen 
anything which warrants a change in my decision. Ill explain.
Miss G doesnt think it was fair for me to use a date in February 2018 when she complained 
about other policies to identify when she likely became aware of the policy with CPS. I 
looked at this issue primarily to determine which parts of her complaint fell within my 
jurisdiction. However, as I said in my provisional decision, Miss G was looking at her policies 
and payments more generally around that time, so I think its reasonable to say she ought to 
have been aware of the policy then. 
I know Miss G thinks that penalises her because CPS can keep half of the premiums she 
paid from February 2018 onwards, but I dont agree. Thats because she can still claim back 
half the premiums she paid to the other insurer. So, overall, Miss G should be able to claim 
the full cost of the policy back, split across the two relevant insurers. I havent changed my 
mind about this issue and CPS will be required to refund all payments from inception to 
February 2018, and half of the payments from February 2018 to the date of its final response 
letter in February 2020.
Email contact
Miss G doesnt think CPS acted on her reasonable request to communicate by email only.CPS sent all of its renewal letters and policy documents by post. As Ive accepted that Miss 
G didnt agree to the policy, then I cant fairly say she wouldve provided CPS with preferred 
contact details. So, I dont think CPS did anything wrong here.
Moving on to the communication after she became aware of the policy, I can see that CPS 
replied directly to Miss Gs emails in which she asked for email replies, citing health reasons. 
So, CPS responded as requested to a clear instruction. I see that CPS sent its final 
response letter by post, which wasnt in direct response to an email from Miss G asking for 
an email reply. As Miss G hadnt asked for all communication by email  only replies when 
she emailed CPS - its likely that CPS followed its standard approach for communicating its 
final response. I understand that Miss G wouldnt have been able to open any letters that 
were delivered to her address. But as she received the letter, on this occasion I dont think 
CPS did anything wrong.
I must be clear that my decision applies only to communication up to the final response 
letter. As Ive said before, anything which happened after that date is a new complaint which 
Miss G must first raise with CPS.
Overall, I havent seen anything which persuades me to change my provisional decision, so 
it now becomes my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Gs 
complaint.
Countrywide Principal Services Limited must:
refund to Miss G all premiums paid from policy inception to February 2018;
refund half the policy premiums paid from February 2018 to February 2020, and 
pay 8% simple interest* on the premiums which are to be refunded, from the date it 
became aware Miss G had dual cover.
*If Countrywide Principal Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss G how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman