DRN-3468208
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that TSB Bank Plc recalled a Bounce Back 
Loan and closed its account without notice. 
Ms director, Mr P, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
M banked with TSB. The company successfully applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan 
in July 2020, drawing down a loan of £35,000.
In October 2020, TSB initiated a review of Ms account and its Bounce Back Loan 
application. The bank restricted access to the account while it did so, meaning that the 
company couldnt utilise the funds held therein.
Following the review, TSB terminated the Bounce Back Loan facility and demanded its 
immediate repayment. The bank applied the funds held in the account, of just under 
£35,000, to pay down the amount M owed on the loan. The bank also decided to close Ms 
account.
Mr P complained to TSB, but it maintained its position. So he referred the matter to us. He 
says the bank didnt inform him as to the actions it was taking or its reasons for them  and 
thinks it shouldve given him the opportunity to discuss whatever concerns it had. He says M 
was left without banking facilities and ultimately unable to trade, and that the matter caused 
him a great deal of stress.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ms complaint last month, setting out why I didnt think it 
should be upheld. I said:
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. On Ms behalf, Mr P applied to TSB for a 
loan of £35,000, so the company needed to have a turnover of at least £140.000. In 
the loan application he submitted, he declared a turnover of this amount. So TSB 
approved the application on this basis  with applicants required to self-declare that 
they met the eligibility criteria.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, with some of the funds 
having been utilised, TSB was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep matters 
under review. This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory requirements. So I dont think 
the bank did anything wrong in reviewing things in the matter it did.
Following its review, TSB decided that M wasnt eligible for the loan. And I think this 
decision was reasonable. The bank identified that the turnover going through Ms 
account was substantially lower than the £140,000 figure it had declared in its loan 
application. Ms tax returns also demonstrate that the company was turning over far 
less than £140,000 during 2019.
Mr P says he used an estimated turnover figure, based on projections of earnings 
from upcoming business. But only companies established during 2019 could use any 
projected figures. M had been established several years prior to its application and 
was required, under the rules of the Scheme, to provide its annual turnover for the 
calendar year 2019. This was clearly explained in the application form that Mr P 
completed:
You can apply for a loan which is up to 25% of your turnover in 
calendar year 2019  If your business was established after 1 
January 2019, you should apply the 25% limit to your estimated 
annual turnover from the date you started your business.
The application form that Mr P completed also included declarations that set out the 
importance of providing accurate information and the potential consequences of any 
errors in this regard:
I/We recognise that by providing information that is inaccurate in 
any material particular, I/we may be regarded as attempting to 
gain, or gaining, a financial advantage dishonestly and as such will 
be liable to criminal prosecution for fraud  as well as to the 
forfeiture of all loan proceeds 
Having correctly determined that M was ineligible for the loan it had obtained, I think 
it was reasonable for TSB to take steps to recover it. Under the terms and conditions 
of the Bounce Back Loan, the bank was entitled to terminate the loan and demand its 
immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This included where any 
representations or statements made by M proved to have been incorrect or 
inaccurate  as was the case here.
Under the terms and conditions of Ms account and the loan agreement, TSB had the 
right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any credit balance held in any other 
account with TSB by M to towards the repayment of any amounts owed to the bank. 
So I dont think it did anything wrong in removing the funds from Ms account and 
paying down the debt in the manner it did.
I appreciate that the immediate restriction of Ms account and its subsequent closure 
wouldve caused the company some difficulties. But TSB was allowed to take such 
actions in certain circumstances under the applicable terms and conditions, and I 
think it was justified in doing so here in light of its concerns. The bank wasnt obliged 
to give M advance notice of the restriction or explain the reasons for its actions.
I understand why Mr P is unhappy that TSB didnt give him the opportunity to discuss 
matters. I can see that, if he made a genuine mistake in using an estimated turnover 
figure, he wouldve welcomed the chance to explain this and see if there was a way 
of resolving the matter in another way. But there was no obligation on the bank to do 
that. Ultimately, in light of its anti-fraud obligations and the circumstances here, I 
dont think the bank did anything wrong in how it handled matters  ensuring that it 
recovered as much of the loan funds as quickly as possible.
I dont doubt that the closure of its account and termination of the Bounce Back Loan 
facility impacted Ms operations. But for me to require TSB to compensate the 
company for this, Id need to find that the bank did something wrong or unfair in taking these actions. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it did. So Im not 
intending to require TSB to take any action in response to this complaint. 
TSB accepted my provisional decision but Mr P didnt. He said hed made a genuine mistake 
in using a projected turnover figure that he believed was acceptable  and if it hadnt been, 
then TSB shouldnt have granted the loan in the first place. He said that if the bank had 
declined the loan application, then M would still have its account and its operations wouldnt 
have been impacted so severely. He also queried what prompted TSB to review the matter 
sometime after the loan had been given  and why, if the bank had suspected fraud, it had 
not filed a record with CIFAS (a fraud prevention service).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why the further comments and information that Mr P provided havent changed my 
mind.
Firstly, I understand Mr Ps disappointment as it seems he made a genuine mistake in 
providing a projection rather than the companys actual turnover. But as set out in my 
provisional decision, I think the requirements as to the information he needed to provide 
when making Ms application were made sufficiently clear  as were the consequences of 
providing incorrect information. Ultimately, even accepting that the erroneous information 
was genuinely provided doesnt lead me to a different view of how TSB dealt with matters 
once it spotted the discrepancy.
I understand Mr P is concerned by my reference to the banks anti-fraud obligations, but that 
wasnt to suggest that he had made a fraudulent application. Rather, that these obligations 
meant that the bank wasnt required to seek explanations from applicants about such 
discrepancies more generally  and so TSB didnt treat M unfairly in proceeding in the 
manner it did without discussing things with Mr P first.
TSB didnt need a reason to review Ms account or its Bounce Back Loan application when it 
did. It had a number of obligations, in respect of both facilities, to keep things under review. I 
understand Mr Ps points regarding the issues arising from the fact that TSB only reviewed 
the position sometime after approving the loan. But, as also explained previously, lenders 
were entitled under the rules of the Loan Scheme to rely largely on the information and 
declarations provided by an applicant  with a view to providing funds to eligible applicants 
as quickly as possible, given the purpose of the Scheme. So TSB was entitled to rely on the 
information that Mr P provided within Ms application when assessing the request initially.
It follows that I still dont think TSB is responsible for any losses that M suffered following the 
termination of the loan and closure of its account, which I still think were reasonable actions 
in light of the banks review. 
Finally, I note Mr Ps query as to why TSB hasnt notified CIFAS about the Bounce Back 
Loan application if it suspects that it was fraudulent. Not all suspicions of fraud will lead to a 
CIFAS referral. This will be influenced by the weight of the suspicion and the evidence 
available. Mr P says the application wasnt fraudulent  and so it can only be a positive that 
the bank hasnt registered any concerns with CIFAS. But there is no dispute that the 
application contained inaccuracies. Ive found that TSB correctly identified incorrect 
information in Ms Bounce Back Loan application and determined that the company wasnt eligible for the loan it had obtained. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I think 
the bank then took reasonable steps in light of that discovery.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman