DRN-1149916
The complaint
Mr R says Close Brothers Limited didn't cancel a GAP insurance policy when he requested 
this.
What happened
In August 2014 Mr R took out finance with Close Brothers for a car. A few days later he 
discussed GAP insurance with Close Brothers and also agreed to take that out. The 
agreement was that the full cost of the policy would be taken from Mr R after his finance 
agreement on the vehicle had been paid off.
Mr R paid off his finance agreement in 2019. And he was then contacted by Close Brothers 
requesting payment for the GAP insurance. Mr R said after taking out the policy hed 
emailed Close Brothers to cancel it within the 14 day cooling off period. 
Close Brothers says it didnt receive a cancellation request from Mr R. If it had Mr R would 
have received a confirmation to say his email had been received. It thought if he hadnt 
received this or any other response it would have been reasonable of him to follow this up to 
ensure his policy was cancelled. As he hadnt done that the policy premium still needed to 
be paid.
Our investigator noted the cancellation process set out in the policy terms was to write to 
Close Brothers rather than email. In any case as Mr R hadnt received any response to his 
email he thought it would have been reasonable of him to follow this up to check the policy 
had in fact been cancelled. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said although he hadnt received a confirmation of receipt he hadnt 
got anything to say the email hadnt been delivered either. If hed used the wrong details for 
Close Brothers it should have ensured that information was passed on to the right 
department. And the policy didnt say he needed to have confirmation of cancellation. So I 
need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr R believes he cancelled the policy within the 14 day cooling off period. Ive 
seen a copy of the email hes referred to. But the specific email address he used isnt listed 
in the policy terms and he's unclear where he obtained it from. And Close Brothers has told 
us it isnt a valid email address for it. In addition an email we sent to that address 
immediately resulted in a delivery failure. 
I agree with Mr R that if Close Brothers had received this email it should have passed it on to 
the correct department. But for the reasons I've explained I don't think it did. And I think 
it likely Mr R would have received a delivery failure at the time. Even if he didnt, in the 
absence of any confirmation of receipt, I dont think he could have assumed his policy had been cancelled. And I think it would have been reasonable of him to follow this up with Close 
Brothers. 
I also note that, following the sales call for this policy, Close Brothers wrote to Mr R to 
confirm his agreement to purchase the GAP insurance and said the premium would be 
collected after the finance agreement had been paid off. The policy then remained in place 
for the full five years that Mr R had finance on his vehicle. And whilst a claim hasnt been 
made, hes had the benefit of being protected. Had Mr R been involved in an accident during 
the time his policy was in place I think its likely his finance providers, who are also Close 
Brothers, wouldve notified him that he could claim on his GAP insurance. So I think Mr R 
has had the benefit of being protected by the policy and in the circumstances I dont think 
Close Brothers treated him unfairly in saying the premium for this remains payable. 
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman