DRN-3061702
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc incorrectly used money to repay part of an overdraft he
had with it. He says this has put him into financial difficulties and he needs assistance. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 13 September 2021. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and/or evidence by 27 September 2021. Lloyds 
responded to say that it accepted my conclusions and didnt have anything further to add. Mr 
B didnt respond. Below is a copy of what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mr B held an account with Lloyds, which had an authorised overdraft facility on it of £1,890.
He used that overdraft facility regularly. In around November 2017 Mr B lost his job, which
meant he was no longer in receipt of a regular salary. To assist him, he received job seekers
allowance and money towards his rental costs by way of a monthly housing benefit payment.
These payments were paid into his Lloyds account.
In February 2018, Mr B stopped actively using his account, but it continued to receive
housing benefit payments until May 2018. Earlier housing benefit payments had gone
towards Mr Bs rent, but later payments reduced the overdraft with the bank.
In July 2018 the account was still overdrawn by over a £1,000. Lloyds closed it and passed
the outstanding debt to its recoveries department. It says it sent Mr B a letter about its
intentions in May 2018. The debt was later sold to a third-party company for collection.
Mr B raised a complaint with Lloyds at the end of 2019. He said the Benefits Agency were
taking money from his wages for the housing benefit it had paid him. He said he believed his
account had been closed and so didnt think to check he was still getting the payments. Hed
opened an account elsewhere.
Mr B said it wasnt fair that the bank had taken this money. He said this situation had put him
into greater financial difficulty because he had less money from his salary to meet his other
financial commitments. He wanted Lloyds to refund the payments from the housing benefit to
help him with the difficulties he was facing.
Lloyds responded to Mr Bs complaint. It said that it didnt think it had made a mistake. It said
the account was closed over two years ago and so it wouldnt be providing a refund of the
payments.
Dissatisfied with Lloyds response Mr B referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators
looked in to what happened. He didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong when it
received the payments, but he attempted to mediate a settlement and asked Lloyds if it
would refund the payments as a gesture of goodwill to help Mr B. In suggesting this, he said
that the housing benefit payments had been earmarked for Mr Bs living costs.
Lloyds didnt think this was right. It felt Mr B should definitely get some assistance from third
party organisations as his overall financial situation was complex, but it didnt think it was
right it recreated a debt with it by refunding the payments.
The complaint was passed to me and as part of my review I asked Mr B to clarify why the
Benefits Agency had been seeking to recover money from him. Mr B confirmed that he had
started work again and so the housing benefit payments should have stopped. He said he
had contacted the job seekers department about this, but it hadnt notified the housing
benefits department.
For clarity, this decision is only dealing with Mr Bs complaint about the housing benefit that
was paid into his account and what if anything the bank should do about that.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I realise Mr B will be disappointed by
my conclusions, so Id like to explain why.
Im very sorry to hear about the situation Mr B is in  I sympathise as its clear hes under
considerable stress. But I must explain that in order to uphold this complaint Id need to be
satisfied Lloyds made a mistake and he suffered a detriment as a result of its actions, in
retaining the payments it did.
Here the funds were paid into Mr Bs account  hed given the Benefits Agency his account
details. Mr B says he thought his account was closed but the account still had an
outstanding balance on it and payments hes referring to went into the account while it was
still open. Lloyds says it wrote to Mr B in May 2018 to tell him that it would be closing his
account. So, it is the case that the account was still open up to the point it received the last
housing benefit payment (indeed the banks records show that it wasnt closed until July
2018 when it was handed over to its collections team). So, I dont think Lloyds made a
mistake in receiving the funds. But because Mr B was overdrawn the money was used to
reduce the overdraft.
Mr B says he told the job seekers department that he had started working again and it didnt
tell the housing benefit department this. And this is why he continued to receive the
payments into the account. Im sorry to hear the information wasnt passed on but to me it
seems that it is this that caused the situation with the Benefits Agency (and the difficulties
that followed) rather than any error by Lloyds.
I realise getting the funds back from Lloyds would be of great help to Mr B in terms of
assisting him with some of his financial commitments  hes mentioned some priority debts,
but I must bear in mind that this all happened two years ago and the debt has since been
sold to a third party. Having weighed up everything, I cant see that an appropriate way to
resolve this situation now would be for me to require Lloyds to recreate a debt here. Not
least because this would require it to lend to Mr B again, simply exchanging his obligation to
repay the Benefits Agency for an obligation to repay Lloyds.
Mr B has been dealing with the Benefits Agency about recovery of the money he owes or
owed. I think thats a relevant factor in my considerations because thats somewhat
superseded things. There are several external organisations that Mr B can approach for help
and advice with his situation, specifically in relation to any priority debts he may have, for
example, the Citizen Advice Bureau. If he hasnt already done so, I would urge him to
contact them. As I have said, I really sympathise with Mr B but I cant find any reasonable
basis to require Lloyds to do anything more.My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
set out in my provisional decision.  Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B is facing - I 
understand it would help him greatly if Lloyds were to give him the housing benefit payments 
it received into his account. But that would have the result of replacing one debt for another. 
And for the reasons I gave earlier, I dont think thats an appropriate way to deal with this 
situation. Things have moved on since this happened. If Mr B needs help, he should contact 
one of the debt advice charities or speak with the Benefits Agency to see what it can do to 
help.  However, as I dont find Lloyds did anything wrong, Im not going to require it to do 
anything here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman