DRN-3627915
The complaint
T complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly declined a 
claim made under a business protection insurance policy.
This claim is brought by Mr I on behalf of T as its director. Any reference to T or RSA 
includes the actions of any representatives or agents unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In February 2020 Ts business property was damaged by a flood.
T sought to claim on its RSA restaurant and business protection policy. RSA agreed 
to settle the contents claim, and the property was trading again some months after.
RSA considered the claim for business interruption and asked for Ts turnover prior to 
the flood. Ts restaurant manager (Person A)  who is also Mr Is father  provided 
monthly figures between April 2019 and February 2020, and from July 2020 to 
August 2020 when it re-opened.
Ts business had previously had a turnover of around £70,000 for the prior two years. 
T submitted that between the period of April 2019 and February 2020 the income had 
increased to around £145,000 for the year.
RSA requested evidence of Ts income. It said the period prior to the damage 
showed the turnover had doubled and T hadnt explained this.
T said after checking with its accountant, the figures for April and May 2019 were 
incorrect as it had provided a takeaway delivery service from June 2019 onwards 
which increased its overall turnover. It also provided revised details of following 
months and described details of its staff being furloughed and not being registered 
for VAT at that time.
RSA considered this information and again questioned it  given the speed of the 
increase. It requested further evidence including account records, bank statements, 
access to till rolls, and payroll details amongst other information. Around this time 
RSA relied on its fraud condition and voided the policy from the date of the claim and 
said it would seek to recover the contents settlement.
T agreed it had given incorrect figures but said this was an innocent mistake due to a 
calculation error on Person As part whod provided the information without input from 
Ts accountant and who was suffering from a severe medical condition. 
RSA interviewed Person A. Within this hed said hed estimated and calculated sums 
himself as official accounts hadnt been prepared yet, and that he didnt have the 
2019 records with him when preparing his figures. Ts representative has since said 
Person A wasnt good at maths and had been in poor health at the time of the 
interview alongside other circumstances. T said its accountant had provided the 
correct information to RSA in May 2021 alongside an apology. 
RSA stood by its position, stating T had failed to correct its errors when questioned 
and provided an untrue reason for increased turnover. And that Person A, as the 
manager of the business shouldve recognised the sums provided were wrong. So, 
Ts actions amounted to a gross exaggeration and a failure to present a claim fully 
and honestly in breach of the relevant law.
T brought the complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things and 
upheld the complaint. She outlined the requirements for an act to amount to fraud 
under the relevant legislation. And felt in this case Person A had made genuine 
mistakes and was lacking the intention to deceive RSA in order to make a gain. So, 
she said it should reinstate the policy, and consider the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
RSA disagreed. It reiterated its concerns and said any reason of mistake around 
Person As health had not been mentioned until the matter reached this Service. And 
that the clarification it provided around the takeaway service suggested T was in 
communications with its accountant yet did not seek any clarification on the figures.
RSA also said when questioned, T had failed to respond in a timely manner nor give 
reasons for its mistake, simply to ignore its first set of figures and rely on its follow up 
evidence. RSA also said T said it had always offered takeaway option (but not 
delivery), and estimated its income was split between diners and takeaway 
customers at a ratio of around 50/50. But this contradicted Ts earlier explanation for 
rapid growth when switching to delivery.
T said it has since stopped trading since July 2021 as it had been unable to obtain 
insurance elsewhere. It also said Person A was not a businessman nor financially 
literate  unable to use a calculator and had double counted invoices. And it said the 
initial comments about takeaway delivery explaining the increase shouldve been 
picked up by its brokers staff, but it had been handled by a junior staff member.
So, the complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
thoughts on 26 July 2022 explaining why I didnt intend on upholding the complaint. Ive 
included an extract of these provisional findings below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take 
into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
The requirements set out under the Fraud Act 2006 have been detailed between 
parties previously. Put simply, the Act sets out what is required of someone to be 
found guilty of fraud by false representation.
To determine if RSA has fairly said T has acted fraudulently, I have to consider if T 
dishonestly made a false representation and intended by doing so to make gain for 
themselves or another or cause loss to another.
Here, a representation is false if It is untrue or misleading, and the person making it 
knows that it is, or might be, untrue or misleading.
Person A  on behalf of T  provided figures to RSA that suggested its income was 
over double what it was in truth. This isnt in dispute.
The matter in dispute here is Person As intention behind providing this false 
information and whether he knew it was or might be untrue or misleading.
RSA put forward that Ts restaurant manager would be aware of the income of a 
restaurant. And that to provide figures that were reflective of over double compared to their previous last two years wouldve been clearly wrong.
T hasnt disputed Person A is the manager of the restaurant. And with that in mind, 
its unclear to me how someone in that position wouldnt reasonably have a 
knowledge or awareness of their businesss turnover. While I wouldnt expect this 
knowledge to be forensic, it strikes me as a reasonable comment from RSA that 
Person A would have reasonably known the figures they were providing were so 
much higher than the actual turnover.
When first asked about the increase, T put forward that this was related to its delivery 
trade that had started that year. But this wasnt an accurate answer to explain this 
difference either as has been established since. And within this clarification to RSA, T 
mentions having checked with its accountant. So, I think RSAs comments about this 
being Ts opportunity to check the sums in question and accuracy of submissions is 
entirely fair. And despite making reference to checking information with Ts 
accountant, the truth of incorrect figures did not come out at this time. And it wasnt 
until many months later that T agreed that Person A had made these mistakes.
Given the period it took T to provide clarity on the inaccurate sums, and the initial 
inaccurate statement to justify them, I think it was reasonable for RSA to draw 
conclusions that T had intentions to exaggerate the claim.
Ive thought about Ts commentary about Person As well-being and capability. I 
understand he had been very unwell, and the other circumstances described around 
the time he submitted the figures to RSA. T has gone as far as saying that Person A 
was unable to use a calculator. However, within his role as restaurant manager 
presumably his role would entail managing stock, money counting, alongside many 
other jobs that require some degree of financial literacy.
In addition, if T was aware of Person As financial illiteracy as it has alleged, then its 
unclear to me why T or Person A felt it was appropriate for him to present the figures 
to RSA without seeking support of its accountant or another member of the business. 
So, in light of the above, Ts points about Person A do not add up to me in light of the 
circumstances and the role they fill. And in turn, I think RSAs decision to class the 
Ts actions as fraud was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In turn, I have no concerns about RSAs decision to pursue any previous settlement 
for the related contents claim.
RSA responded to say it had nothing further to add. T disagreed, reiterating that Person A 
was employed to manage the business but he did not really run it and instead it was the 
owner who had the financial acumen. It provided a statement from Person A stating they had 
made a genuine mistake. It also said the manager assisted with day to day running but not 
accountancy as he lacked capacity.
Ts representative also said it had told Mr I to provide figures from the accountant, but RSA 
shouldve made this clear from the start. And it said that it was T that spotted the incorrect 
figures and first raised this with RSA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive taken into account all of Ts comments about Person As capacity and alleged financial acumen. But this hasnt changed my mind as this is largely a reiteration of 
the points Ive already considered. Again, I would comment that I find it unclear why 
T or Mr I would allow Person A to submit such figures or not check them in light of its 
comments about his capacity.
T has said RSA shouldve highlighted from the start of its request that the figures 
presented should be provided by an accountant. I disagree with this statement. RSA 
was requesting figures to be considered for an insurance claim that was directly 
related to the income and earnings of Ts business. So, I think its reasonable for a 
commercial business to understand that the figures would need to be accurate  and 
if it chooses to appoint an accountant to provide these, this is a commercial decision 
for that business. And as outlined above, the figures provided were over double the 
actual income, so this was not a small margin of error.
T has mentioned the relentless pressure it was under to provide the figures that 
may explain the reason it submitted inaccurate figures. But Im not in agreement this 
is reflective within the back and forth correspondence, so it hasnt changed my mind.
Ts said I should focus on T first raising the discrepancy in the figures to RSA. Ive 
carefully read all correspondence thats been provided, and Im not persuaded Ts 
comments here are reflective of what happened. I say this as it appears to me T 
submitted incorrect information to RSA, and when asked for evidence to support this 
it provided inaccurate and inconsistent information (referencing takeaway sales) as 
commentary to its figures, and only sometime after was it able to provide accurate 
figures and establish the alleged reasons for its mistakes. So, this hasnt changed my 
mind.
For all of these reasons, and those explained within my provisional decision, Im 
satisfied RSA has acted fairly and reasonably by classing Ts actions as fraud in 
these circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman