DRN-2328859
The complaint
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complain about the customer service they received from Starling Bank 
Limited when they asked it to raise a chargeback request on their behalf.
What happened
Mr H2 asked Starling to raise a chargeback request against an airline for a debit card 
payment made from his joint bank account with Mr H1. The airline had said it would refund 
them for cancelled flights but wasnt willing to reimburse them the 25 euro theyd paid for 
parking. The Starling advisor told Mr H2 they would raise the request with the relevant team. 
About a week later, Starling told Mr H2 it would not be able to dispute the transaction. It said 
this was because the parking was still available to them regardless of whether the flight had 
been cancelled or not.
Mr H2 raised a complaint with Starling. He believed it should have requested the chargeback 
because theyd paid for the parking as part of a package with the airline. The parking was of 
no use to them, now the flights had been cancelled.
After some further communication, Starling agreed to process the chargeback request and 
the money was credited to Mr H1 and Mr H2s account. Starling acknowledged it should 
have raised a dispute for flights earlier than it did and paid Mr H1 and Mr H2 £50 to 
compensate them for the inconvenience caused.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into their concerns but thought the £50 Starling had already paid them was enough to 
compensate them for the poor service theyd received.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 disagreed with our investigators opinion. Mr H2 felt the £50 Starling had 
paid would have been acceptable, if it wasnt for the actions of one particular advisor who 
had caused significant disruption and impediment to the matter being resolved.
As Mr H1 and Mr H2 disagree with our investigators view, their complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Starling has acknowledged the service it provided should have been better and has paid    
Mr H1 and Mr H2 £50 to put things right. Mr H2 feels strongly that this isnt sufficient to 
compensate him for the frustration and inconvenience hes experienced. So, Ive needed to 
decide whether £50 is a fair and reasonable amount to put things right.
It was no doubt frustrating for Mr H2 when he was initially told the chargeback request 
couldnt be raised. I understand he also spent time researching legislation and making sure 
he provided the correct information to Starling. Mr H2 was asked for information hed 
previously provided several times by one particular advisor. 
Ive considered all of Mr H2s points. Although there was some delay in doing so, Starling did 
successfully raise the chargeback. I acknowledge Starlings communication should have 
been better than it was. But I think the £50 Starling has already paid Mr H1 and Mr H2 is fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset theyve experienced. So, I dont require it to do 
anything further.
 
Mr H2 has also raised concerns about the length of time it took Starling to investigate the 
complaint. But complaint handling isnt something this service is able to consider, according 
to the rules sent by the Financial Conduct Authority. So, Mr H2s comments about this 
havent made a difference to the outcome Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr H2 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman