DRN-2552382
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) wont write off his outstanding credit 
card debt, and it should do so given his current health and financial position.
What happened
Vanquis sold Mr Hs debt to a third party in late 2019. It then purchased it back in 
late 2020. On purchasing the debt back, Vanquis reduced it by £479.46 for reasons not 
material to this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She came to the view that
Vanquis:
should have discussed with Mr H the management of his account going forward 
sooner than it did
should place Mr Hs account on hold, or keep it on hold, for six months from 
28 January 2021 and send him during this time only information and documents its 
required to send by law or regulations
should review Mr Hs financial and personal position with him every six months 
thereafter and, if appropriate, keep his account on hold for longer
need not write off the balance as sought by Mr H on the basis Mr Hs position may 
improve overtime
Vanquis responded to the investigators view to say, in summary:
its unable to undertake six monthly reviews as recommended
its not a financial advisor, nor a debt advisor
in any event it will be required from 4 May 2021 to comply with the Debt Respite 
Scheme (Breathing Space Moratorium and Mental Health Crisis Moratorium) 
regulations 2020 and under this legislation it will only be able to place a moratorium 
on an account once the borrower (in this case Mr H) has sought advice from an FCA 
registered debt advisor and applied for this moratorium via the Insolvency Service
Mr H responded to the investigators view to say that he disagreed with it and that his debt
should still be written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I can confirm that Ive come to
the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. There is also very little I
can usefully add to what has already been said.
Its clear both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. They have both
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can confirm Ive
read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that both parties will not take the fact
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and
reasons for reaching them.
Now I accept that Mr H holds the view that he will never be in the personal or financial
position to clear the debt in question so Vanquis should simply write it off, but I disagree.
In my view it cant be said for certain what the future holds and because of this I dont
believe its unreasonable for Vanquis to want to keep the debt open in its books. 
I will now turn to Vanquis treatment of Mr H. In doing so I can confirm that Ive had regard to 
Vanquis regulatory obligations under 7.3.2, 7.3.4 and 7.3.5 of the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) amongst other things.
Now like the investigator I do think Vanquis could have entered into discussions with Mr H 
about how his account might be managed going forward, given his personal and financial 
position, sooner than it did. But I dont think that this in itself warrants the making of any 
award by me in favour of Mr H.
However, despite what I say above, I would add that like the investigator I think that given
Mr Hs current personal and financial position Vanquis should place Mr Hs account on hold, 
or keep it on hold, for six months from 28 January 2021 and send him during this time only
information and documents its required to send by law or regulations. And that it reviews
Mr Hs financial and personal position with him every six months thereafter and, if
appropriate, it keeps the account on hold for longer.
Vanquis makes reference to the Debt Respite Scheme (Breathing Space Moratorium and 
Mental Health Crisis Moratorium) regulations 2020 that comes into force on 4 May 2021. 
However, its my understanding that this gives consumers additional rights to those they 
currently have and doesnt in itself stop Vanquis doing what I say it should do.
Vanquis submits that it isnt financial advisors or debt advisors. But Im not saying it should 
be giving Mr H financial or debt advice every six months. What Im saying is that it should 
consider continuing to keep Mr Hs account on hold every six months based on what Mr H 
tells it about his personal and financial position.
Finally, I can see that Vanquis says its unable to undertake six monthly reviews of Mr Hs 
account with him. Now I accept that Vanquis systems might not be set up to facilitate such 
reviews and that Vanquis might be disinclined to carry out such reviews, but Im not 
persuaded it cant carry them out.My final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis Bank Limited must:
place on hold, or keep on hold, Mr Hs account for six months commencing 
28 January 2021
review Mr Hs financial and personal position with him every six months thereafter 
and, if appropriate, keep Mr Hs account on hold for longer
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman