DRN-2336343
The complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) broke an agreement to pay
him a particular amount as a disturbance allowance following his home insurance claim for
damage caused by an escape of water. He also complains that his kitchen wasnt refitted in
the same state as when it was removed.
What happened
In May 2018 an escape of water was found to be occurring at Mr Ps home. He arranged to
trace, access and repair the leak himself before making a claim to RSA for the resultant
damage caused. RSA accepted the claim, appointed a loss adjuster to handle it, and agreed
to put Mr P and his family into alternative accommodation (AA) whilst the strip out and
repairs occurred, which it estimated would take around 2 months. RSA appointed an agent
to source appropriate accommodation.
At the start of September 2018, Mr Ps belongings  including everything in his kitchen 
were moved into storage. RSAs agent then informed Mr P that it had found a serviced
apartment nearby which Mr P said wouldnt be acceptable for a family of 5 and a dog. The
agent looked again but was unable to find anything suitable. Mr P also tried to find suitable
AA but was unsuccessful.
Mr P contacted the loss adjuster to explain the situation about the AA and to ask it to
authorise additional living expenses; an allowance of £100 per day (£20 per family member)
was agreed. As Christmas approached and the house was still being repaired, Mr P
contacted the loss adjuster to discuss the familys living situation. Mr P said the agreed
amount of £100 a day wouldnt be enough over the Christmas period with all three of his
children at home so he proposed an increased amount of £220 a day.
The loss adjuster said it was unable to authorise an increase and said Mr P would need to
contact RSA and make a complaint if he wanted to take the matter further.
Mr P made a complaint and received RSAs final response in late January 2019. He told
RSA during a phone call about his complaint that it was about his living conditions over
Christmas but this had now passed. RSA said its contractors had reported that much of the
house was habitable before Christmas except for the refitting of the kitchen units. It also said
that £100 was more than double what it would normally pay to its policyholders in such
circumstances, so to be fair to its other customers it was reducing his disturbance allowance
to £50 a day backdated to 31 December 2018.
Mr P complained again to RSA that it was unreasonable to reduce the disturbance
allowance and that the agreement between them was binding. He said the house was far
from habitable. RSA told Mr P that the offer to pay him £100 had been made in error but it
had honoured it until the property was restored to a better condition (lounge and dining room
reinstated and kitchen floor laid) which had occurred before Christmas.
Mr P disagreed that the dining and living room were usable as they were dirty and had no
furniture. So, he said that RSA had reduced the disturbance allowance before the familys
circumstances had improved. RSA said to Mr P that he had delayed repairs by not
responding to its requests promptly. Mr P disagreed and said RSAs contractors had been
responsible for any delays.
RSA said that a disturbance allowance was paid for being without cooking facilities and
wasnt based on how much disruption was occurring at a property or how long a claim was
taking. Mr P replied to say he understood a disturbance allowance included an element for
inconvenience to the insured. He said a £100 had been agreed and should be adhered to
until the house was restored.
Mr Ps belongings were returned from storage at the end of February 2019 and the kitchen
finally finished at the end of March 2019. Mr P was unhappy that the new kitchen floor had
been laid slightly higher than the old one which in turn caused issues with the refitting of the
kitchen units and particularly the dishwasher.
Mr P complained to this service. He said he wanted the full disturbance allowance agreed in
September 2018 paid through until the end of February 2019 when his furniture was
returned. He said he was happy to accept a reduced disturbance allowance from that point
until the kitchen was reinstated at the end of March 2019. He calculated that this meant RSA
should pay him £5,050. He said he also wanted an assurance from RSA that should there be
any additional costs when his dishwasher came to be replaced as a consequence of the
slightly higher floor, then they would be met.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He
asked RSA about guaranteeing any additional costs associated with replacing the
dishwasher, should that arise, to which RSA said that its standard 12-month guarantee
would apply to all the work itd undertaken so if Mr P had issues with the dishwasher within
the first 12 months it would look into them. And it said itd settled the outstanding invoices Mr
P had mentioned to this service.
Our investigator said evidence provided by RSA had shown that a weekly payment of £150
was to be made to Mr P for food purchase on top of the £100 a day paid as a disturbance
allowance. As Mr P had said hed never received such a payment, and as he was without
cooking facilities, our investigator said RSA shouldve continued to pay Mr P £100 a day
disturbance allowance until 26 February 2019 and then £50 a day from 27 February 2019 to
18 March 2019. He said it should now make up the shortfall.
RSA responded to our investigators opinion to say that it had never agreed to pay Mr P an
additional £150 per week on top of the £700 it was paying him. It said £100 a day was
almost triple what any other policyholder would receive and itd paid Mr P a total of £13,750
in all.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind so RSA asked for the complaint to be
referred to me. I issued my provisional decision not to uphold this complaint in October 2020. 
I made the following provisional findings: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. With regret for any disappointment this
decision will cause Mr P, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Alternative accommodation
The escape of water at Mr Ps home was from a pipe under his tiled kitchen floor. Ive seenthe photographs and note that a substantial section of the floor needed to be lifted. Damage
had also occurred to the flooring in the other downstairs rooms.
That being the case, RSA reasonably offered to move Mr P into alternative accommodation.
The repairs and drying out were scheduled to take 2-3 months in all. From the evidence Ive
seen a large proportion of the works were carried out before Christmas. There was some
outstanding decorating to do in January and the kitchen still to be reinstalled. I can also see
that Mr P arranged for some private works to be undertaken  new granite worktops and
different flooring installed for example  which unavoidably extended the period of time taken
to fully reinstate the home.
I appreciate that Mr P wanted to be placed in a similar property to his own. But finding
suitable AA for a family of 5 and a dog for less than six months is often very difficult  most
short term lets are for that amount of time as a minimum. So, Im not surprised that RSAs
agent  when searching for a two-month let - could only locate a serviced apartment about
three miles away. Mr P rejected the serviced apartment as unsuitable as it was too far away
for his children to walk to school. He undertook a search himself but appears to also have
had no luck. As a consequence of the lack of suitable AA, a compromise was reached
between Mr P and RSA whereby Mr P and his family agreed to remain in the home.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that RSA/its agent made a reasonable attempt to
locate a suitable alternative for Mr P, his wife, three children and his dog. And I think, in the
absence of being able to find anything that Mr P felt to be suitable, a reasonable
compromise was agreed in the circumstances.
Disturbance allowance
A disturbance allowance is paid by insurers to cover the extra costs associated with living
without essential facilities like a kitchen or laundry facilities. A consumers typical weekly
food bill is incurred regardless of the fact an insurance claim has been made and isnt an
additional cost that results from the claim. So, this service doesnt expect an insurer to pay
for a consumers typical weekly food expenditure  just a reasonable contribution to
recognise the additional cost of living without essential facilities.
In mid-September 2018, in the absence of finding suitable AA, Mr P said he would look to
stay in the property rather than move out, but he told RSA that if he was to do so hed need
a higher allowance for meals because he couldnt eat out and had no laundry facilities either.
RSA agreed that it would pay him £100 a day as a disturbance allowance. Mr P said he was
also looking for his laundry costs, a replacement microwave oven (at £856.87) and
accommodation for a night or so if required. RSA agreed and noted it would monitor the
payment of the allowance on a weekly basis.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that at no point did RSA offer to pay Mr P £150 a
week in addition to the £100 per day disturbance allowance. I can see that RSA asked Mr P
what his weekly food bill was and that he said it was £150. RSA told Mr P that any
disturbance allowance was in addition to his own typical weekly expenditure on food. Im
satisfied that any mention of £150 relates to Mr P telling RSA what his weekly family food bill
was not that it formed any offer of additional payment to Mr P. I note that Mr P accepts this
too.
Usually an insurer will try to find out from the consumer what their typical food bill is and
what additional costs they are incurring as consequence of being without essential facilities. I
can see that RSA asked Mr P about this but in the end it appears it agreed to pay the
amount he asked for without obtaining specific proof.In the absence of documentary evidence to show how much additional reasonable expense
is being incurred, insurers typically pay an allowance of £10 per day per adult and £5 per
day per child.
Obviously here RSA agreed to pay Mr P more than double the industry standard disturbance
allowance. I think it treated him fairly and reasonably by doing so. And I dont think it was
unfair for RSA to review the situation and reduce the amount it was paying after Mr P asked
for more money for the Christmas period, thereby prompting it to review the arrangement.
I can see it asked the contractor how the works were going and it reported that most of the
downstairs was reinstated bar the kitchen. As I said above, I can see that RSA decided at
the outset of the agreement to keep the payment under review. And the reduced amount it
paid from 31 December 2018 until April 2019 was still greater that the standard industry
payment. It also meant that the larger amount was paid all through the Christmas period
despite the reinstatement of much of the downstairs of the house. And in saying that I think
RSA treated Mr P fairly and reasonably, I also take into account that it paid for a microwave
as well and that he had private works undertaken during the course of the claim that
undoubtedly extended the time the repairs took and, therefore, the time RSA was paying the
disturbance allowance for.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr P incurred additional costs for being without a kitchen from 31
December that exceed the £350 RSA was paying him from this point onwards. I know that
Mr P has said the agreement between him and RSA was binding but Im unable to agree
that was how RSA perceived it. There is no evidence it was. Rather the only evidence Ive
seen is a file note from RSA the day the disturbance allowance was agreed that stated it
would keep the payment under review.
For me to decide RSA had unfairly decreased the disturbance allowance it was paying Mr P,
I would need to see evidence of actual expense incurred above and beyond the £350 he
was receiving. As Ive seen no such evidence, I dont think that RSA treated Mr P unfairly in
relation to the amount of disturbance allowance it paid him during the course of his whole
claim.
Finally, I note that RSA told Mr P after he made is claim that it had paid him £100 per day in
error. Ive seen no evidence that this was the case. I can see that there was a negotiation
over the course of several phone calls before RSA agreed to what Mr P wanted. Theres no
evidence Ive seen that this was done in error.
Compensation
Mr P has also said his downstairs wasnt largely habitable from just before Christmas
because it was dirty and the furniture hadnt been returned. All insurance claims  by their
very nature - attract a certain degree of inconvenience for the policyholder. Thats to be
expected. But payment of a disturbance allowance isnt made to compensate consumers for
the disruption and inconvenience their claim causes them.
If an insurer causes additional trouble and upset to a consumer in the way it handles a claim
 in other words, beyond the normal trouble of having to make the claim in the first place 
then this service can make it pay compensation. But here Ive seen no evidence RSA
handled Mr Ps claim poorly, or caused him un-necessary delays, such that I could
reasonably require RSA to pay him any compensation. Indeed, I note that Mr P has told our
investigator hes no complaint about the time taken to resolve his claim. The disruption Mr P 
reports experiencing seems to be the result of the need to make the claim in the first
place.The complaint
Mr Ps complaint to RSA  to which it issued its final response letter  related only to the
payment of the disturbance allowance. That means I can only look at that issue within the
context of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr P raised other issues with our service  relating to the refitting of the
kitchen, potential issues with the dishwasher and invoices that remained outstanding. Im
afraid that, insofar as any of these issues remain outstanding for Mr P, Im unable to look at
them here because RSA must first be given the opportunity to investigate any complaint he
has about them.
RSA replied to my provisional decision to say it had no further points to make. 
Mr P replied to my provisional decision and reiterated many of the points hed made 
previously. He made the following new points:
He was offered two separate flats  a 3 bedroom one and a two bedroom one. They are 
a family of 5 and dog so it wouldve meant splitting the family in two which is why he 
rejected the accommodation. The accommodation offered was 6 miles away not 3 miles 
away. His policy provided for a similar property. He wouldve accepted suitable 
accommodation and rejected what was offered because it would mean the family 
couldnt live together. There was little alternative but to remain in the house.
They were given little notice about finding AA so the disturbance allowance was part of 
the compromise reached. The alternative was to be homeless.
His broker liaised with RSA about his request to increase his disturbance allowance over 
Christmas. He didnt know how much his broker had actually asked for. He feels his 
broker couldve misinterpreted his request.
The amount of the disturbance allowance was because they would need to eat out.
He was asked to provide credit card statements as proof of expenditure which he did 
although he is unable to find the email he sent to RSA about this. Mr P has provided an 
email which he says proves RSA received his email though. 
His children are all well into their teens which is the equivalent to feeding 5 adults not 2 
adults and 3 children. 
He agreed with RSA at the outset that the arrangement was subject to review should the 
need arise. He asked that their situation be reviewed periodically. He understood this 
meant a change in the amount paid would be discussed beforehand and the opportunity 
given for them to demonstrate their expenditure had not reduced.
The private works he arranged didnt increase the time it took to reinstate the house. He 
has provided evidence that this was the case. Any delays were caused by RSAs 
contractors. 
Despite two rooms being reinstated before Christmas they remained unusable and their 
expenditure hadnt decreased. 
That he didnt understand the relevance of the replacement microwave. It wasnt agreed 
as part of the disturbance allowance but as a result of it failing when the kitchen was 
removed. 
He has shown that the familys costs between 31 December and 26 February remained 
the same and he believes RSA agreed to these costs. 
He doesnt want compensation, only that RSA pay the amount agreed between them. 
The contractors never finished the works in the kitchen.
The complaint has been returned to me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I note Mr Ps comments about the type of AA he was offered, they dont alter what I 
thought provisionally about this aspect of his complaint namely that Im satisfied from the 
evidence Ive seen that RSA/its agent made a reasonable attempt to locate suitable AA for 
Mr P and his family. And I think, in the absence of being able to find anything that Mr P felt to 
be suitable, a reasonable compromise was agreed in the circumstances. Ive seen no 
reference to him being offered two flats - only one. And the only documented reason Ive 
seen for it being declined was that it was too far away from his sons school rather than 
because the family couldnt live together. And its not clear to me why a 3-bedroom flat  
whilst not similar to the family home - wouldnt have been preferable (save for the distance) 
to remaining in the house whilst works were ongoing. So, I cant reasonably accept that the 
only alternative was homelessness. 
I can see that the need for AA was first discussed on 31 August 2018 and agents were 
instructed. From RSAs file, Mr P is noted as also looking for AA at the same time. Neither 
party having been successful, the disturbance allowance was discussed and agreed on 19 
September. I dont find this to be an unreasonable amount of time to try and source suitable 
AA. And I think that the problem with doing so wasnt because of the time frame but the 
duration the AA was required for. 
That the broker may have misrepresented the increase being sought is a matter Mr P needs 
to put to his broker. I note what he says but it hasnt caused me to change my mind about 
the outcome of his complaint. 
I accept that Mr P sent some credit card statements to RSA. Ive found the email to which I 
believe they were attached. The actual statements themselves do not form part of RSAs file 
so Ive not seen the dates of the statements or what they contained. But Im happy to accept 
Mr P evidenced his expenditure to RSA  contrary to what I said in my provisional decision  
but it hasnt altered the outcome of Mr Ps complaint at all. Regardless, RSA agreed to the 
amount of disturbance allowance Mr P asked for in September 2018. 
I appreciate that Mr P thought any change in the arrangement would be discussed 
beforehand. My role though is to decide whether RSA has treated Mr P fairly in the way it 
handled his claim in all the circumstances, and I think it has. The agreement, such as it 
was, was reached informally. RSA kept it under review. Ive seen no evidence that it was 
binding in any way or that it had to continue until a certain point in the repairs. And from the 
evidence Ive seen, the repairs had progressed significantly by the time RSA decided to 
reduce the allowance. I refer to my provisional comments in this respect. Mr P hasnt 
provided any evidence to show that the additional cost of being without a kitchen from 
1 January 2019 onwards exceeded the £350 a week RSA was paying him.
Ive seen no evidence that RSA caused delays in the way this claim was handled. I repeat 
what I said provisionally which is that Mr P told our investigator that he had no issue with the 
time taken to resolve his claim.
I note what Mr P says about the rooms  in his opinion  still being unusable despite being 
reinstated. But I cant reasonably ignore the report on file from RSAs contractor that the 
dining room and lounge were habitable before Christmas. Whilst Ive thought about what 
Mr P has said in this respect it hasnt persuaded me to change my mind from what I said 
provisionally about this aspect of his complaint. I note Mr Ps comment about the microwave. I mentioned it provisionally because from the 
evidence Id seen it formed part of the agreement reached that he would remain in the house 
whilst the repairs were carried out.
As I said provisionally, any complaint Mr P has about any unfinished kitchen works must first 
be referred to RSA. Im unable to look at it here. 
For the reasons Ive given, both here in my final decision as well as provisionally, I cant 
reasonably conclude that RSA has treated Mr P unfairly in the way it handled his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman