DRN-3066623
The complaint
Mr J complains Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly added a 
retrospective exclusion to his policy. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr J took out an income protection policy with LV, through a financial adviser. 
In August that year, LV said Mr Js policy had been selected for a random audit, and asked 
for permission to review his medical records. The records reflected Mr J had consulted a GP 
the day after he took out the policy, due to pain in his wrist. And he was referred for an x-ray. 
LV said, following the review of Mr Js medical records, it had cause to add the following 
exclusion to his policy, from the start. 
We will not pay a claim if it is due to, or arises from disease or disorder of the right 
wrist
Mr J complained to LV. He said he had disclosed information about his history of wrist 
surgery during his application. And said the outcome of his more recent x-ray, was that there 
was nothing wrong with his wrist. LV said it should have been told about the wrist pain Mr J 
had in April 2019. And had it been provided with this information, it would have applied an 
exclusion to the policy in relation to Mr Js wrist. So it thought it had acted correctly in adding 
this retrospectively.
Unhappy with LVs response, Mr J brought his complaint to this service. An investigator here 
looked into what had happened and said she didnt think LV had acted unfairly, and had 
been entitled to add the retrospective exclusion.
LV made no comment on the investigators view. However Mr J disagreed. In summary he 
said he didnt think it was fair for him to be expected to tell LV about his visit to the GP, as he 
didnt know the outcome of the x-ray until after his policy had started. And he said the 
outcome was that there was nothing wrong with his wrist, so he thinks the application of the 
exclusion was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV said Mr J failed to declare his recent wrist pain when he took out his policy via an adviser. 
It said Mr J had visited his GP with wrist pain the day after answering its medical questions, 
and was referred for an x-ray. But LV hadnt been told about this. 
LV provided a copy of the questions it asked and answers provided when Mr J applied for 
his policy. And it sent a copy of this to Mr J, stating that he should check that the information 
was complete and accurate, and to tell LV immediately if it wasnt. 
This showed the following question and answer. 
In the last 5 years, regardless of whether youve seen a doctor, required treatment 
or had time off work, have you had: 
Joint or muscle pain, any type of arthritis, or a condition affecting your bones, joints, 
muscles or limbs? 
And the answer shown as being given by Mr J, was no. 
Mr Js medical records show he saw his GP on 26 April 2019 - the day after answering the 
medical questions in relation to his policy. And the GPs notes reflect Mr J had wrist pain, 
and was referred for an x-ray.
Mr J has explained he had surgery on his wrist many years ago, and disclosed this 
information to his financial adviser. And he said he thought the adviser didnt need to pass 
this information on the LV, as it was outside the five year period it had asked about. I agree 
this is correct. But, Mr Js past wrist surgery isnt the reason LV gave for adding an exclusion 
to the policy. LV has said it did so because Mr J visited his GP about pain in his wrist the day 
after answering its medical questions. And he hadnt declared this pain when asked about 
any join or muscle pain in the past five years, whether a doctor was consulted or not. Nor did 
he tell LV that he
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to conclude that Mr 
J should have declared the pain in his wrist. Ive thought about Mr Js points around not 
knowing the outcome of his x-ray until after the policy started, and this having shown no 
concerns with his wrist. However, I dont think this makes a difference. Having considered 
the question Mr J was asked, and the answer he gave, together with the medical records, 
Im satisfied he needed to provide information about the pain in his wrist. I think the question 
about pain in any joints or muscles in the past five years was clear. And Im satisfied its 
most likely that he was aware of the pain at the time of answering the question, as he 
attended a GP appointment about this, the following day. 
Even if I thought Mr J may have been unaware of the pain in his wrist until after he took out 
the policy, I still think he was required to tell LV about it. I say this because the declaration 
on the policy application summary LV sent to Mr J, stated I will let LV know if anything is 
incorrect or changes before my policy starts. So, as Mr J saw a GP about wrist pain and was referred for an x-ray after taking out the policy on 26 April 2019, but before the policy 
started on 2 May 2019, Im satisfied he was required to tell LV about this change. 
Im persuaded Mr J failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation in 
relation to his wrist pain. So, Ive gone on to consider whether or not this was a qualifying 
misrepresentation, by looking at what difference this made to the policy which was offered.
LV has provided underwriting evidence which shows, had the additional medical information 
about Mr Js wrist pain been declared, it would have still offered him the policy. But, it would 
have done so on different terms. It would have applied an exclusion to any claims relating to 
Mr Js wrist. And because of this, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
LV has treated this as a careless misrepresentation. And in these circumstances, the 
remedy available under CIDRA would be for it to add the relevant exclusion to Mr Js policy 
from the start. And as thats whats happened in this case, Im persuaded LV has acted fairly. 
LV has said it would be willing to consider any up to date medical information Mr J would like 
to provide about his wrist pain. And that based on this, it may review its decision on the 
exclusion going forward. Mr J should contact LV if he would like to explore this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman