DRN-3805337
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) wrongly declined two claims    
Mrs M made for cover to pursue her employer for discrimination arising from disability and 
for personal injury.
Where I refer to Aviva this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Aviva as part of their home 
insurance policy between 24 June 2019 and 23 June 2021.
In around December 2020 Mrs M began legal action against her employer for, amongst 
other things, discrimination arising from disability. In April 2021 she made a claim under her 
LEI policy for the costs of pursuing the employer. Aviva declined the claim. They said her 
claim fell within an exclusion since it related to a dispute or series of events that began 
before the policy started.
Mrs M took legal advice and progressed the claim against her employer. As part of that she 
undertook a medical assessment. Based on the medical report Mrs M received in February 
2022, she made a second claim on her LEI policy for cover to pursue a claim against her 
employer for personal injury relating to her mental health. Aviva declined the claim on 
grounds it fell within an exclusion for illness or injury that develops gradually or is not caused 
by an identifiable incident. Mrs M said the evidence supported the position that her injury had 
been triggered by disability discrimination during an event that had taken place in March 
2020. 
Mrs M complained to Aviva about their decision to decline her claims, but they didnt uphold 
her complaint. So, she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
came to the view Aviva had reasonably declined Mrs Ms claims based on the exclusions. 
Since Mrs M didnt agree, her complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs Ms strength of feeling about her complaint. And I am sorry to hear about 
her health issues and the difficult employment situation shes been dealing with. The parties 
have provided detailed information and submissions in relation to Mrs Ms complaint. I dont 
set out here everything theyve said. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of the service we provide. Ive carefully considered everything the parties 
have told us in coming to my decision. 
Generally, LEI is only available to cover the costs of legal action that might be needed in the 
future. It doesnt provide cover where a potential legal dispute has already arisen. Policies 
often make it a condition of cover that the event happened during the period of cover or 
exclude cover for issues that happened or form part of a series of events that started before 
a customer took the policy out. 
Subject to the terms of the policy being clear, we dont think its unreasonable for insurers to 
include these terms. LEI covers uncertain risks, not inevitable or existing events. But we will 
consider whether a customer could reasonably have thought any pre-existing dispute had 
come to an end and whether the issue theyve claimed for is new. We also expect insurers to 
consider any claims promptly and fairly, and not to decline a claim unreasonably. 
Ill consider Mrs Ms complaint against that background. The starting point is the terms and 
conditions of the LEI policy she and Mr M took out. Broadly, they had cover for reasonable 
legal costs up to £100,000 for events set out in the policy, subject to its terms and 
conditions, including any exclusions. 
Ive noted Mrs Ms point that she bought the LEI anticipating it would cover her for any 
requirement to get legal advice; she was unaware of the restrictions; if she had been aware 
of them, she wouldnt have anticipated theyd remove the insurance cover she believed she 
had. I think the relevant terms of the policy, which Ill refer to below, were clear, fair and not 
misleading as Id expect them to be. Its reasonable to expect Mrs M and Mr M to have 
considered whether the policy provided the cover they required when they bought it. And if 
they had, I think they ought reasonably to have understood its limitations.
Ill consider each of Mrs Ms claims for cover separately:
Mrs Ms claim for cover to pursue her employment claim
The Employment Disputes section of the LEI policy provided cover for, amongst other 
things, a dispute Mrs M had with her employer regarding her employment contract and 
breach of her legal rights under employment law, including claims for disability or illness 
discrimination. 
Aviva relied on the following exclusions in declining the claim:
We will not pay for:
a. Any claim we reasonably believe you knew was likely to happen when you took 
out this insurance, e.g. where you were already in a disciplinary process at work 
before taking out this policy, which led to you making a claim.

d. Claims where the initial dispute or series of incidents leading to a claim on this 
policy happen before this cover starts or after it comes to an end as shown on 
your schedule. You can only make one claim for all disputes arising from the 
same incident.
Aviva initially said Mrs Ms claim was excluded since shed had concerns about how her 
employer had been treating her and the impact on her health since 2013. I think that was 
reasonable based on the information they had. The claim form Mrs M completed in April 
2021 said shed been employed since 2003. Documentation she submitted set out concerns 
shed had about the way shed been treated and the impact on her health from then on. 
Shed said her health had been seriously impacted in 2013. 
Mrs M explained around a year later that shed only been employed by the employer she 
was claiming against since 2017. She said her claim should be covered since, in summary:Her claim only related to her time with her current employer
The tribunal would only rule on incidents occurring in the three months preceding any 
application
She had no knowledge before December 2020 that she would need to go to the 
tribunal; she felt forced to do so by her employers behaviour during the period the 
insurance covered; her claim was triggered by allegedly incompetent investigation 
reports into a grievance she raised in November/December 2020 and an 
unsatisfactory grievance meeting in 2021 
The applications she made to the tribunal fell within the period of cover 
Aviva reviewed their decision. But they still declined the claim on grounds there were events 
from 2017 onwards that had led to the claim and had started before the policy began - so the 
exclusion still applied. 
The information Mrs Ms provided is extensive. Shes described poor treatment by her 
employer, a failure to put in place reasonable adjustments and a decline in her health from 
February 2017 onwards. And she told her employer in November 2018 she was considering 
taking legal action as she felt her concerns werent being taken seriously. 
The list of issues prepared for the employment tribunal sets out claims based on events that 
happened from 2017 - for example: failing to allow flexible working between April and May 
2017; failing to make reasonable adjustments from January 2018; failing to put in place 
safety measures between January 2018 and April 2018 in one location and between April 
2018 and May 2019 in another; and unreasonable treatment in mid-2019.
Whilst the change of manager in August 2019, events after that and the grievance Mrs M 
raised in November/December 2020 may have led her to issue proceedings in the end, the 
events her claim relates to started happening before the policy began. I dont think its 
reasonable for Mrs M to have thought her dispute with her employer had come to an end at 
any point. The issues were still going on when she took the policy out, as the list of issues 
confirms.
On balance, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to believe Mrs M knew a claim was likely to 
happen when she took out the insurance. But even if Im wrong about that, Im satisfied the 
events she relies on in her claim against the employer are part of a series of events that led 
to the claim. 
Although Mrs M may be unable to pursue claims in the tribunal about events that happened 
more than three months before she brought her case, thats irrelevant for the purposes of 
working out whether shes covered under the policy. The events complained about are still 
connected to what happened before the policy began.
Bearing everything in mind, I think the exclusion applies and it was reasonable for Aviva to 
rely on it in declining her claim under the LEI policy. I think they acted fairly in considering 
the claim as well. They let Mrs M know their initial decision, based on what Mrs M had told 
them, within a reasonable period. And they reconsidered, and confirmed their position, within 
a reasonable period when she provided further information in 2022. 
Mrs Ms claim for cover to pursue her personal injury claim
The personal injury cover provided under the LEI policy is for the costs of a claim following 
an incident that causes death or injury.
There is no cover for any claim for an illness or injury which develops gradually or is not 
caused by an identifiable incident e.g. repetitive strain injury.Aviva said this exclusion applied to Mrs Ms claim. Mrs M says a specific event in March 
2020 caused her mental health to deteriorate. 
Mrs Ms own evidence is that her mental health was first severely affected in 2013 due to 
treatment at work; she was still suffering when she joined the employer in February 2017; in 
around November 2018 she told her employer her mental health had been severely 
impacted by such treatment again. 
Mrs M says the medical report prepared in connection with her legal claim dates her mental 
health disability from March 2020. I dont think the report goes that far. 
The report was written following a detailed consideration of earlier medical and occupational 
health reports. It says the employers failure to provide an appropriate work environment 
made a significant and material contribution to Mrs Ms mental state. It notes her 
deterioration following the March 2020 appraisal. 
But the report says there were many factors that led to Mrs Ms condition, including her 
physical health conditions (dating from 1989 and 2013) and remote working. The report 
concluded Mrs Ms mental health couldnt be considered in isolation from her physical health 
issues and Mrs M would still be suffering from poor mental health related to her physical 
health difficulties even if an appropriate work environment had been provided for her. 
The issue of whether her metal health is a disability for legal purposes isnt directly relevant 
to policy cover. The cover is for the costs of pursuing a claim for an incident that causes 
injury. And based on the medical evidence I think Aviva were right to conclude Mrs Ms 
mental health, whilst affected by what happened in March 2020, was an ongoing condition 
caused by several factors and had developed over time. 
So, whilst I have a great deal of sympathy for the difficult health issues Mrs M lives with, I 
dont think Aviva unfairly declined her claim based on the exclusion. 
Mrs M feels Aviva have discriminated against her and, in doing so, have breached the 
Equality Act 2010. Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  
thats a matter for the courts. Our role is to decide whether a business has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. Theres no evidence Aviva have treated Mrs M any differently to other 
customers in coming to their conclusions about policy cover. For the reasons Ive set out Im 
satisfied they fairly considered her claims and that they have treated Mrs M fairly and 
reasonably. 
I understand Mrs M will be disappointed but, bearing everything in mind, I dont think her 
claims are covered under the policy and I dont uphold the complaint she and Mr M have 
made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman