DRN-3233823
The complaint
Ms F would like HSBC UK Bank Plc to reimburse the money she lost when she fell victim to 
a purchase scam.
What happened
Ms F wanted to buy a wooden barrel sauna as a gift for her husband. She found a Latvian 
company that could supply the sauna on social media. The company told her that the item 
was made to order and that she needed to pay a 50% deposit of €1,500 when placing the 
order and a further €1,500 upon delivery. Ms F thought she was dealing with a genuine 
company. Shed received an invoice for the purchase that looked legitimate and she had 
researched the companys data on the Latvian commercial register. Unfortunately, Ms F was 
really dealing with a fraudster that had cloned the real firm.
On 7 May 2021, Ms F telephoned HSBC and spoke to one of the banks advisors for around 
90 minutes. During the call, she made a cash advance by transferring money from her credit 
card into her current account. She then sent €1,500 from her current account to the account 
details given to her by the fraudster. 
During the conversation Ms F had with the banks advisor, he expresses concern about why 
Ms F was unable to pay the company directly using her credit card. He tells her that the way 
she is making the payment is expensive. He explains that paying by card offers more 
protection. He feels that Ms F is placing a lot of trust in the company by paying so much up 
front and suggests that she undertakes further research first. He is increasingly concerned 
when the bank details Ms F provided dont work. But Ms F reassures him that the company 
was recommended to her by friends. 
When Ms F didnt receive the sauna, she realised shed been scammed. She explained that 
she posted on social media and received replies from other people that had also been 
tricked. She reported the matter to the Police and Action Fraud. 
Ms F also contacted HSBC to see if there was anything it could do to help. On 8 June 2021, 
HSBC sent a message to the bank where Ms F had sent the money to see if any funds could 
be retrieved. The beneficiary bank replied on 17 June 2021 and confirmed no money 
remained. 
Ms F made a complaint. She said this is a case of confirmed fraud and felt the bank should 
be more supportive and refund the money thats been lost. 
On 28 June 2021, HSBC issued its final response. It did not uphold Ms Fs complaint. It said 
that its advisor had given her sufficient warnings about the risks before she made the 
payment. 
Ms F remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. Our Investigator looked into things but 
didnt uphold the complaint. She listened to a recording of the call that Ms F had with the 
bank. She was satisfied that Ms F still wanted to go ahead with the payment despite 
appropriate warnings and questioning from HSBC. She didnt think the bank had made a 
mistake by making the payment in the circumstances that it did and she felt it had done all it 
could to try and recover the money once it was aware of the fraud.
Ms F was disappointed with the Investigators outcome. She said this was a confirmed fraud 
and the bank should pay from its insurance. She explained that having to repay the 
outstanding balance on her credit card was causing her financial hardship. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms F. But having thought very carefully about 
HSBCs actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably by making the payment. I also think it 
took appropriate steps to try and recover funds from the beneficiary bank. I dont think HSBC 
needs to reimburse Ms F with the money she lost or pay her any compensation. I know this 
is going to be very disappointing for Ms F, so I will explain why. 
Theres no doubt that Ms F has been the victim of a scam. But that alone doesnt mean she 
must be reimbursed by the bank. In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make.
When Ms F made the payment, she sent the money in good faith and didnt know she was 
dealing with a fraudster. But it was still an authorised payment. Although Ms F did not intend 
for the money to go to a fraudster, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Ms F when she unwittingly made the payment to a fraudster or whether it should have done 
more than it did. Ive listened to the call recording of the conversation Ms F had with the banks advisor before 
sending the money. The call is around 90 minutes long and Ms F and the banks advisor 
cover a lot of ground during this time. 
The banks advisor initially had concerns because Ms F was doing a cash advance to be 
able to fund the transfer. Around 14 minutes into the conversation he explained the high 
costs of making a payment in this way and asked Ms F why she was not able to make a card 
payment. Ms F told him what she was buying and that she had been told by the company to 
pay in this way. The banks advisor asked Ms F if she felt confident in the company and 
pointed out that he thought it was strange they were asking her to pay using an international 
payment. Ms F explained that she had never used the company herself before, but she 
trusted them and had seen favourable things about them on social media. Ms F has 
provided evidence to both this service and the bank to show the research she made into the 
company when planning the purchase. 
Its clear that HSBCs advisor identified characteristics about the payment Ms F wanted to 
make which stood out as unusual. I agree it was appropriate for the bank to intervene and 
ask more questions about what Ms F wanted to do to make sure she wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. 
Later in the call, after moving the funds over from the credit card account and trying in vain 
to set up Ms Fs mobile banking app, Ms F decides that she wants to make the payment 
there and then over the phone and not from the app. She gave the advisor the international 
bank account number that she had been provided with. The advisor tried to process the 
payment, but it would not go through because the account number could not be located. The 
advisor suggested going back to the company to confirm the details.   
Ms F sent a text to who she thought was the sauna company whilst on the phone to the 
bank. She explained that the bank details were incorrect. Ms F got a response to say that 
different account details would be sent. Ms F asked the banks advisor if he was okay to wait 
on the line for a couple more minutes for new bank details to arrive. 
Whilst they were waiting, the banks advisor began a conversation with Ms F. The words in 
bold were spoken with emphasis. 
HSBC: Im going to be honest with you, erm, my opinion on this Ms F, Im not really too 
confident with, erm, the beneficiary youre sending it to, it just seems a bit, unofficial.
Ms F: Really?
HSBC: Yeah. I mean, caus [sic] when I think about the way that hes asking you to make 
payment, its just such an unnecessarily difficult way to do it for a business, from a business 
standpoint, like why, a Visa Card payment would be in his account immediately, erm, do you 
understand what Im saying?
Ms F: Yeah.
HSBC: Or any kind of card payment, if he was to take a payment by card, it just seems a 
little bit, erm, strange, that this is the only way that they can take payment
The banks advisor pauses and there is three seconds of silence on the line. The banks 
advisor then continues:
HSBC: So Id maybe say to him like why is this the only way that you can take payment, Id 
maybe question that a little bit you know. Ms F: I dont know, because, err so what err, what erm, I mean, because err the cost of this 
sauna is 3,000 erm so you have to pay 1,500 in advance and then 1,500 when you receive 
your sauna so erm yes and I did ask if I can pay like online but they say no it has to be a 
bank transfer 
HSBC: Oh, wait wait a minute, thats very dodgy Ms F, Im sorry to use such a slang term as 
dodgy but erm so you think about it, erm if you pay a deposit of say £1,500 
Ms F interrupts- yeah, its like a deposit, yeah
HSBC: £1,500 youre paying the first half of it and the rest of it on completion. Erm, £1,500 
to secure the amount because youre giving that person that amount in good faith, erm, that 
£1,500. In order to secure that amount the safest way to conduct that transaction is with a 
card, either a debit or a credit card because it means that you have dispute rights against 
that transaction if you understand what Im saying, so for example if the merchant does not 
deliver on the goods that theyve promised you can come to us and we can dispute the 
transaction for you, but if you do this type of transaction we cant do that, theres not a whole 
lot that we can do for you to be honest Ms F.
Ms F: Um hmm
HSBC: And so thats why it just seems a little bit to me like you know, maybe you should do 
a bit more research and potentially
Ms F begins to speak before the advisor had finished. 
Ms F: I mean, I see it, I mean, it was recommended by friends, its not like someone...
Then the advisor interjects.   
HSBC: By friends? Right okay. Right. So you know people that have transacted with them 
and they have actually received the goods? Okay, okay, okay. 
Ms F and the advisor then talk over each other. 
  
Ms F: Yeah, yeah, I havent used this company before but they was [sic] recommended by 
friends that are a good company [sic]
HSBC: Right, okay, okay, I mean, to be fair, if theyve been recommended by friends and 
those friends know that theyve received the goods 
Ms F interrupts to say: He just sent to me another bank account and then hes saying if it 
didnt go through then tomorrow the bookkeeper will be, erm you know, there, and she can 
help so thats someone who is actually dealing with finance. Shall I just give you the other 
one and we try the other one?
The call continues with the new payment details and the payment is made successfully. 
Having thought very carefully about everything Ive heard, its clear that aspects of the 
situation as Ms F was describing it did give the bank cause for concern. HSBCs suspicions 
increased when the first set of bank details Ms F provided were unsuccessful. I think it was 
right for the bank to go on to ask further questions about the wider circumstances of the 
payment she wanted to make given that there were indicators she may have been at risk 
from financial harm from fraud. But I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably by ultimately going on to make the payment that 
Ms F had requested. 
Whilst the bank was concerned enough to probe and question the payment at two different 
points during the call, Ms Fs response and her tone of voice when she explained that the 
company had been recommended by friends provided reassurance. She spoke confidently. 
Ive noted that Ms F doesnt actually say whether her friends received any goods from this 
particular supplier. Ms F has told us that she asked her friends about buying online and that 
her friends had bought high value items from abroad successfully. During the call, she does 
make it clear that shes not used the supplier before. 
Ive thought about whether it would have made a difference to the situation if the bank had 
continued to probe things even further. This is a finely balanced situation. But, looking at 
everything in the round as the parties understood it to be at that time, Ive not seen enough 
to say that HSBC shouldnt have put the payment through. The bank has very clearly 
informed Ms F of its concerns about the situation. The banks advisor told her that he 
thought it was very dodgy. It has strongly advised her to do more research. Ms F 
understood what the bank was saying but still decided that she wanted to go ahead. 
Ms Fs response gave the bank the impression that her friends had used the same supplier 
successfully, which added plausibility to the situation. Her own confidence in the legitimacy 
of the transaction is clear to hear. She wanted to proceed to make the payment using the 
new account details. She was not hesitant or in any way unsure about it. Im also mindful 
that Ms F had undertaken her own checks into the company and had not identified any 
concerns, and that she wanted the order to arrive in time for a special occasion. All of these 
factors were contributing to her decision making at that time. I am not persuaded that Ms F 
would have decided not to go ahead and make the payment even if HSBC had gone further 
than it did. 
From what I have heard, I consider HSBC took appropriate and proportionate action to 
challenge a situation it identified as unusual. I think it did enough in these circumstances to 
highlight the risks involved in the transaction Ms F wanted to make. It was not unreasonable 
for the bank to have been reassured by what Ms F said about the company being 
recommended by friends. 
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms F and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. She sent her money in good faith and 
did not receive anything in return for it. But overall, while I appreciate Ms F has been the 
unfortunate victim of a scam, I think HSBCs decision not to refund her in this instance was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because it followed her instructions to 
make the payment and I dont think it was unreasonable for it to have done this at the time. 
And unfortunately, as no funds remained, it wasnt able to recover the funds or do anything 
to help Ms F further.
Ms F has told us that shes now struggling to pay the interest due on her credit card. I would 
encourage her to talk to HSBC if she hasnt already done so to see how they can help. 
HSBC should be positive and sympathetic to support Ms F to get back on top of her 
finances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman