DRN-3029509
The complaint
Mr L says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr L took out two instalment loans from ELL. A summary of his borrowing follows.
loan taken repaidvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, 
£total 
repayable, £
1 30/11/2018 22/07/2019 1,500 18 178.75 3217.50
2 22/07/2019 - 5,200 36 327.49 11,789.64
Mr L says the amount of interest was too large, he had other loans already and has 
struggled to make the repayments. 
Our adjudicator concluded ELL should not have given Mr L either loan as it had
information to suggest it was unlikely the loans would be sustainably affordable for Mr L.
ELL didnt respond to this assessment. So the complaint has now been passed to me to 
make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr L required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr L. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr L. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ls loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make fair lending decisions?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr L to understand his disposable income
before it approved the loans. It asked for his monthly income and checked this using Mr Ls 
recent bank statements. It made assumptions about his living costs using national statistics 
and adding a buffer. For both applications it checked Mr Ls credit file to understand
his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked about the purpose of the 
loans  loan 1 was for seasonal expenses and home improvements, loan 2 was for debt 
consolidation. From these checks combined ELL concluded that Mr L had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the loans. It concluded he would have £164.12 a month 
remaining after adding loan 1 to his monthly costs and £304.70 for loan 2, after consolidating 
some of his other debts  including loan 1.
I think the checks were proportionate for loan 1 but I am not wholly persuaded the checks 
were proportionate for loan 2. I say this given the term of the loan - so ELL was looking to 
assure itself Mr L would be able to make the repayments sustainably for three years - and 
given the fact that he was needing to refinance loan 1. I think it would have wanted to 
understand his actual living costs and not rely on national averages. However, I wont 
comment further on this as even based on the information it had I dont think ELL made a fair 
lending decision for either loan. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
From the credit checks it carried out ELL knew Mr L already had monthly credit
commitments of £1303.84. And it recorded that Mr L was consolidating none of this on its 
disposable income calculation document, so it didnt give the loan to Mr L on the
basis that he was clearing any of his other debts with it. This means that his monthly credit
commitments would be increasing to £1482.59. His income at the time was £2051.71. 
So he would be committing a very significant percentage of his income to service his debts. 
In these circumstances I think ELL ought to have realised there was a high risk that further 
increasing his debt meant it was unlikely the new loan repayments would be sustainable for 
Mr L over 18 months. And to meet its obligations this was what it needed to check, not just the pounds and pence affordability. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might 
be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't 
automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define
sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing
problem indebtedness. I think ELL ought reasonably to have realised that by taking its loan, 
Mr L would be increasing the proportion of his monthly income he was spending on credit to 
potentially unsustainable levels.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr L.
Loan 2
My findings are similar for Mr Ls second loan. From the credit checks it carried out ELL
knew Mr L already had monthly credit commitments of £1593.36. There is however
evidence that this time he was borrowing to repay other debts. ELL has evidenced that
Mr L was repaying debt that would reduce his monthly credit commitments by £577.95. 
Taking this into account, giving Mr L loan 2 meant ELL was reducing Mr Ls monthly credit 
commitments to £1015.51. But this is still a significant percentage of his income, which was 
£2093.60. Again I think this ought to have concerned ELL. Whilst it might have been 
reducing Mr Ls outgoings on a monthly basis, giving loan 2 increased his overall 
indebtedness and most likely prolonged the time he would be servicing high-cost debt. 
And as Ive said, to meet its obligations ELL needed to check not just the pounds and pence 
affordability but also that Mr L would not suffer adverse financial consequences from getting 
the loan. Mr L was also using some of loan 2 to clear credit card debts. And I think its 
reasonable to assume this debt was likely on a lower or comparable interest rate - yet taking 
the loan was increasing his overall indebtedness by fifty percent. 
So in the round I dont think ELL can reasonably argue that giving loan 2 to Mr L wasnt most 
likely to have some kind of adverse impact on his financial situation. It follows I think ELL 
was also wrong to give loan 2 to Mr L.
I havent found any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr L says the interest charges were large. I accept the interest rates were high, but Mr L had 
to actively engage in the application process, so I think its likely that he was aware of what 
he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go 
treated Mr L unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. But in any 
event, the interest and charges will be refunded as Ive concluded these loans shouldnt 
have been given. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the capital that he borrowed because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of being given loans 1 
and 2. Deduct the repayments he made from this amount.
If reworking Mr Ls loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpaymentswould have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ls loan accounts results in there being a capital balance
outstanding on loan 2, then ELL should work with Mr L to agree a suitable payment
plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr L a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ls complaint and Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman