DRN-2114764
The complaint
Ms D complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading as LV and the 
way they handled three claims she made on her policy. Shes unhappy with the impact this 
had on her premium price and her insurance history.
What happened
In August 2018, Ms L renewed her motor insurance policy with LV, who shed been a 
customer of for several years. 
In September 2018, Ms D made three claims on her insurance policy. Two of the claims 
were for the work needed to repair damage caused by incidents when her car was parked. 
So, there wasnt a third party for LV to reclaim the costs from. And the other claim related to 
an accident where both Ms D and the third party disputed who was liable. This claim was 
eventually settled on a 50:50 basis, meaning LV had to pay for half of the repair costs.
LV processed all three claims, and Ms Ds car was repaired. She made two additional 
payments during that time as her premium increased. Ms D complained about this at the 
time, and LV responded. But Ms D didnt contact us within the six-month time period that 
was required, so this complaint isnt included as part of this decision.
In August 2019, Ms D received her renewal documents. And she was unhappy that her 
premium had increased so much. So, she took out a policy with another insurer, who Ill refer 
to as S. But Ms D didnt inform S that shed had three fault claims, as she didnt think she 
was at fault. Because of this, they cancelled her insurance when they found LV had reported 
the three claims as fault claims on the insurance database. So, Ms contacted LV to 
complain.
Ms D complained about LVs decision to note all three claims as fault claims and the 
increase this had on her premium. She didnt think this was fair as she didnt think any of the 
claims were her fault. And she didnt think LV had explained to her the consequences of this. 
So, shed ended up in a situation where she had a cancellation marker on her insurance 
history. She also complained about the manner she was spoken to by a claims handler and 
that LV had decided to take court action without making her or the third party aware.
LV didnt agree. They thought theyd make it clear to Ms D that the claims had been 
recorded as fault because they were unable to reclaim the costs from a third party. And they 
thought Ms D was made aware these claims would need to be reported to a new insurer. So, 
they didnt think they were responsible for S cancelling her new policy. They also thought 
theyd acted in line with the policy when considering court action and explained the claim 
didnt go to court is it was settled on a 50:50 basis. And finally, they thought their handler 
had handled the call with Ms D professionally. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Ms D remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt think LV had done 
anything wrong by noted the claims as fault. He explained this is because LV had to pay out 
the claims and werent able to recover the full costs. He acknowledged Ms D had been 
confused by this, but he thought LV had explained this fairly and clearly. So, he didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong when increasing Ms Ds premium and noting the claims on the 
insurance database. And because of this, he didnt think they should be held responsible for 
the difficulties then faced with her new insurer.
He also thought LV acted fairly when considering court action, as they were entitled to do so 
within the terms of the policy. And he noted this action wasnt required as the claim was 
settled out of court. And finally, he explained he listened to the call Ms D complained about 
and thought LV had acted professionally. Because of this, he didnt think LV needed to do 
anything more.
Ms D didnt agree. She didnt think it was fair that she was listed at fault for the claims where 
her car had been parked. And she maintained it wasnt fair for her insurance history to be 
impacted by this. She thought shed taken reasonable steps to repair her car without 
needing to contact LV and thought she was being treated unfairly because of this. As Ms D 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this situation has had on Ms D. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been upsetting and worrying for Ms D to have her insurance with S cancelled. Even more so 
when she realised the implications this would have on her securing future insurance. And as 
that policy was cancelled due to the information LV reported, I can understand why shed 
hold LV accountable. But, for me to say LV have done something wrong, Id need to see 
they made an error when marking her claims as fault. Or, that they failed to make her aware 
what impact this would have if she decided to seek a new insurer. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Ms D made three claims on her insurance policy with LV. Ms D has 
admitted she initially attempted to repair her car without the need to claim on her insurance. 
But unfortunately, these efforts were unsuccessful. And I think this shows Ms D had some 
awareness that claiming on her insurance would have some impact to her.
Ive seen that two of the claims arose from incidents where Ms Ds car was parked, and she 
wasnt in the car at the time. So, I can understand why Ms D is unhappy that the claims were 
classified as fault claims as most of the damage occurred through no fault of her own. But I 
think its this understanding thats led to Ms Ds confusion. A fault claim doesnt mean the 
damage resulted from something Ms D did wrong. It means LV were unable to recoup the 
costs of the repairs from the third party. So, they had to pay the cost of the repairs 
themselves. For both claims, Ms D was unable to identify the third party who caused the 
damage. So, LV paid for the repairs. And in this situation, its standard industry practice to 
mark claims such as this as fault claims. So, I cant say LV did anything wrong.
And for the third claim, there was a dispute between Ms D and the third party over who was 
liable. Ms D felt she was reversed into. And the third party thought the same. Because both 
parties provided a differing version of events, and there was no other evidence other than the testimonies, LV agreed to settle the claim with the third-party insurer on a 50:50 basis. 
And as this meant LV needed to pay for part of the repair costs, the claim was noted as a 
fault claim. Again, this is standard industry practice so I cant say LV have done something 
wrong by taking this action.
Ive seen Ms Ds renewal premium the following year was much higher than she expected. 
And shes explained this is because she had protected no claims discount at the time. But 
there are many reasons on why a premium can be increased. A premium is designed to 
reflect the level of risk an insurer is taking when providing insurance to a customer. So, even 
though Ms D had a protected no claims discount, the fact she had three fault claims noted 
against her policy in the previous year is likely to have impacted the cost of the renewal. And 
as I think LV acted fairly when they recorded the claims in this way, I cant say their decision 
to increase the premium was unfair. 
Ms D was unhappy with the cost of the renewal, so decided to take out another insurance 
policy with insurer S instead. I understand Ms D had this insurance cancelled as she didnt 
disclose the fault claims when taking out the new policy. And she holds LV responsible for 
this. But I dont agree. Ive listened to the calls Ms D held with LV when she discussed the 
premium increase, before she took out a policy with S. On these calls, I think LV made it 
reasonably clear that Ms D had three fault claims noted on her policy. And Ive seen these 
claims were also detailed on her renewal documents under the heading claims or accidents 
in the last 5 years. So, I wouldve expected Ms D to understand the need to disclose these if 
she was asked to by S. And because of this, I cant say LV were responsible for what 
information Ms D provided to S, and the resulting cancellation. 
Ive also considered the way in which LV spoke to Ms D on these calls. And having done so, 
I think LV were professional in both. On the first call, the handler referred to Ms Ds claims as 
accidents. And I can understand why this concerned Ms D, as she wasnt involved in 
accidents for two of the claims as she wasnt in the car the time. But I dont think this shows 
LV acted unfairly towards Ms D. During the same call, the handler attempted to explain why 
the claims were deemed to be fault claims. And on the second call, this was explained in 
more detail. On both calls, the information LV provided was accurate and delivered in a tone 
that I think was both fair and reasonable. So, I cant say LV did anything wrong.
And finally, Ive considered Ms Ds concerns about LVs decision to take court action without 
making her or the third party aware. The terms of Ms Ds policy explains LV were entitled to 
have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim; and take proceedings, in your 
name or in the name of any other person claiming under this insurance, at our own expense 
and for our own benefit to recover any payment we have made. So, I think LV acted within 
the terms of the policy when deciding to take court action. And I dont think they needed to 
make Ms D aware of this before they chose to proceed. And LV were communicating with 
the third partys insurer at the time, so I wouldnt have expected them to contact the third 
party directly to make them aware. Even so, this action was never progressed any further as 
the claim was settled on a 50:50 basis without the need for the courts to be involved. So, 
while I can understand Ms Ds initial concern about the escalation of her claim, I dont think 
this was because of anything LV did wrong. And because of this, I dont think they need to 
do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms D was hoping for. And I appreciate Ms D remains to 
be impacted by Ss decision to cancel her insurance policy. But, as Ive explained above, I 
dont think this decision resulted from anything LV did wrong. And I dont think there were 
any failures in the service provided by LV when handling Ms Ds claims as part of her policy. 
So, I dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited trading as LV.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman