DRN-2747055
The complaint
Mr L complains EUI Limited trading as Admiral (Admiral) charged him an unfair and 
disproportionate cancellation charge when he cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr L took out an annual motor insurance policy with Admiral, which he 
bought online. In December 2020 Mr L asked Admiral to cancel his policy. Admiral did so 
and charged Mr L a £55 cancellation charge. Mr L complained to Admiral, as he didnt think 
the cancellation had caused Admiral £55 in actual administration costs.  
In response, Admiral explained the cancellation charge was to cover its unexpected 
administration costs caused by a policy ending sooner than agreed. Admiral said it told Mr L 
about this £55 cancellation charge when he set up and accepted the policy online, and that it 
was also set out in the Your Agreement with EUI Limited document. Admiral said it hadnt 
made any errors and so wouldnt refund the charge. And it wouldnt give Mr L a breakdown 
of the charge, as hed asked, since that was commercially sensitive information. Admiral 
asked Mr L to contact it about the unpaid £55 cancellation charge and a further £3.57 in 
unpaid premiums.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He said the £55 charge was unfair and more like a 
penalty because it was the same set amount for everyone regardless of how much their 
policy cost, and because it would have been £30 less if hed cancelled within the policys 
fourteen day cooling off period. Mr L said the £55 charge didnt reflect Admirals actual costs 
and Admiral should be transparent and provide a breakdown of what the £55 consisted of.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said Mr L didnt dispute the £55 charge 
was part of the policy terms and conditions and that Admiral had acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions when applying the charge. 
Mr L disagreed. He said that just because a policy term exists didnt mean it was a fair term. 
And that our investigator hadnt considered whether the amount of £55 was fair for the actual 
administration work involved.  
As Mr L disagreed with our investigator, his complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has told our service he accepts the £55 cancellation charge is set out in the policy 
terms and conditions he would have agreed to when he bought the policy. For clarity, the 
Your Agreement with EUI Limited document says If you cancel your policy after the 14 day 
cooling off period, but before the end of its term, EUI Limited will make an intermediary 
charge to cover the costs of setting up your policy and arranging for it to be cancelled. And 
goes on to say the charge for a vehicle is £55. 
Given this, its fair to say Admiral made this charge clear when Mr L took out the policy and 
that the policy terms entitle Admiral to apply this charge in this case. And Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Admiral has treated Mr L differently than it would treat other customers 
in a similar position. 
Regardless, it seems to me that Mr Ls main complaint point here is that the amount of £55 
is unfair since Admirals actual cancellation administration costs are likely to be less than 
that. Mr L says its more like a penalty than a charge to cover administration costs, because 
the charge is the same for everyone instead of being proportionate to the cost of the policy, 
and because the charge is lower during the fourteen day cooling off period.
But I dont agree this means the charge is unfair. I say that because Admiral would be 
carrying out the same cancellation tasks regardless of the cost of the policy. And its 
cancellation costs are likely to be higher once the fourteen day cooling off period has 
passed, since the policy would then be fully up and running and there would likely be more 
administration work involved in cancelling it.  
I understand Mr L believes £55 is more than the actual cost to Admiral. But Admiral says it 
wont provide Mr L with a breakdown of the £55 because this is commercially sensitive 
information. I accept a breakdown of this charge would be commercially sensitive 
information, so I dont think Admiral needs to provide it as Mr L has suggested. But in any 
case, I dont think £55 is a disproportionate charge. I say that because in this case Admiral 
has needed to carry out cancellation administration work  it cancelled the policy, calculated 
what Mr L had paid in premiums for the time his policy was in effect, and communicated with 
Mr L about that. And the £55 Admiral has charged is in line with typical motor insurance 
policy cancellation charges across the insurance industry. 
So while I appreciate Mr L is likely to be disappointed by my decision, Im satisfied Admiral 
fairly and correctly applied a cancellation charge and that it isnt a disproportionate charge. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman