DRN-2704443
The complaint
Miss M has said Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) let to her irresponsibly. Miss M said 
he was accepted for two personal loans, when Everyday should have known these werent 
affordable for her.
What happened
In September 2018 Everyday lent £3,100 to Miss M. This loan agreement was for a period of 
24 months  with Miss M due to repay £5,250 by the end of the term. Miss M has explained 
that when she applied and took this lending, the aim was to consolidate a number of payday 
loans she had outstanding. 
Six months later Everyday lent to Miss M again. Everyday lent Miss M £5,000  repayable 
over 60 months. By the end of the payment term, Miss M was due to repay £18,252.60. This 
lending cleared the previous loan provided in September 2018. And Miss M said the 
remainder of the loan was to help consolidate existing borrowing  some of this being 
payday loans she had intended to pay off with the first loan, but had explained she hadnt 
been able to do so.
Miss M feels Everyday did the wrong thing by lending to her on both occasions. She has 
explained that given the amount of credit she already had in place when applying for the 
loans with Everyday, it should have known that she was in financial difficulties. And, it should 
have known the borrowing would have been unaffordable for her.
Because Miss M was unhappy with this, she raised a complaint with Everyday. Everyday 
responded and said it was satisfied it had carried out a number of checks before it agreed to 
provide Miss M with both loans. And it explained it had carried out these checks to make 
sure the loans were affordable, and the repayments would be sustainable for Miss M. It 
noted the checks included credit file, affordability, employment and identity checks. And 
based on those checks it was satisfied that the loans were affordable.
Miss M was dissatisfied with Everydays response. So, she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In respect of 
the loan provided in September 2018, our investigator said he was satisfied Everyday had 
carried out proportionate checks to see whether the loan would be affordable and 
sustainable for Miss M. And, he didnt think the information provided suggested that 
Everyday had made an incorrect decision that the loan was affordable and sustainable.
In respect of the second loan, our investigator noted that he found the checks Everyday 
completed on this loan to also be proportionate. And, he noted that having looked at the 
income and expenditure information provided, the loan was also sustainable. 
Miss M didnt agree. She still felt Everyday shouldnt have lent to her. Miss M noted she was 
in a cycle of debt  and that the loans given to her by Everyday made everything worse. In 
respect of the second loan, Miss M also noted that whilst Everyday had suggested two 
payday loans had been settled when she applied for the lending with it, this wasnt the case, 
and she was still paying this off. So, these should have been taken into account when 
decisions were made about whether the lending was affordable.
Because Miss M didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional decision on this complaint, detailing my thoughts. In this I said;
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint in part.  
Its important to highlight that when coming to my decision Ive taken into account the 
relevant law, rules and guidance in relation to concerns about irresponsible lending. And, 
having considered these, and the circumstances of Miss Ms complaint, I dont think 
Everyday lent to Miss M responsibly, in respect of the loan provided in March 2019.
When considering Miss Ms complaint, Ive needed to consider the below key issues;
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks, to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to make repayments on the loans in a sustainable way?
If Everyday did complete the above  was a fair decision made, in respect of whether 
to lend to Miss M?
If Everyday didnt complete the above, would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown Miss M would have been able to make repayments in a sustainable 
way?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M in any other way?
Ive done this in relation to both the loans provided to Miss M and have addressed these 
separately below.
September 2018 loan
At the point Everyday provided this loan to Miss M, it was required to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Miss M could afford to make the loan repayments in a sustainable 
way. And, when carrying out checks to make sure this was the case, the checks had to be 
borrower focused. So, this means Everyday had to considering the impact the lending 
would have on Miss M  not just how likely it was that Everyday would receive its money 
back by the end of the term.
As above, Everyday also had to make sure the checks completed were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan. Whether a check is proportionate will depend on the 
circumstances of the loan being applied for. So, checks could include a number of things, 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
So, Ive considered this in relation to the loan agreed in September 2018. To do this, Ive 
looked at what checks Everyday completed, and what information it gathered at the time of 
lending, to see whether the checks it made were proportionate enough for Everyday to be 
confident the lending would be sustainable for Miss M.And having done so, Im satisfied Everyday did make proportionate checks, before agreeing 
to lend to Miss M in this instance.
I can see that for this first loan Everyday considered Miss Ms income and expenditure, and 
worked out what disposable income she should have at the end of each month, taking into 
account the monthly repayment Miss M would need to pay for the loan she was applying for 
too. 
Everyday checked what Miss Ms income was  and this was verified by a payslip Miss M 
provided, showing her income over the previous six months. And, Everyday was able to see 
the wage of £3,205.65 entering Miss Ms bank account, because it had a bank statement 
showing this.
In terms of expenditure  Everyday looked into Miss Ms expenditure. It established the cost 
of Miss Ms rent each month and took into account the possibility Miss M may need up to 
£880 every month for other essential living expenses  such as utility bills and travel. 
As Miss M had a number of credit commitments at the time she applied for this loan in 
September 2018, Everyday also did an audit of those credit agreements. It had been told by 
Miss M that she would be paying off loans with nine payday lenders she had borrowing with, 
and Everyday reviewed information from each of these lenders, evidencing what it would 
cost to settle these loans. And once Miss M consolidated these with the loan she was 
applying for, Everyday worked out how much Miss Ms remaining credit commitments would 
be each month  including the monthly payment she would need to make for this loan. It 
established Miss M would have just over £400 disposable income after this.
Given the amount Miss M was asking to borrow, the term of the loan, and the level of checks 
Everyday completed, I do think it acted proportionately, and in a borrower focused way when 
checking that this loan would be sustainable for Miss M. And, I think that given the 
information Everyday had looked at and checked when considering whether to lend, it made 
a fair decision to accept the application Miss M had made  in an attempt to consolidate 
some debts, she had. So, I dont think Everyday did anything wrong in this respect.
March 2019 loan
However, as noted above, I think Everyday acted irresponsibly by agreeing to lend to Miss M 
in March 2019.
Ive thought about whether Everyday completed proportionate, borrower focused checks and 
at the point Miss M was applying for this loan. As with the previous loan, Everyday did check 
Miss Ms income  again with this being verified with a payslip, and a bank statement which 
showed the funds entering her account. 
In terms of expenditure  Everyday did look at Miss Ms expenditure on this occasion too. It 
again took into account Miss Ms rent of £846 and allowed £880 for living expenses.
Everyday also went through Miss Ms credit commitments at the time she applied for this 
loan. It noted Miss M was aiming to pay off a number of further payday loans. And it worked 
out what disposable income Miss M would have after paying these off. It reviewed bank 
statements for a bank account of Miss Ms, which appeared to be her main account, with her 
salary going into it  and gained evidence of how much it would take to settle the payday 
loans Miss M was looking to consolidate.Based on these checks, which included a generous allowance for living expenses (excluding 
rent), the amount of lending being asked for, and the term of the loan, I do think Everyday 
completed proportionate checks into whether the borrowing would be sustainable for Miss M.
Having said that, I also need to think about whether a fair decision was made to lend to Miss 
M. And based on the information Ive seen so far, I dont think a fair decision was made. I 
say this because whilst the checks Everyday completed were proportionate, I think the 
information gathered should have raised concerns to Everyday, about whether it was 
responsible to lend to Miss M. 
The lending code 2006, details that responsible lenders must make sure all loan applications 
go through a sound and proper credit assessment. And it details some things that would 
suggest a high risk of a consumer experiencing financial difficulty, and that may be taken 
into account when lending is being considered.  
This list includes a consumer having four or more credit commitments already in place, and 
a consumer spending more than 25% of their gross income on consumer credit. 
Miss M had returned to Everyday six months after applying and successfully gaining a loan 
from it  for debt consolidation of payday loans. And on this occasion, Miss M was returning 
and asking for a loan  for a higher amount, over a longer term  to consolidate debt again. 
The audit Everyday completed in relation to Miss Ms credit commitments, showed she had a 
large amount of current credit commitments in place  and that out of the current 19 credit 
commitments in place (excluding utilities), Miss M was only looking to consolidate four with 
this loan.
And, looking at the payslip Miss M provided Everyday with, as well her expenditure in the 
three months prior to this loan, I can see Miss M was spending over 25% of her gross 
income in some months, on credit.  
I think this, alongside the fact Miss M still had payday lending in place with lenders she had 
noted she would be paying off with the loan in September 2018, should have highlighted to 
Everyday that Miss M was financially vulnerable, and that lending further funds would not be 
helpful to Miss M, or improve her situation.
Given that I think Everyday lent to Miss M irresponsibly in March 2019, Im satisfied 
Everyday needs to take action to put this right. Miss M has had the benefit of the funds she 
was provided with when taking this loan. So, I dont intend on requiring Everyday to write the 
capital off of this loan. But, I think Everyday should refund all of the interest and charges 
Miss M has paid on the March 2019 loan.
Whilst I do think its fair that Miss Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial 
history, I dont think its fair she should be disadvantaged by Everydays decision to lend to 
her irresponsibly. So, I think Everyday should remove any negative information recorded on 
Miss Ms credit file in relation to the March 2019 loan. 
Miss M responded to my provisional decision, and confirmed she agreed with it. She 
reiterated that when she applied for the March 2019 loan, she had a large amount of other 
financial commitments. And, that not having paid off loans she said she previously would, 
should have raised concerns for Everyday, when thinking about whether it should lend to 
her.
Everyday didnt respond to my provisional decision, and so didnt provide any further 
evidence or comments in respect of the complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, my decision on this 
complaint does remain the same. 
Miss M agrees with my provisional decision. And Everyday hasnt provided me with any 
further evidence or comments to review. Given this, and the information already considered 
from both parties, my decision remains the same as noted in my provisional decision above, 
and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Given that I think Everyday lent to Miss M irresponsibly in March 2019, Im still satisfied 
Everyday needs to take action to put this right. Miss M has had the benefit of the funds she 
was provided with when taking this loan. So, I dont intend on requiring Everyday to write the 
capital off of this loan. But I think Everyday should refund all of the interest and charges Miss 
M has paid on the March 2019 loan.
Whilst I do think its fair that Miss Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial 
history, I dont think its fair she should be disadvantaged by Everydays decision to lend to 
her irresponsibly. So, I think Everyday should remove any negative information recorded on 
Miss Ms credit file in relation to the March 2019 loan.
My final decision
In light of the above, I require Everyday Lending Limited to;
Add up the total amount of money Miss M received as a result of being given the loan 
in March 2019. The repayments Miss M has made should be deducted from this 
amount.
a) If this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday should attempt to arrange 
an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss M.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ms credit file related to the 
March 2019 loan.
HM Revenue & Customers requires Everyday to take off tax from this interest. Everyday 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman