DRN-3704199
The complaint
V Ltd, represented by Miss M, complained because PrePay Technologies Limited, trading as
Prepay Solutions and Tide (Tide), refused to refund it for two disputed transactions.
What happened
At 4.44am on 3 August, there was a £700 debit to V Ltds account, through a social media
account. V Ltd contacted Prepay Solutions by chat at 9.40am about its Tide account. Miss M
reported that V Ltds social media account had been hacked. She said someone was using it
unlawfully to advertise their business. She asked Tide to block any payments to the social
media site until she told them otherwise.
Tide responded and advised Miss M to freeze her card in its app. It then stressed that Miss
M shouldnt unfreeze her card unless instructed by one of its agents.
Tide went on to ask questions, including whether the card had been lost or stolen, and if
anyone else had access.
Miss M responded to say that she couldnt freeze her card as she needed to use it and it
hadnt been lost or stolen. Instead, someone else was using her social media account. Tide
responded to say that Miss Ms account was secure and that as long as the card remained
frozen no further payments would be made using the card details.
However, while Miss M initially froze the card, she then removed that freeze. The sequence
of events is below:
£700 social media debit at 4.44 on 3 August
£1,000 social media debit at 22.12 on 3 August
oCard blocked at 7.58 on 4 August
oCard unblocked at 22.15 on 5 August
£2,009.33 social media debit at 14.09 on 6 August
oCard blocked at 9.16 on 8 August
oCard unblocked at 10.20 on 9 August.
Miss M complained on behalf of V Ltd as she felt these shouldnt have been allowed. Tide
refunded the initial £700 disputed payment. But it refused to refund the other two disputed
payments, because V Ltd hadnt followed its instruction to block the card and not to unfreeze
it unless instructed by a Tide agent.
Tide acknowledged Miss Ms comments that she needed the card for business purposes and
had asked Tide to block any payments to the social media site. But it said it wasnt able
simply to block one merchant from taking funds from the account on request. It said that it
could see multiple attempts from the social media site to take funds from V Ltds account
which had been prevented during the times when the card had been blocked. But the £1,000
and £2009.33 payments had been made while the card had been unblocked.
Miss M brought V Ltds complaint to this service where our adjudicator felt that Tide should
refund the two transactions. She said that she accepted that V Ltd hadnt authorised the two
disputed transactions which Tide hadnt refunded. So she considered whether or not V Ltds
decision to unblock the card was a fair reason for Tide to refuse a refund.
The adjudicator said that V Ltd had explained that it had incoming and outgoing payments,
and thought these wouldnt be possible if the card was blocked. And Tide hadnt suggested
cancelling the card and issuing a new one. It had just told V Ltd to block the card without
giving any timescales. Nor did it tell V Ltd that if the compromised card was blocked, V Ltd
could continue with other transactions by a different method. The adjudicator also said that
she thought it was likely that if Tide had told V Ltd that it could access the funds by other
methods, V Ltd wouldnt have unblocked the card. So she thought Tide should refund the
two later disputed transactions.
Tide didnt agree. It said it hadnt argued that the two later disputed transactions werent
fraudulent. But if V Ltd had followed its instructions and kept the block on the card, the
transactions wouldnt ever have taken place  which was proven by some attempts being
unsuccessful while the card was frozen. It said the successful transactions only happened
because of the customers negligent behaviour, which was in breach of the account terms
and conditions.
Tide set out the terms and conditions which it said V Ltd had breached. It added that it
always asked customers to freeze a card themselves via the app, and it would only ever
block or cancel a card on a customers behalf in exceptional circumstances if the person
couldnt do it themselves. Tide said that the first thing customers are advised to do  as
happened here  is to freeze the card and not unfreeze it unless Tide advised it to. It said it
had advised that no further payments could be taken from the card while frozen. So the
customer was aware of the risk if they removed the block. And V Ltd had removed the block
twice, which clearly showed negligent behaviour and ignoring instructions which had been
provided to ensure the account was kept safe.
Tide asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both sides where I reached the same outcome as our 
adjudicator, but expanded on the reasoning  giving both sides an opportunity to respond. 
My provisional findings are included below as they are relevant to the final decision Im 
reaching.
What the relevant Regulations say
There are Regulations about disputed transactions, and the relevant ones for this complaint
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In general terms, the bank is liable if
the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise
them. Here, the issue isnt whether or not V Ltd authorised the two later transactions which
Tide refused to refund. Tide has accepted that all three of the transactions werent
authorised by V Ltd - and it refunded the £700 transaction at 4.44 on 3 August in line with
that.
The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments
under certain circumstances  for example if a payment service user (here V Ltd) has failed
with gross negligence to comply with their obligations. The regulations say (in summary)
that a payment instrument such as a card or the procedure used to initiate a payment mustbe used in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its use and issue. These
terms must be objective, non-discriminatory and proportionate. The payment service user
must also notify the bank without undue delay if the payment instrument is lost or stolen and
must take all reasonable steps to keep personalised security credentials relating to a
payment instrument safe.
Here, Tide is making the argument that by unfreezing the card as Miss M did, V Ltd failed
with gross negligence to comply with its obligations under the terms and conditions here.
Tide has provided us with the relevant terms which say:
17.3 You must ensure that:
(a) each Tide Platform User takes all reasonable steps to:
(i) keep his/her Security Codes safe;
(ii) ensure that access to the Tide Platform is kept safe; and
(b) each Tide Cardholder keeps his/her Tide Card safe.
17.5 All Tide Transactions are processed by automated methods, and anyone who
obtains access credentials to the Tide Platform or access to a Tide Card could use it 
to enter into Tide Transactions without your permission. If you, a Tide Platform User 
and/or a Tide Cardholder notices misuse, theft or unauthorised use of:
(a) the Tide Card or a PIN or any other activity that makes you suspicious, 
you must (if
available) freeze the Tide Card or cancel and reorder the Tide Card via the 
Tide Platform and/or (if not available) contact us using the member support 
function on the Tide Platform
22.1 where:
(a) a Tide Payment was not authorised by you or was incorrectly initiated or
executed by us; and
(b) you have notified us using one of the methods set out in clause 26.4, without
undue delay on becoming aware of the unauthorised or incorrectly executed Tide
Payment and in any event:
(i) if you are a Micro-Enterprise or a Charity, no later than 13 months after the
date the Tide Payment was executed,
(ii) if you are not a Micro-Enterprise or a Charity, no later than 2 months after
the date the Tide Payment was executed,
we shall refund to you the full amount debited erroneously immediately and the
amount debited without authorisation as soon as practicable and in any event no
later than the end of the Working Day following the day on which we became aware
of the unauthorised Tide Payment, unless we have reasonable grounds to suspect
fraud and notify the appropriate authorities.
22.2 You will be liable for:
(a) all losses incurred in respect of unauthorised Tide Payments made by 
Tide if you and/or a Tide Platform User has acted fraudulently, or has 
intentionally or has with intent or gross negligence not complied with its 
obligations under clause 17.3 and/or clause 17.4; and
(c) where clause 22.2(a) does not apply, up to £35 of any losses incurred in 
respect of unauthorised Tide Payments arising where you and/or a Tide Platform User has failed to keep the Security Codes safe and/or failed to stop 
the Tide Platform from being misappropriated, except where:
22.3 Except where you have acted fraudulently, you will not be liable for any losses
incurred in respect of unauthorised Tide Payments where:
(a) you have notified Tide in writing, without undue delay, on becoming aware 
of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of any Security Codes 
or the Tide Platform and the failure by Tide to do anything resulted in the
aforementioned loss
There is also a section of the PrePay Solutions terms that are relevant here:
11.10 - You will be liable for all Tide Card Transactions and PPS Payments that take
place as a result of you, any Tide Platform User or Tide Cardholder acting
fraudulently or failing to comply with this Agreement with intent or gross negligence.
Any such Tide Card Transactions and PPS Payments and any fees and charges
relating to such transactions will be deducted from the Available Balance on your
Tide GBP E-Money Account.
Having read the terms, I can, to some extent, see why Tide feels that V Ltd has acted with
gross negligence here. After all, it told Miss M what shed need to do to prevent further
losses like the ones already incurred here and then Miss M didnt follow its instructions. So
that goes against what 17.5(a) above says. On that basis, I can see why Tide thinks it has
grounds to say that V Ltd has been grossly negligent here.
That argument doesnt fully cover all the relevant considerations here though. We recently
highlighted another section of the Payment Services Regulations to Tide:
73.(1) A payment service provider issuing a payment instrument must
(f)prevent any use of the payment instrument once notification has been 
made under regulation 72(1)(b).
The effect of this section of the PSRs outlines that Tide should have prevented any use of
the payment instrument once Miss M notified it of the unauthorised use of the card. So in the
individual circumstances of this case, theres a tension between Tides terms (and what Miss
M did in unfreezing the card on V Ltds behalf) and what Tides wider obligations under the
regulations are.
I note this freezing process is a mechanism that Tide has chosen to specifically mention in
its terms and conditions, rather than a process that is specifically mentioned in the relevant
regulations. I can see why, in many cases, a process like this may help customers. But as
with any process, it wont always lead to a fair outcome in certain circumstances.
I think thats whats happened here. While V Ltd didnt strictly follow Tides process, Miss M
explained to it why it wouldnt be practical to do that at the time, based on the fact that V Ltd
needed to use the card for business reasons. Tide is a business that specifically caters for
small businesses and will be aware that customers like this are unlikely to have more than
one business account to use. Yet with that in mind, no timeframe was placed on when Tide
would resolve this by and neither were alternative options given, so V Ltd could make
payments or use the account while it was frozen.
For example, I cant see that Tide offered to cancel or reissue the card, or explained how the
account could be used in other ways. Ultimately Tide knew that the transactions here
stemmed from Miss Ms social media being compromised and was aware there wereconstant attempts of making more payments (many of which were unsuccessful). So its
difficult to see that strictly insisting on freezing the card as the only solution was a
proportionate response to what Miss M told Tide.
The effect of this was that V Ltd was left in limbo at a time it needed to use the account for
business purposes and Miss M has explained that this was why she unfroze the card.
Against this very specific set of circumstances, I dont think Miss M acted with gross
negligence in doing what she did on V Ltds behalf.
So in these circumstances, it doesnt feel fair for Tide to rely on V Ltd unfreezing the
account as a reason to pass on liability for the transactions. I say this where the liability for
preventing use for the further use of the card here is placed on Tide by the PSRs and the
transactions were made in the same way as the ones Miss M notified Tide of.
Tide has referred to Section 72(3) of the PSRs which explains that a payment service user
must take all reasonable steps to keep safe security information relating to a payment
instrument or account. It says that by removing the block, V Ltd hasnt complied with the
regulation. But on balance here, I dont think this overrides Tides obligation to prevent
further use of the card once Miss M notified it of the issues she was facing here.
That means I think Tide should refund the two transactions of £1,000 and £2009.33. As
V Ltd has been deprived of this money, it should also pay simple interest of 8% from the
date the payments debited the account to the date of any refund here.
Neither Tide nor Miss M on V Ltds behalf responded to my provisional decision, so now I 
have to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, neither party has provided any response to my provisional decision. On that 
basis, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in this on whats fair and 
reasonable to resolve this complaint. So it follows that Tide now need to do what I outlined 
would be fair in that decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions and Tide 
should refund the two transactions of £1,000 and £2009.33. As V Ltd has been deprived of 
this money, it should also pay simple interest of 8% from the date the payments debited the 
account to the date of any refund here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman