DRN-3298077
The complaint
Mr P and Ms B are unhappy that Great Lakes declined a curtailment claim  and a claim for 
taxi costs - made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P and Ms B had the benefit of a single-trip travel insurance policy underwritten by Great 
Lakes (the policy) which covered them for a planned trip abroad in September 2019. The trip 
was due to last two weeks. 
During the second week of their trip Ms B slipped and injured herself. She was taken to 
hospital where she stayed for two nights. After leaving hospital, she and Mr P returned to 
their hotel and they returned to the UK, as planned, on 3 October 2019.
They made a claim on the policy for their holiday being cut short, a small amount invoiced by 
the hospital and the taxi fares incurred by Mr P travelling to and from the hospital to visit 
Ms B whilst she was in hospital. 
Great Lakes agreed to accept the medical related expenses under the policy. It also agreed 
to pay Mr P and Ms B the hospital benefit under the policy to cover the number of days she 
was in hospital. 
However, as Mr P and Ms B returned to the UK on the day they intended, it didnt agree that 
their trip had been cut short. And it declined to pay the taxi fares claimed for. 
Unhappy, Mr P and Ms B brought a complaint to our Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. Mr P and Ms B didnt agree so their complaint 
has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes has an obligation to consider claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
In certain circumstances, the policy does provide cover if Mr P and Ms B needed to cut short 
their holiday, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. However, I think 
Great Lakes has fairly concluded that Mr P and Ms Bs trip wasnt cut short as they returned 
to the UK on the date they originally intended to. 
Ive also considered whether Ms Bs stay in hospital meant that their trip was effectively cut 
short. And whether, in this particular case, it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to 
reimburse Mr P and Ms B for the amount they paid for the trip in proportion to the number of 
days Ms B was in hospital and/or for the time she spent in her hotel after being discharged 
from hospital. However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable here.
Ms B was in hospital for three days during a holiday lasting two weeks. And although she 
and Mr P say Ms B wanted to stay in her hotel room for the remainder of the holiday after 
shed been discharged from hospital  which is of course understandable in the 
circumstances  Ive seen nothing to suggest that she was required to be confined to her 
room as a result of the injury shed sustained.
I know Ms B says she was feeling scared in hospital and Mr P was worried about the 
standard of care she was receiving. As Ms Bs carer, I can also understand why he wanted 
to be with Ms B whilst in hospital. But apart from the taxi costs incurred for the initial journey 
to a hospital abroad due to an insureds persons illness/injury, the policy says taxi fares 
arent covered (general exceptions at clause 10, page 41 of the policy). But Ms B wasnt 
taken to hospital by taxi. So, Im satisfied Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably by not 
reimbursing Mr P and Ms B for the taxi costs claimed. The policy says that the purpose of 
the hospital day benefit  which Great Lakes did pay for the days Ms B was in hospital  is to 
contribute towards additional expenses such as taxi fares. 
The policy also says Great Lakes requires evidence in the form of receipts for any transport 
costs claimed for. And I understand that no receipts were provided for the taxi fares in 
support of the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr P and Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman