DRN-2418456
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs F. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. Barclays says it sold 
Mrs F the policy during a phone call. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs F and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs F has said the PPI was added without her knowledge or agreement. However, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened, unless there was reasonable supporting 
evidence of it. 
The PPI started about 18 years ago, and so its not surprising that any recording of the 
phone conversation is no longer available. And, where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the 
allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make 
someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time 
ago. 
From the little evidence there is  which is evidence of what Barclays staff were trained to 
say during phone calls  it does suggest PPI would have been put forward as an optional 
extra, and customers needed to say whether they wanted it. 
So, on balance, it seems most likely that the PPI was offered as a choice and that Mrs F 
agreed to it, even if she doesnt now remember all these years later. But overall, there just 
isnt enough evidence for me to fairly say the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mrs F now 
believes. 
Barclays probably recommended the PPI to Mrs F, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay 
the credit card bill for a period longer than Mrs Fs employment sick pay. And it would have 
paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs F more 
financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mrs F wouldnt need to fall back on other 
resources so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. And I cant see any other 
reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
So, Ive not found that the PPI was mis-sold. This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F. But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs F because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Mrs F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
What the business needs to do
If it has not already made the payment:
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Mrs F any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs F the difference 
between what Mrs F owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay 
Mrs F 8% simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point. *
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs F can claim back the tax 
if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F. But 
Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman