DRN-3727996
The complaint
Mr S complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund a payment he made with incorrect 
details and he says they breached their terms and conditions.
What happened
Mr S says he made a payment using Wises systems, but the account holder name did not 
match the account number as it contained a typo. He says Wise were unable to cross check 
the accuracy of the information, which resulted in the transfer being made to an incorrect 
account and he had lost his money. Mr S says Wise have breached their contract and he 
made a complaint to them.
Wise did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said that on 14 February 2022, Mr S contacted 
their customer services via their chat support to advise them that he had made a mistake 
with the account details used to send the payment. They initiated a payment recall on 16 
February and their team advised that the recall request had been submitted. Wise say that 
on 1, 9, 16 March they updated the request, however, they received no further updates at 
the time. Wise said that later on 16 March 2022, they received an update from their partner 
bank that the recall request had been denied, due to receiving no response from the 
recipient bank. Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. She said that she was satisfied that Wise 
hadnt made any errors, as they sent the funds to the account details provided on the 
instruction by Mr S. She said after he had contacted them to inform them of the error, Wise 
attempted to recall the funds but this was unsuccessful.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that Wise breached section 12.13 of their terms and conditions and they 
breached the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 as he had not had any proof of evidence 
of a recall being made and submitted to their partner bank, nor evidence of the recall request 
updates by Wise, and no evidence from Wises partner bank confirming theyd not received 
a response to the recall request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mr S has complained that Wise, has breached the Electronic Money Regulations 2011. Ive 
taken the Electronic Money Regulations 2011 into account when deciding this complaint  
given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair 
and reasonable. If Mr S wants a decision that Wise has breached the Electronic Money 
Regulations 2011, then hed need to go to Court.
Id like to explain to Mr S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
reasonable efforts should consist of to recover any money paid as a result of an incorrect 
payment. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct Wise to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial 
businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case 
basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about 
whether a financial business has failed their customer.
I also must be clear that I will only be looking into the actions of Wise here and not any 
partner bank or any other business, as Mr Ss complaint that he has brought to our service is 
against Wise only.
Ive looked at section 12.13 of Wises terms and conditions. They say What happens if you 
provide us with incorrect information. If you provide incorrect information with your payment 
order, we will use reasonable efforts to recover the funds for you, and may need to charge 
you a fee for that.
So Ive looked at Wises system notes to see how they have attempted to recover the funds. 
These show that on 16 February 2022 at 10:12am, that Wise submitted a recall request. The 
notes show on 17 February at 9:30am that they had a reply from the partner bank which 
read Your request is submitted and should be completed on or before (18 March 2022). So 
Im satisfied that Wise successfully managed to raise a recall request as this was 
acknowledged by the recipient bank. 
On 1 March 2022 at 08:45, there is a system note from Wise after checking on the recall 
which says No updates. Another system note on 9 March at 06:59am states no updates, 
within timeframe, leaving on hold. Then a system note on 16 March at 10:14am says no 
updates, within timeframe, leaving on hold. ETA 03/18/2022. On 16 March at 16:00pm, 
there is a system entry which shows the partner bank had replied to them by saying This 
request is denied due to no response from the bank and please let the cst know the recall 
was denied as the bank provided NO response.
So Im persuaded that Wise did not break their terms and conditions. Mr S unfortunately 
entered the incorrect details on the payment request. As there is no Confirmation of Payee 
scheme for international transfers, they would have been unaware that the account holders 
name did not match the payment details given to them by Mr S. Wises terms and conditions 
under 12.12 state You must ensure the information you provide to us is correct. You must 
make sure that the information you provide when setting up a payment order is accurate. If 
we have processed your order in accordance with the information you have provided to us it 
will be considered correctly completed even if you have made a mistake.
Im satisfied that Wise did process the information that Mr S provided to them. But then he 
told Wise he made an error with the account details. So while I have sympathy with Mr Ss 
situation here, I cant say that Wise were responsible for the funds going to an account which 
Mr S did not intend them to go to. Wise do not guarantee that they are able to recall the 
funds were their customer inputs incorrect information. They made efforts to recall his funds, 
but ultimately, they were unsuccessful. Mr S may wish to seek independent legal advice in 
order to recover these funds. But as Wise have not made any errors, it follows that I wont be 
asking Wise to do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman