DRN-3881737
Complaint
Ms T has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to her. She says that George Banco did not properly undertake 
affordability checks when providing this loan.
Background
George Banco provided Ms T with a guarantor loan for £3,000.00 in February 2019. It had 
an APR of 49.74% and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£7,102.20, which included interest, fees and other charges of £4,102.20, was to due be 
repaid in 60 instalments of just under £120. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Ms T and George Banco had told us. And he thought 
that George Banco hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ms T 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ts complaint.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Ms T could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
George Banco says it agreed to Ms Ts application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Ms T. The information Ms T provided about her income and expenditure 
showed shed be able to make the repayments she was committing to. George Banco says, 
in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Ms T has said the loan 
was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms T and George Banco have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Ms Ts first loan with George Banco. The information provided does 
suggest Ms T was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and George 
Banco didnt just rely on what it was told. The credit search carried out showed that Ms T did 
have some outstanding debt but that this wasnt excessive compared to her income. 
Crucially Ms Ts existing debt appeared to be reasonably managed too.
I accept that Ms Ts actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information George Banco obtained. Equally I accept that if 
George Banco had gone into the depth of checks Ms T appears to be saying it should have 
 such as obtaining bank statements  it may have reached a different answer, although Ive 
not been provided with this information to make this determination. 
But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended further  especially where we havent been provided with anything which 
demonstrates the loan was obviously unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that George Banco did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Ms T - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that George Banco treated Ms T unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Ms Ts complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Ms T. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman