DRN-4134284
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost when he was the victim of 
a scam. 
Mr C is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as S.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2022 Mr C was the victim of a crypto scam. When logging off his computer he saw an 
advertisement for investing in crypto and, as hed heard it was possible to earn a lot of 
money from it, he filled in the enquiry form for the scam firm (which Ill refer to as B). B 
contacted Mr C and he was assigned an account manager who told him they were a 
financial adviser, that they would receive commission from his profits and helped set him up 
with a trading account. Mr C says B sounded professional, polite and knowledgeable about 
trading. And that, while he cant remember the exact amount, he thought the commission 
payable seemed reasonable.
Mr C says he researched B online, finding positive and some negative reviews too. This 
didnt faze him as the positive reviews outweighed the negative ones, and every company 
will have some negative reviews. He also thought Bs website appeared genuine, which 
contained multiple successful client stories which reassured him the firm was legitimate. To 
help Mr C learn how to trade, B instructed him to download a remote desktop application. 
And he started with £2,000 to dip his toe in and to test the profits. 
Over the next few months, Mr C had regular conversations with his account manager about 
stock markets and built up a good rapport with him. And by May 2022, Mr C decided he 
wanted to withdraw his profits and was told there would be a withdrawal fee. Upon paying 
this fee, Mr C was told there were more settlement fees that required paying before funds 
could be released. He realised at this point hed fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr C sent the money to a legitimate crypto exchange, to buy crypto, before sending it to Bs 
trading platform. The relevant payments are:
Date Type Amount
22 February 2022 Faster payment £2,000
26 February 2022 Faster payment £2,000
28 February 2022 Faster payment £2,000
1 March 2022 Faster payment £2,000
2 March 2022 Faster payment £2,000
16 March 2022 Faster payment £2,000
22 March 2022 Faster payment £8,000
12 April 2022 Faster payment £8,000
17 May 2022 Faster payment £5,925
19 May 2022 Faster payment £5,684
19 May 2022 Faster payment £4,137
20 May 2022 Faster payment £10,000
26 May 2022 Faster payment £500
Total: £54,246
S complained to Monzo, on behalf of Mr C, in October 2022. They said Monzo failed in their 
duty of care to protect Mr C from the scam as they didnt provide effective warnings to him at 
the time the payments were made. S considered Monzo ought to have identified the 
payments as unusual  based on Mr Cs typical spending habits  and contacted him to 
enquire about them. Had they done so, it wouldve been apparent Mr C was falling victim to 
a scam and, upon appropriate warnings/advice being provided, Mr C wouldnt have gone 
ahead with making the payments. S said, to settle the complaint, Mr C would accept 
reimbursement of the monies he lost.
Monzo rejected the complaint. In short, they said:
They executed the payments in line with Mr Cs instructions. And so, theyre not 
liable for the return of them. 
Prior to making the first payment, an online warning was provided to him. Mr C 
proceeded with the payments despite this warning. 
Mr C failed to carry our reasonable due diligence on the scammers. For example, he 
didnt check Companies House or whether B were regulated.
S has failed to identify what duty of care was owed to Mr C and, to which, they 
breached. 
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code doesnt apply to these payments. 
The payments were made to an account registered in Mr Cs name. Therefore, the 
loss didnt occur from the Monzo bank account. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman and our Investigator thought it 
should be upheld in part. He thought Monzo ought to have contacted Mr C when he made 
the fourth £2,000 payment on 1 March 2022. This is because, by this point, Mr C had sent 
£8,000 over the course of ten days and this was unusual for his account. And had this 
happened, Monzo shouldve identified Mr C was being scammed as there were red flags  
such as a remote desktop application being used and the funds being sent to a trading 
platform via a crypto exchange. 
Our Investigator said it was likely an appropriate scam warning wouldve been effective. And 
so, he recommended Monzo refund all the payments Mr C made from 1 March 2022 
onwards  totalling £48,246. He didnt however think any interest should be applied as S had 
confirmed the money came from a non-interest-bearing account and there wasnt any 
alternative use planned for it.  
S confirmed Mr Cs acceptance.
Monzo disagreed. And, in short, they added:They believe Mr C didnt have reasonable belief for making the payments in question 
as:
oHe saw a spam advertisement and inputted his information.
oHe looked up reviews but cant recall where. And theyve been unable to find 
any such reviews after an extensive search.
oHe trusted reviews on Bs own website which isnt always the most 
trustworthy form of verification.
oHe talked to the scammer.
So, they dont think Mr C did anything in particular that equates to due diligence  
particularly given, as per the Investigators opinion, the investment was high risk. 
Thereby meaning the threshold for expected diligence should be even higher. 
This high risk is arguably too good to be true, and what returns were promised?
They asked for confirmation of the basis for the opinion reached by our Investigator 
regarding potential regulation, CRM code or guidance relied upon. 
Our Investigator added that the CRM code doesnt apply here and he hadnt relied upon it. 
He also reiterated that he thought the fourth payment ought to have triggered an intervention 
by Monzo which wouldve likely prevented the scam payments being made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this one. But the CRM code only 
applies to payments made to an account held by another person. As the payments Mr C 
made were sent to an account he held in his own name, theyre not covered under the CRM 
code. Ive therefore considered whether Monzo should reimburse Mr C under any of their 
other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that Mr C knowingly made the 
payments from his Monzo account. I appreciate Mr C was tricked by the scammer as he 
thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. Nevertheless, Im satisfied the payments 
were authorised by Mr C. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms 
of his account, Monzo are expected to process the payments and Mr C is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
I have however taken into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice. This includes, but isnt limited to:
The British Standards Institute code of practice PAS 17271.
FCA Principles for Businesses 2 and 6, and SYSC 3.2.6R.The FSAs (the predecessor to the FCA) thematic review paper of 2012, Banks 
defences against investment fraud  Detecting perpetrators and protecting victims.
From this, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Monzo to take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. So, the starting point here is 
whether the instructions given by Mr C to Monzo were unusual enough - in relation to his 
typical account activity  to have expected Monzo to have identified Mr C was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud.
Having looked at Mr Cs account usage in the twelve months prior to the scam occurring, it 
was used for infrequent small value transactions  with the highest being for £59. Because 
of this, I think payments of £2,000 were out of character for Mr C. Banks however must strike 
a balance between allowing customers to be able to use their account and questioning 
transactions to confirm theyre legitimate. And so, I dont think a single payment of £2,000 
was suspicious enough for Monzo to have had cause for concern that Mr C was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. But by the point of the fourth £2,000 payment, made within 10 
days of the first payment and to a new payee (which can be indicators of a scam), I think 
there wouldve been sufficient reason for Monzo to have had cause for concern. I therefore 
think they ought to have held the fourth payment and contacted Mr C before processing it.
Had Monzo done so, I think its likely Mr C wouldve been honest in explaining the purpose 
of the payments  that being for crypto investment purposes. And given Monzo are aware of 
the prevalence of crypto scams, it wouldve been reasonable for them to have questioned 
Mr C about it further  including how he came across the opportunity, whether there was a 
third party involved and what checks hed carried out to ensure the investment was 
legitimate. 
Ive no reason to think Mr C wouldnt have answered honestly. So, I think he wouldve told 
Monzo that hed submitted his personal details on an online pop-up advertisement 
advertising crypto. And that B assisted him in setting up a trading account, by way of a 
remote desktop application, and he was sending the money to the trading platform via a 
legitimate crypto exchange. Hed also likely explained that hed searched B online, finding 
mixed reviews, and reviewed their website which appeared genuine and included positive 
client stories.
As our Investigator explained, I think this wouldve been a red flag to Monzo as they should 
be familiar with the methods used by crypto scammers. And so, at this point, I think Monzo 
ought to have highlighted to Mr C that there was a significant risk of it being a scam and 
encouraged him to not make any further payments. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr C 
wouldnt have acted on such advice. I therefore think its reasonable to assume, had he been 
given a clear warning that it was very likely he was being scammed, Mr C wouldve most 
likely stopped making payments to the scammer. It follows that I think Monzo couldve 
prevented Mr Cs loss from this point onwards.
Monzo have said theyre not responsible for the loss Mr C suffered as the funds were sent to 
an account in his own name, before being sent to B. Although Ive considered this, as Ive 
explained, Monzo should take additional steps before processing a payment  where its 
identified as unusual or suspicious - to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. And I consider this obligation exists when payments are made to accounts 
in the customers own name (or control).
Here, for the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that the fourth payment of £2,000 was 
sufficiently unusual and out of character for Mr C, based on his typical account activity, to have warranted intervention. It follows that I think Monzos lack of intervention led to Mr C 
suffering the loss he did from 1 March 2022 onwards  totalling £48,246.
Ive also thought about whether Mr C did enough to protect himself from the scam. Monzo 
has argued Mr C didnt carry out sufficient due diligence on B before proceeding. Nor did 
Mr C have a reasonable belief for making the payments in question given he responded to a 
spam advertisement, theyve been unable to find the online reviews on B he wouldve seen 
and that he trusted information from Bs own website. 
Ive carefully considered this but, given Mr C was unfamiliar with crypto investing, I wouldnt 
necessarily have expected him to have known what checks to carry out - such as whether B 
was a registered company or authorised by a financial regulator - without, say, the direction 
of Monzo. Ive likewise been unable to find much information about B online, such as 
reviews. Ive not been able to find any reviews of B online but even if I agreed with Monzo 
that there werent reviews, Im still satisfied that Mr C fell for a sophisticated scam where he 
was provided access to  what he thought was - a professional account manager, a trading 
account and professional looking website. And while I agree with Monzo that relying on a 
firms website isnt the most reliable method of verification, I dont think it was wholly 
unreasonable for Mr C to do so. So, while Mr C may have been overly trusting of B, likely 
because of the regular conversations and their professional manner, I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to reduce the award based on contributary negligence in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I therefore think, to put things right, Monzo should refund £48,246 to Mr C. And given S has 
confirmed the funds Mr C sent to the scammer came from a non-interest-bearing account, I 
dont think it would be appropriate to award additional interest here. S has confirmed Mr Cs 
acceptance of this and so, I think the refund of the scam payments from 1 March 2022 alone 
brings a fair outcome to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to refund 
£48,246 to Mr C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman