DRN-2795357
Complaint
Miss G has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Miss G bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill now explain why.
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gain 
Miss Gs consent. It has provided a copy of Miss Gs store card application form from the 
time of sale. At the top of the application form there is a section titled PAYMENT 
PROTECTION. The section gives information about the PPI and asks Please indicate 
whether or not you require Payment Protection by ticking one of the boxes below. The two 
options given are Yes, I want my Account covered with Payment Protection plus 12 months 
Purchase Cover. Please debit my Account with the relevant premium until further notice or 
No, I do not require protection and understand it is my responsibility to keep up my 
payments. There is a further statement underneath to ask customers to ensure they have 
clearly indicated their instructions and to inform that the first premium is free, with the 
customer being able to cancel the PPI at any time. I can see from Miss Gs application form 
that the Yes box has been ticked, indicating she wanted the cover added to her account. 
Ive also noted that on the application form, Miss G had the option of selecting whether or 
not she wanted Card Protection Plan. Miss G didnt select this product, so I think she would 
have known she had a choice about taking out either product. I can also see that the overall 
credit agreement has been signed by Miss G, agreeing to its contents.
So overall, I think its more likely than not that Miss G agreed to the PPI knowing she had a 
choice.
Miss G has said she cant recall if AXA recommended the PPI to her. AXA has said that it 
didnt. Based on the information I have seen, I dont think that it did and so, it didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for her. It was up to Miss G to decide if she would like to take the 
cover. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. Having looked at the closest available policy terms and conditions to the date of 
the sale, I think it is more likely than not, Miss G was eligible for the cover and she doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-
existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt 
affordable for Miss G.
Miss G has told us she would have been entitled to at least six months pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. And she has said that she had at least three months 
worth of savings at the time that she could have used if needed. 
Having thought about what Miss G has said about her sick pay and savings, I dont think this 
means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss G would have received from her employer and 
would have potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay  until the 
end date, Miss G stopped being ill or the outstanding balance had been paid. The PPI also 
would have paid a benefit if Miss G was ever made redundant until the end date, Miss G 
stopped being unemployed or the outstanding balance had been paid. The PPI would also 
have meant Miss G would have been able to use her savings for any other commitments at 
what could have been a difficult time. 
So overall, I think Miss G could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times 
and I dont think that any better information would have put her off taking out the policy.
Ive taken into account Miss Gs comments, including what she has said about receiving a 
refund of PPI on store card accounts where her circumstances were the same. But I am only 
able to consider all of the information about the PPI taken out with this store card in 1995 
and so this point doesnt change my conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman