DRN-4027239
The complaint
Mr K complains about a declined claim he made on a pet insurance policy with HDI Global 
Specialty SE (HDI).
HDI are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of their agents. As HDI have accepted they are accountable for the actions of their agents, in 
my decision, any reference to HDI includes the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr K and HDI. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr K took out a life time pet insurance policy with HDI in 2021, to cover his cat. The policy 
was due to renew on 31 July 2022. Mr K was sent a renewal invite on 10 July 2022 and a 
policy lapsing email on 28 July 2022. HDIs records show that the policy wasnt renewed 
and it expired.
On 31 July 2022, Mr K took out a new policy with HDI. A few weeks later, Mr K tried to claim 
against his policy - but HDI declined the claim as they said the first signs or symptoms were 
noticed (on 4 August 2022) within 14 days of the start of the policy. Mr K raised a complaint 
as he said this wasnt a new policy, rather a renewal of his existing policy and regardless, 
the condition being claimed for wasnt diagnosed until after scans on 24 August 2022  
which was after the 14 day waiting period.
As Mr K remained unhappy with HDIs response to his complaint, he referred it to our 
Service for an independent review. Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. Mr K didnt accept what the Investigator had recommended, so 
the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
I sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings recently. As the deadline for 
responses has now passed, Ive now considered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Both parties responded to 
my provisional decision, but as no materially new evidence has been presented, I see no fair 
or reasonable to deviate from my provisional, intended findings. However, I have amended 
my direction slightly to take account of the lower premiums Mr K was charged. This has 
already been communicated to Mr K. 
The policy end/renewal
Mr K has argued that the policy he was claiming against wasnt a new policy - but a 
continuation of the existing policy taken out in 2021. Ive considered the information Mr K 
was given when he took this policy out. The policy schedule stated:
Ive then considered the policy renewal invite which stated: Renewal Date: 31/07/2022.
Another renewal reminder stated:
As you may be aware the policy for [pets name redacted by Ombudsman] is due to 
expire on 31/07/2022.
As [pets name redacted by Ombudsman] policy was paid in full by Credit/Debit Card 
last year this means it will automatically expire on your renewal date unless we hear 
from you to provide us with payment instructions.
Based on a reasonable interpretation of the above, the contract of insurance was due to end 
on 31 July 2022. In the absence of a time being specified, a reasonable interpretation is that 
Mr K had until the end of 31 July 2022 to renew the policy,
HDI sent Mr K a further communication stating:
As we have not had any instructions from you to renew your policy, it has expired with us on 
30/07/2022. [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman]
But this would mean that Mr Ks contract of insurance ended before 31 July 2022 and was 
for 364 days instead of 365 days. The relevant terms of business also stated:
Renewal
All our policies are annual policies which run for 12 consecutive calendar months 
[bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] effective from the commencement date.
Ive carefully noted that despite providing a relatively detailed response overall, HDI didnt 
comment on this specific finding in their response to my provisional decision and have 
remained silent on it. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr K took out the new policy on 31 July 2022 (which he thought 
was a continuation of his existing policy) in good faith  prior to his pet first displaying 
symptoms. 
This is important because the extracts highlighted above would reasonably suggest to a 
policy holder that their contract of insurance ended on 31 July 2022  the same date that   
Mr K thought he had renewed this policy. If it was intended by HDI that cover would end at 
11.59pm on 30 July 2022, their communication needed to make this clear - it didnt, and I 
find that Mr K has lost out because of this.
Given the particular type of cover taken out here, HDI will recognise the importance of 
having continuous cover in place for pet owners. Whilst I accept that Mr K couldve acted 
sooner (after receiving the renewal invites), Im only considering the actions of HDI here and 
the information they gave Mr K.
HDI have said that Mr K took out a new policy via an aggregator/comparison site and it 
would have been obvious that he was taking out a new policy  rather than renewing. HDI 
have also said that the premiums Mr K was charged for the new policy were lower than the 
renewal quote of £266.64. But Im not at all persuaded that Mr K will have intentionally 
taken out a new policy on 31 July for the sake of a small saving. I say this because Mr K 
didnt want a break in cover for the limitations/waiting period reasons that HDI have 
referenced and, as covered above, the communication from HDI was fairly interpreted as 
meaning he could still renew on 31 July. 
For the sake of fairness and completeness, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, 
HDI can fairly deduct the difference between the renewal invitation quote and the price that 
Mr K actually paid from the value of any claim settlement here. This recognises that Mr K 
was charged a slightly lower premium than if the policy had renewed as hed intended. 
The declined claim and how have HDI treated Mr K overall?
I find that for the purposes of this claim, HDI should now treat this policy as a continuation of 
the policy first taken out on 31 July 2021. 
By effectively removing any break in cover, this means that it is unfair of HDI to rely on the 
14 day waiting period as a reason to decline this claim. HDI now need to reconsider the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms. Should this be a claim that progresses to 
settlement, HDI should add 8% simple interest from the date Mr K first made this claim until 
the date that any claim settlement is made.
I also find that HDI havent treated Mr K fairly or reasonably here and theyve caused 
avoidable trouble and upset because of how theyve handled this claim. I direct HDI to pay 
Mr K £150 to recognise the impact of their actions on him.
Putting things right
For ease, Ive summarised my direction below:
For the purposes of this claim, HDI Global Specialty SE should now treat this policy 
as a continuation/renewal of the policy first taken out on 31 July 2021 and consider 
the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Should this be a claim that progresses to settlement, HDI Global Specialty SE can 
fairly deduct the price difference between the renewal quote and the price that Mr K 
paid for the new policy from any settlement amount. This is to address HDI Global 
Specialty SEs point about Mr K benefitting financially from having a cheaper policy.
HDI Global Specialty SE also need to add 8% simple interest, per annum to any 
claim settlement amount from the date Mr K initially raised this claim, to the date that 
any claim settlement is paid to him.
HDI Global Specialty SE need to pay Mr K £150 compensation to recognise the 
avoidable trouble and upset caused as a result of their actions and how theyve 
handled things here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HDI Global Specialty SE now need to follow 
my direction, as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman