DRN-3049404
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Flex Plus packaged bank account. He says that he thought he needed the account in 
order to get a debit card, he was unaware of the benefits and that he thought the interest 
that the account paid would outweigh the cost of the account
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ls complaint and he concluded that Nationwide had 
not mis-sold the account. He also concluded that Mr L was told about the credit interest 
being removed from his account.
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
Having looked at everything that Mr L and Nationwide have provided, I am unable to 
conclude that the account had been mis-sold or that Nationwide has acted unreasonably. I 
will explain why.
Mr L has explained that he thought he had to upgrade his account in order to get a debit 
card, but my understanding is that he  already held one with the fee free Flex account that 
he held prior to upgrading to the Flex Plus account. Therefore, I am satisfied that Mr L 
wouldve known that fee free accounts were available and an option for him. So overall, I 
think that he took out the account knowing he did not have to.
Im satisfied that the account was sold to him on a non-advised basis. This means that 
Nationwide was not required to check if the packaged account, or any of the individual 
benefits it included, were right for Mr L. However, Nationwide was required to present Mr L 
with the important information about the account and associated benefits, so that he could 
decide for himself whether it was right for him. 
Nationwide says that the script that the member of staff wouldve followed during the 
application process wouldve highlighted the main packaged benefits, the monthly cost of the 
account and exclusions of the insurance products, as well as explain Mr Ls cancellation 
rights. I am satisfied that at the very least he wouldve been told the main benefits to make 
the account seem attractive in order to persuade him to take out the account.
I accept that Mr L may have not been told everything about all of the features of the account. 
But I cant see anything specific that Mr L was not told that I think wouldve altered his 
decision to take out the account.
Mr L has said that he was told the credit interest that he earned on a monthly basis would 
cover the cost of the account. I have looked at his bank statements around the time of the 
sale and I am satisfied that the interest that he was earning was clearly listed alongside the 
cost of the account. So I think that Mr L wouldve been aware of the interest that he was 
earning.
Given this I am unable to say that the Flex Plus account was mis-sold in the first instance.
I note Mr Ls concerns in relation to the removal of credit interest on his account which 
occurred in November 2019. I firstly should explain that Nationwide was entitled to alter the 
features of the Flex Plus account as this is a commercial decision that it is allowed to make. 
That said, Nationwide did have to inform Mr L of this prior to the change occurring. In this 
instance Nationwide has provided template of letters and e-mails that it says it wouldve sent 
to Mr L prior to the change occurring. So, on balance I think that Nationwide did enough to 
let Mr L know that credit interest was being removed from the account.
Overall and having considered everything, I cant say that Nationwide mis-sold the account 
or acted unreasonably in this matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman