DRN-4131848
The complaint
Mr D complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) unfairly defaulted his two 
loan accounts.
What happened
Mr D says he applied for a payment holiday online and telephoned Halifax a few days later 
on 10 August 2022, as he hadnt the funds to make his monthly loan repayments on his two 
loan accounts. Mr D says Halifax agreed to a one-month payment holiday. Mr D says he 
discovered in November 2022 his loans had been defaulted as his direct debit for the two 
monthly loan payments hadnt been claimed. Mr D says he wasnt informed of this by Halifax 
and never received the letters it says it sent him. Mr D says Halifax never telephoned him or 
sent him emails, it simply relied on the postal system before defaulting him and damaging 
his credit file. Mr D says this matter has caused him considerable upset and stress and 
wants Halifax to remove the default on his credit file. 
Halifax says it agreed with Mr D a one-month payment holiday but due to the fact hed 
originally applied for this only a few days before the loan payments were due, it could only 
put a payment holiday in place for the following month, which was explained to him over the 
telephone. Halifax says it also informed Mr D during that telephone call in August 2022, that 
his direct debit would be cancelled to avoid it being represented and he would need to make 
alternative arrangements going forward. Halifax says it agreed with Mr D that the loan 
payments that were missed in August 2022 would need to be made up to date before the 
September 2022 loan instalments were due. 
Halifax says Mr D failed to make the loan payments due in the following months and despite 
writing to him and advising him of this via his banking app, Mr D didnt contact them, so it 
defaulted the loans and placed the loan accounts with debt collection agents. Halifax says it 
has acted correctly here.
Mr D wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Halifax had carried out the correct steps before defaulting Mr Ds loan 
account as he had failed to make the required payments for the preceding three months. 
The investigator says he had seen evidence to show Halifax had written to Mr D concerning 
his arrears and had also sent messages via his banking app in line with its process and 
didnt feel it needed to also telephone Mr D about this. The investigator felt Mr D had an 
obligation to make sure he made his monthly loan payments on time. The investigator felt 
Halifax had acted fairly when it registered the default and passed the loan accounts to the 
debt collection agents when it did. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr D to have learnt his two loan accounts 
had been defaulted, when he believed the direct debit for the monthly payments were going 
to be reinstated by Halifax after the agreed payment holiday. When looking at this complaint 
I will consider if Halifax acted fairly when it defaulted Mr Ds two loan accounts in November 
2022. I have been provided with comprehensive details, including telephone call recordings 
and transcripts and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point as I 
dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. 
The first thing to say is Mr D has questioned why a transcript of a telephone call he had with 
Halifax in August 2022 was used as evidence in this case, but the investigator has explained 
its important that this service looks at all the available evidence in order to come to a full and 
impartial decision, after all Mr D did ask this service to consider other calls he had made to 
Halifax in November 2022, which I have considered here. 
Mr Ds complaint centres around the fact Halifax defaulted his two loan accounts in 
November 2022, although hed never received any earlier letters or other forms of 
communication from them to tell him of this. Mr D says hed arranged a loan payment 
holiday with Halifax in August 2022 and expected the loan payments to be collected by direct 
debit as before, but this didnt happen. 
While I understand the points Mr D makes here, Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I 
say this because I have seen the transcript of a call Mr D had with Halifax in August 2022 
where he agrees to cancel the direct debit to his loan accounts and arrange for these to be 
reinstated at a later date to allow him breathing space for that month, as he was struggling to 
meet the payments due that day. In fact, Mr D had earlier applied for a one-month payment 
holiday online, on 6 August 2022, but was informed when he called a few days later that hed 
missed the deadline for that month, so Halifax had agreed to give him a payment holiday for 
September 2022 instead. 
In that telephone call Halifax agreed to reverse the loan payments due to be taken on that 
day in August 2022, but on the understanding Mr D would need to make arrangements to 
make these payments up before 10 September 2022. From the transcript notes Ive seen of 
that call Mr D agrees to this arrangement and when questioned whether he could afford to 
make this payment up in that timescale he said he could, explaining the issue was related to 
the costs of a house he was having built overseas which was coming to an end shortly. 
Furthermore, during that conversation with the agent from Halifax it was again explained to 
Mr D he would need to manually make this payment before 10 September 2022, after which 
Halifax could discuss arranging for a new direct debit to be set up for future payments and 
he was asked if he understood - Mr D said he did. 
Following on from this I cant see Mr D attempted to make up the payment as agreed nor did 
he attempt to call Halifax to make the manual payment as previously explained to him. As a 
result, Mr D missed payments due on his two loan accounts in August, October, and 
November 2022. I can see that Halifax did send a letter to Mr D in August 2022 advising him 
of the one-month payment holiday for September 2022 and then wrote a further five letters 
between mid-September 2022 and late November 2022 advising him of missed payments, 
arrears, and eventual defaulting of the loans. Mr D says he never received the earlier letters regarding the default and arrears and questioned why Halifax didnt try to telephone him or 
contact him by some other method. Although I understand the point Mr D makes here, its 
fair to say that in the circumstances where a payment holiday is agreed, altering the original 
loan agreements in place, or where a missed payment or default is to be registered then I 
would expect this to be formally communicated by letter and its not for me to tell Halifax it 
must additionally telephone him about this. 
Its worth saying Mr D would have also received bank statements online so he would have 
been able to see the loan payments hadnt been taken and it remains his responsibility to 
ensure he keeps to the terms and conditions of those loans and makes sure those loan 
payments are made on time. Mr D provided this service with a copy of a letter dated 25 
October 2022 from Halifax outlining the timescales he had to prevent further action being 
taken, but from the information I have seen Mr D only telephoned Halifax in late November 
2022, by which time the default had been registered. 
Its not clear why Mr D says he didnt receive the other letters Halifax sent to him addressed 
to the same address the letter of 25 October 2022 was sent, but I cant hold it responsible for 
their non-receipt and overall, in any event Im satisfied Mr D had the opportunity to check his 
payments were being collected as they had prior to the payment holiday. While I have some 
sympathy with the fact Mr D suggests he wasnt fully aware of what hed agreed to and was 
under some stress at the time in August 2022, its also reasonable to say if he was in any 
doubt he had the opportunity to speak to  Halifax to discuss matters between September 
2022 and November 2022, when the default was finally registered. 
So here, I am satisfied Halifax did clearly inform Mr D of the terms of the agreement of the 
one-month payment holiday in August 2022 and had taken reasonable steps to let him know 
of the consequences of him not making the loan payments when they became due. Halifax 
have a responsibility and obligation to accurately record its customers account activity to the 
relevant credit reference agencies and Im satisfied it did that here for the reasons I have 
already stated. 
While Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Halifax.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman