DRN-3921945
The complaint
Ms L complains that when her tumble dryer broke down British Gas Insurance Limited didnt 
repair it within a reasonable time, so she needed to replace it. Theyve offered her 50% of 
the cost of her new tumble dryer, but she wants them to cover the whole cost of the 
replacement.
What happened
Ms L has cover for her kitchen appliances, including her tumble dryer with British Gas. In 
July 2022 Ms Ls tumble dryer broke down and she contacted British Gas to arrange a 
repair. An engineer attended on 19 July 2022 and repaired the tumble dryer. But it broke 
down again on 12 September 2022. 
Ms L contacted British Gas and they sent an engineer the same day. He told Ms L that parts 
were required, and a further appointment was arranged for 23 September 2022.
On 19 September 2022 British Gas tried to call Ms L to tell her theyd been a delay with the 
parts. They couldnt contact her as they had the wrong number. But she was made aware 
that the appointment for 23 September 2022 was cancelled. Ms L raised a complaint about 
the cancelled appointment and told British Gas she needed to buy a new tumble dryer as 
she had no way to dry clothes.
On 24 September 2022 Ms L bought a new tumble dryer costing £230. She says she didnt 
receive a response from British Gas until 10 November 2022, when they asked her to 
provide proof of purchase of her new machine. She sent this to them the same day, and on 
16 November 2022 they offered her £69, 30% of the cost, which they said was in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. 
Ms L says she replied to British Gas the same day pointing out that as her machine was 
under three years old, the terms and conditions said she was entitled to 100% of the cost of 
a new one. She heard back from them on 18 November 2022 saying that as her old tumble 
dryer hadnt been deemed beyond repair, and as shed made the decision to replace it 
without their agreement, theyd only contribute 30% towards her new machine. This offer 
was later increased to 50%, which Ms L didnt accept.
British Gas replied to Ms Ls complaint on 23 December 2022. They said theyd tried to call 
her about her complaint on 27 September 2022 and text her on 4 October 2022 but werent 
able to contact her as they had an incorrect number. They were able to contact her on 17 
November 2022 to let her know that they had the parts for her machine, but shed bought a 
replacement by then.
British Gas acknowledged that theyd been a lack of updates from them, but said the terms 
and conditions of Ms Ls policy said that if they werent able to repair her machine, and 
decided to replace it, theyd source a replacement from their approved supplier. But given 
the delay and lack of updates theyd increased their offer to 50% of the purchase price which 
she hadnt accepted.
To recognise the level of service shed received British Gas offered Ms L £60 compensation 
but werent prepared to increase their offer of 50% towards the cost of her new tumble dryer.
Ms L wasnt happy with this and complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case and upheld Ms Ls complaint. She said British Gas 
should increase the amount theyd offered Ms L by £55, so she received the full cost of the 
new tumble dryer shed purchased. 
She agreed that under a strict interpretation of the policy, Ms L was only entitled to a 
contribution towards the cost of her new machine. And she accepted that there was no 
evidence that Ms Ls tumble dryer wasnt repairable. But given the time it took British Gas to 
contact her, the missed appointment, and the delay in getting parts, she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Ms L to buy a new machine. And if she hadnt bought one, shed have 
been without a tumble dryer for at least nine weeks.
Ms L accepted our investigators opinion, but British Gas didnt. They said a tumble dryer 
isnt an essential appliance. Ms Ls machine could have been repaired, and although this 
would have involved a longer wait than shed have liked, the delay in obtaining the parts was 
beyond their control. 
They also said that theyd tried to contact Ms L but due to a system error had an incorrect 
number for her. And they consider it was unreasonable for her to replace the tumble dryer 12 
days after she reported a problem, without contacting them first. And as she took this route, 
and decided not to engage with them, they consider their offer to be more than fair and 
reasonable.
The case has now come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As British Gas have said the terms and conditions of Ms Ls say that theyll provide a 
contribution towards a replacement appliance, if they cant repair it, or decide its cheaper to 
replace than to repair. And that theyll source the replacement from their approved supplier. 
Ms L has provided proof that her tumble dryer was less than three years old so the 
contribution would be 100% of the cost.
Ms L purchased a replacement only 12 days after she reported a problem with the tumble 
dryer to British Gas, and without contacting them to get approval, and this might seem 
unreasonable. But I also need to consider the actions they took. 
Ms L had an appointment for a further engineers visit on 23 September 2022. This was 
cancelled by British Gas and she raised a complaint. It was after this that she bought the 
new tumble dryer.
After cancelling that appointment Ms L didnt hear from British Gas until 10 November 2022. 
They accept there was a delay but blame a system error for the wrong telephone number 
being recorded. But theyd been able to contact her before and had a correct number then. 
So Im not satisfied British Gas did all that they could to contact Ms L and keep her informed. 
When British Gas contacted her on 10 November 2022, they asked for proof of purchase 
and offered her 30% of the cost of her new machine. It was only when she pointed out she was entitled to a 100% contribution that they said they hadnt approved the purchase.
And it wasnt until 17 November 2022 that the parts for her old machine were available. 
While the timescale for delivery of parts may have been out of the control of British Gas, if 
Ms L hadnt taken the action she did, shed have been without a tumble dryer for over two 
months. British Gas may think a tumble dryer isnt essential. But Ms L had told them she 
couldnt dry clothes without one, so it was essential for her.
So even though Ms L bought her new tumble dryer shortly after shed reported a fault, I dont 
think she acted unreasonably. Shed already been without her machine for 11 days when the 
further engineers appointment was cancelled. And I dont think British Gas can really believe 
it would have been reasonable to expect her to wait until 17 November 2022, for parts to be 
available. 
While the terms and conditions of the policy provide for British Gas to source any 
replacement appliance, Ms L bought a reasonably priced replacement. So shes no asking 
them to pay for a really expensive appliance they could have sourced more cheaply.
So given the lack of updates and time Ms L would have been without a tumble dryer had she 
waited to hear from British Gas, Im persuaded she acted reasonably and that she shouldnt 
be out of pocket because she needed a replacement machine. 
So I require British Gas to increase the compensation theyve offered Ms L to £230, the sum 
she paid for her new tumble dryer. Its not clear if theyve paid the sums previously offered to 
Ms L and this sum is inclusive of any such payments.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ls complaint about 
British Gas Insurance Limited.
And to put things right I require them to pay her compensation of £230, the sum she paid for 
her new tumble dryer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman