DRN-3138249
The complaint
Mr R complained about a packaged bank account (PBA). The PBA started in 2003 and was 
sold to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr R said hed been told he had to have the PBA to 
get a loan or overdraft, but that the PBA had not been of benefit to him. 
What happened
Mr R had had a bank account with Barclays for many years, and this didnt have a regular 
account fee. In 2003 he switched to an Additions Plus PBA account, which did have a 
monthly fee. Mr R says he was told he had to have the PBA to get a loan or overdraft.
In January 2017, Barclays transferred the account to one that offered similar benefits: it was 
a free account, but with added on Tech Packs which offered benefits that cost a monthly 
fee. Barclays wrote to Mr R in advance, to warn him this was happening and to explain what 
he should do if he didnt want this. Mr R cancelled the Tech packs in February 2018. 
One of our adjudicators said that the main part of the complaint was outside the time limits 
for complaining. She explained to Mr R why she thought this, and he didnt appeal against 
that. 
The adjudicator then looked instead at what happened in 2016 and 2017, when Barclays told 
Mr R it was transferring the account to one with Tech Packs. These aspects of the case 
werent outside the time limits for complaining. But she said she thought Barclays hadnt 
done anything wrong in the way it transferred Mr Rs account at this time. 
Mr R didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Im looking here just at the transfer of the account to one with Tech Packs, which 
happened in January 2017, and the way Barclays told Mr R about it in advance. Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the letter that Barclays sent to warn Mr R of the change; and I think this was 
clear enough, in setting out his options. It was clear what steps he would need to take, to 
avoid having the Tech Packs. I dont think those steps would have been especially difficult 
or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman