DRN-2046086
The complaint
Mr B complains that Prudential Assurance Company Limited advised him to transfer his 
deferred benefits in a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a section 32 
pension. Prudential upheld Mr Bs complaint but Mr B disagrees with its calculation of the 
loss he suffered.
What happened
Mr B had a deferred DB pension with rights accrued from May 1980 until May 1986. He was 
advised to transfer his deferred benefits in this scheme to a Prudential section 32 buy-out 
bond in 1987.
Mr B contacted Prudential in September 2019 to complain about the advice it gave him to 
transfer his deferred DB scheme benefits in 1987. Mr Bs complaint was brought by a claims 
management company (CMC) acting on his behalf. The complaint was referred to our 
service in November 2019.
Prudential responded to Mr B on 16 January 2020 upholding his complaint. But explained 
that the loss assessment they carried out showed that Mr B hadnt suffered any financial loss 
as a result of the transfer.
Mr Bs CMC didnt agree and challenged Prudentials loss calculations. They said Prudential 
underestimated Mr Bs final salary at leaving the scheme, that the revaluation rate chosen 
for the excess over the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) was wrong, and that it failed to 
properly allow for increases in income past retirement age.
Prudential revisited the loss calculations in March 2020 based on the concerns Mr B 
highlighted. Its loss calculations then showed a loss in the value of Mr Bs pension benefits 
of £39,699.76. It made Mr B an offer of compensation for the amount of the loss plus £250 
for the trouble and upset that hed been caused. Mr B accepted that offer but reserved the 
right to still have his complaint considered by our service, which Prudential agreed to.
Mr Bs CMC still didnt agree that the figure that Prudential had reached was fair. And asked 
Prudential to agree to an independent provider carrying out the loss calculation based on 
assumptions to be agreed with Prudential. Prudential declined so its fallen to our service to 
consider a fair and reasonable outcome.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He thought that Prudentials most recent loss 
assessment approached the matter in a fair way. He recognised that little evidence existed 
to explain the benefits that the DB scheme offered. And thought that the model that 
Prudential applied was appropriate. He was also satisfied that Prudential had followed the 
appropriate Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance in performing the loss assessment.
Mr Bs CMC didnt agree with our investigators view. They said that the assumption, that the 
benefits accrued prior to 1985 wouldnt have been revalued, wasnt fair. Whilst there was no 
evidence of the way that Mr Bs DB scheme was revalued, Mr Bs CMC said that there was a 
good chance that Mr Bs scheme would have offered more than the statutory requirement. 
They think that the assumption used in the calculation should reflect that. So this case has 
been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering a fair and reasonable outcome in this case, Ill start by acknowledging that 
Prudential have considered the merits of this case and upheld it. So theres no argument 
raised by either side regarding the original suitability of Mr Bs pension transfer in 1987. As 
the actual merits of Mr Bs complaint are agreed, I dont need to make any further 
determination on that point.
The question I must consider is whether the way Prudential offered to put things right was 
fair. For this, theres guidance from the FCA that tells businesses how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers. That guidance is published in FG17/9 and both parties 
have referred to this. As FG17/9 is relevant regulatory guidance intended to apply to the 
situation Mr B now finds himself in, Ive taken it into account when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in this case. And from what Ive seen Prudential followed the guidance correctly.
Neither Prudential nor Mr B have been able to provide details of the actual deferred benefits 
in the DB scheme. The advice for this transfer was provided before the requirement to 
undertake transfer analysis. So Prudential didnt produce any comparison of the benefits 
given up, and this information is no longer available. So this lack of specific scheme details 
has meant that Prudential had to use assumptions to estimate any loss. Which is in line with 
the guidance in these circumstances. I dont think this was unreasonable.
Unfortunately Prudentials first loss calculation was flawed. Ive seen it was challenged by 
Mr Bs CMC on the basis that an incorrect figure for the salary on leaving the scheme was 
used. Prudential estimated a salary figure of £12,273 a year when evidence suggested 
Mr Bs salary was £30,000. They also challenged the assumption of statutory minimum 
revaluation on the excess over the GMP, and the assumption of zero increases in payment. 
Prudential did a second redress calculation taking into consideration Mr Bs actual leaving 
salary. And this produced the loss figure of £39,699.76. I think that both sets of calculations 
allowed for increases in the pension once in payment. I acknowledge the significant part that 
Mr Bs CMC played in checking Prudentials first calculation in order to pick up these issues. 
Prudential have shown us the way that these calculations have been carried out and Im 
satisfied theyve adjusted the calculation to allow for Mr Bs leaving salary. But they havent 
amended the assumption regarding the revaluation of the excess over the GMP. And I dont 
think its reasonable to expect that they should for the reasons Ill explain.
Benefits in a DB pension scheme tend to be represented by the different components that 
make up the income. This enables the different parts to be treated according to the rules in 
place when those benefits were accrued. In the case of Mr Bs benefits, the value of his 
annual pension at the date of leaving the scheme was made up of the following: 
Pre 1988 GMP - £669.24
Excess (1) - £1,647.13
Excess (2) - £476.44
These different elements are treated differently when it comes to the way that theyre 
revalued  increased each year up to retirement age. Mr Bs pension had a GMP element which needed to be revalued in a certain way. The pension above that (excess) is treated 
differently depending on when the benefits were accrued. Prior to 1985 occupational 
pensions didnt have to revalue preserved benefits in excess of the GMP. The Social 
Security Act 1985 changed this. It meant that preserved benefits in excess of the GMP had 
to be revalued after 1 January 1985. So Excess (1) is that part of the pension accrued prior 
to 1 January 1985. Prudential revalued Mr Bs deferred benefits to pension age as follows:
Pre 1988 GMP - £1325.05
Excess (1) - £1,647.13
Excess (2)  £847.97
Because most of Mr Bs pension accrual was before 1 January 1985, excess (1) was the 
largest component of his annual pension. So I can see the impact on his pensions potential 
value at retirement would be significant if it were to be revalued. But there was no statutory 
requirement that it should have been. And Ive seen no evidence that Mr Bs DB scheme 
included revaluation prior to 1 January 1985. In cases like this  where the evidence doesnt 
exist to say how things should have worked  I need to decide what was most likely to have 
been the case. And given the statutory requirements, I cant say that its more likely than not, 
that Mr Bs pension included revaluation on the excess over GMP prior to 1 January 1985. 
So I think that the assumption Prudential used was fair.
Mr Bs CMC has suggested that a further loss calculation should be done by an independent 
provider. But Prudential have provided the calculations. And I can see that these were 
carried out by an independent actuary firm. And given that I dont think that Prudential need 
to change the assumptions used, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask for this to 
be done again. 
I understand Mr Bs disappointment in the way the initial loss calculations showed no loss. 
And the frustration in the need to argue to get to a fair outcome. But for the reasons Ive 
given I think that the offer of redress that has eventually been reached is fair. Its been paid 
to Mr B, so hes already received fair compensation.
My final decision
For the reason Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman