DRN-2933447
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
policy claim. My references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer was UKI. They were 
due to go on a package holiday tour in May 2020 but their trip was cancelled due to Covid-
19. They claimed on the policy for the trip costs.
UKI declined the claim. It said:
the policy only covered irrecoverable costs and as the package holiday provider had 
offered to defer the trip to a later date Mr and Mrs M had no financial loss, and 
the package holiday provider was responsible for providing a refund under The 
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) so if Mr 
and Mrs M didnt accept the offer to defer the trip they needed to seek a refund from 
the provider.
Mr and Mrs M complained to us. They said it wasnt fair for UKI to say they had to take the 
later trip. Theyd booked the tour for a specific date and as they didnt want to do the trip at a 
later date they wouldnt have gone and they would have incurred a financial loss. 
Mr and Mrs M also told us the package holiday provider had now refunded most of the costs 
and was going to refund the balance shortly.
Our investigator explained why he thought UKI had fairly declined the claim. On the available 
evidence the offer to defer the trip meant it was reasonable for UKI to say Mr and Mrs M had 
no financial loss. Anyway, the PTR meant that if Mr and Mrs M didnt want to accept the 
deferment of trip offer they needed to pursue the package holiday provider for a refund 
through the industry scheme alternative dispute resolution scheme. 
In response Mr and Mrs M said they had now received a full refund from the package holiday 
provider. But they still wanted an ombudsmans decision on UKIs stance that the providers 
offer to defer the trip meant they hadnt incurred a financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
I think UKI rejected the claim reasonably so I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy doesnt cover: 
any expenses (including Air Passenger Duty) that you can recover from elsewhere.
Not covering costs that can be recovered from elsewhere is a standard exclusion in most, if 
not all, travel insurance policies.
The important point in this case is that Mr and Mrs M booked a package holiday. Under the  
PTR the package holiday provider was responsible for refunding the holiday cost and Mr and 
Mrs M could recover the costs from the provider. 
If Mr and Mrs M didnt want to accept the deferred trip offer the correct course of action for 
them to take was to pursue the package holiday provider to recover a full cash refund. It was 
reasonable for UKI to tell Mr and Mrs M they needed to try to recover the costs from the 
package holiday provider rather than claim on the policy. The provider ultimately paid Mr and 
Mrs M a full cash refund in line with the PTR and they have no financial loss to claim on the 
policy. 
UKI also told Mr and Mrs M it wouldnt cover their claim as the offer of a deferred trip meant 
they had no financial loss. Generally I think thats fair unless the terms of the offer are so 
restrictive that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to accept it in the 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs M have told us that moving the date of the trip was undesirable, 
without giving any further information. They also say that moving the date of the trip  
changed the nature of the product. Those reasons arent enough reason for me to say the 
offer was too restrictive for Mr and Mrs M to use. 
On the available evidence UKI fairly considered that the package holiday providers offer to 
defer the trip wasnt so restrictive that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect Mr and 
Mrs M to accept it. So they also didnt have a financial loss when they made the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman