DRN-3965798
The complaint
Mr J has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has unfairly decided to 
start charging him for a package bank account he had previously held with no fee.
What happened
As an ex-member of NatWest staff, Mr J received a package bank account free of charge 
from NatWest. From May 2022 NatWest introduced a fee for the account.
Mr J says his account was offered to him as a free account, it was confirmed it would always 
be free and NatWest should not be allowed to introduce a fee now.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Js complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr J disagreed, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available.
 
NatWest has explained that it previously offered an inconsistent approach to the discounts it 
was offering colleagues and retired staff based in the UK. Some were receiving a discount 
on package bank account fees and others had the accounts completely free of charge. To 
offer a more consistent approach NatWest decided to change its offering so that all retired 
staff received a 50% discount those that held a fee-paying package bank account. 
Its not unusual for a bank to review the accounts it offers, including any discounts or free 
bank accounts. Its also not unusual for a bank to decide to no longer offer an account free of 
charge, or for it to increase the fees it charges. This type of decision is a commercial 
decision and considered fair.
 
However, when a decision like this is made, we expect the bank to provide reasonable 
notice of the changes, and to explain the available options.
NatWest wrote to Mr J in February 2022. The letter explained that Mr Js monthly discount 
was changing to 50% from 19 May 2022. The letter also explained the fee for the account 
would be £9 and that other fee-free account options were available.
I think this letter clearly explained the change and the options that were available to Mr J. It 
also gave Mr J time to decide if he wanted to continue with the account including the fee or 
look at other free banking options. So, I think NatWest met the obligations it had to Mr J.
 
I note that Mr J says he did not receive his letter, but I can see that it was correctly 
addressed and can see from an audit trail that the letter was sent. All that NatWest needs to 
do is to send a notification of what it was intending to do. I cant hold it responsible if the 
letter was not received.
Mr J says he was told by staff at NatWest that his package bank account was free for life 
and that he would be treated as an existing member of staff. But as Ive explained above, I 
think NatWest was entitled to change its mind on this and has made the change to Mr Js 
account fairly. So I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong. 
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr J as he clearly feels very strongly about 
this. But this decision is the final stage in our process and there is no further recourse to 
appeal or discuss the merits further within this service. That said, if Mr J would like to pursue 
his complaint via another method, he is free to not accept my decision and pursue the matter 
elsewhere if he so wishes. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman