DRN-2839697
The complaint
X complains that she was mis-sold two Advantage Gold Accounts (AGAs) in July 2003 and 
October 2010 by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
To be clear, this decision does not cover of the sale of the Advantage Private Account to X, 
as this has been resolved separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
X is clear that her complaint is that she did not know she had to pay for her AGAs and did 
not agree to do so.
X says that she did not receive the welcome packs or subsequent correspondence about 
changes to her account over the period she had them.
NatWest says that it gave X enough information about the AGAs, including the monthly cost, 
to enable her to make an informed decision. And it says it corresponded with X about the 
AGAs extensively.
I wasnt in the discussion for either of the sales so I cant know what was said within them. I 
can only look at the evidence available today.
In July 2003 the AGA cost £6 a month and benefits included travel insurance, extended 
warranty, purchase protection, discounts on mortgages, overdrafts and loans and discounts 
on other goods and services. Later the price went up in steps over many years to £15 a 
month and mobile phone insurance and car breakdown services were added to the benefits.
X had a comprehensive financial relationship with Nat West. She opened her first account 
with it in November 1991, and over the years had a series of its products, including current 
accounts, mortgages, ISAs and various savings accounts.
During the course of this relationship, I cant see that there is any evidence of a problem in 
communications between the two parties, with correspondence going to the correct address 
held on NatWests record.
NatWest has provided a copy of the information it says it would have sent in a welcome pack 
both in 2003 and in 2010, and the fact that there is a monthly charge is clear within it.
The monthly charge also appeared in all the statements X received over nearly 20 years of 
holding the account.
So, although I dont doubt Xs honest recollections, for the above reasons, in my view, I 
cannot say its more likely than not that X had the account and was unaware she was paying 
for it in the case of either sale, as I would need to if I were to uphold her complaint.
NatWests usual sales practice at the time of both sales was to provide information only and 
not advice. Ive not seen any evidence such as any assessments of Xs circumstances that 
shows NatWest recommended the AGAs. So, I think its more likely than not that they were 
non-advised sales.
So, NatWest was only required to provide enough information about the AGAs for X to make 
an informed decision. And I think it did. NatWest was trying to sell the accounts to X so I 
think it would have explained the benefits in detail. X has described her circumstances at the 
times of the sales, such as that she travelled and later had a car and mobile phone so I think 
the AGA would have been of interest to her. And later X registered a mobile phone for the 
insurance cover. I cant see that NatWest didnt tell her about any benefits or restrictions that 
might have put her off.
So, I cant see that NatWest did anything wrong in the sales of the two AGAs.
X has said she raised her complaint about the AGAs in 2011 and NatWest took no action. X 
has provided an email to NatWest from that time in which she asks about the progress of a 
complaint, but there is no information about the nature of the complaint or what product it 
relates to. NatWest has provided evidence that it has no record of any complaint about the 
AGAs until this one. As Ive said above X had a comprehensive relationship with NatWest 
holding a number of different financial products over many years and its plausible that the 
email could have been about any aspect of any of them. So, in my view, I dont think I can 
say its more likely than not that X had complained about the AGAs before this complaint.
So, in summary, although I know X will be disappointed, in my view I dont have enough 
evidence to uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Xs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman