DRN-1178236
 
The complaint
Mr F and Miss S complain that they were mis-sold critical illness cover by Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax).
What happened
Mr F and Miss S took out a Halifax Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2009 when 
they stared a new mortgage. The TMPP provided them with life cover, critical illness cover 
and also protection for their mortgage repayments.
Their complaint has focussed upon the critical illness element of the TTMP, which they feel 
was not something they would've wanted to take out if they'd been aware of the limitations of 
the cover. They cancelled this part of the cover in 2012 after Mr F experienced a serious 
health issue that wasn't covered on the policy. But theyve said more generally that they 
were pressured into buying the policy as a whole, as they were misled into believing that it 
was needed in order to guarantee a successful mortgage application. 
Halifax didn't uphold the complaint. It said the policy had not been a condition of the new 
mortgage and there was no evidence to show the adviser said it was or pressured Mr F and 
Miss S. It felt that comprehensive information about the policy had been provided that Mr F 
and Miss S had been asked to review and which drew attention to any exclusions. Overall, 
Halifax concluded that the life and the critical illness cover had been suitable 
recommendations given Mr F and Miss S' circumstances.  
The complaint was referred to this service, where our investigator reached a similar 
conclusion to Halifax. She highlighted two documents that had been sent to Mr F and
Miss S that included the wording 'Important information - This product is optional; it is not a 
condition of your mortgage'. She felt that this information hadn't been hidden away in the 
small print and so it was reasonable to conclude that Halifax had made Mr F and Miss S 
aware that they didn't have to take out the policy. 
The investigator also felt that sufficient information about how the policy worked had been 
provided. And that while she noted Mr F and Miss S' comments about the limitations of the 
critical illness cover, it was nevertheless the case that there were many circumstances in 
which a successful claim couldve been made. 
Mr F and Miss S didn't agree. They reiterated that theyd been told in meetings with 
the adviser that taking out all three types of cover was needed to guarantee success with the 
mortgage application - so they weren't told it was optional and that they could've shopped 
around. And in respect of the paperwork that had said the policy was optional, they felt they 
couldn't have questioned that in light of having been told the policy was required to 
guarantee obtaining the mortgage.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I appreciate that Mr F and Miss S have said that the adviser insisted that obtaining the 
mortgage in 2009 was conditional upon agreeing to the policy. But I have to balance 
the evidence of their recollections of the sale against the documentary evidence provided by 
Halifax. And that documentation does appear to have made it clear that the policy was 
optional and not a condition. It may be that the adviser was very persuasive about the 
benefits of taking out the cover, but Ive not seen enough to satisfy me that he unduly 
pressured Mr F and Miss S.
I accept that there is great deal of documentation provided when a mortgage, and 
associated protection, is taken out. So there's a lot to read. But the information about the 
policy being optional was contained in the 'important information' section and reiterated in 
two separate communications. I think this means that Halifax did enough to Make Mr F and 
Miss S aware of the position. 
I note what they've said about having been told the policy was a requirement, so they 
didn't feel they could question the documentation. But I think it's reasonable to have 
expected them to have at least questioned such a clear apparent contradiction between 
what they say they were told verbally and what was in the written information. And I think 
that if they had done, Halifax wouldve made it clear that they didn't need to take the policy 
out if they didn't feel they needed the cover. 
In respect of the critical illness cover, while I can appreciate it will have been disappointing 
for Mr F to discover that his particular health problem wasn't covered, I don't think that's an 
indication that the cover was of no use or benefit. There were many other illnesses that were 
covered, and they would not in all circumstances have led to death, so the payout the policy 
would've provided would have been very useful. As such, I think the recommendation of 
critical illness cover to Mr F and Miss S was suitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my finals decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman