DRN-2938918
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (Churchill) declined his 
home insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr N raised a storm claim after he noticed some of the render on the side wall of his property 
had fallen off and unfortunately caused damage to his neighbours home. 
Churchill asked a loss adjuster to consider the claim in the first instance and they arranged 
for Mr Ns property to be inspected. After this took place, Mr N was told his claim had been 
declined as there wasnt enough evidence that a storm had taken place, or that a single 
event had caused the damage. He was also told that the render had deteriorated over time, 
and gradual damage of this nature isnt covered under the terms of his policy.
Churchills claim decision remained the same after Mr N made a complaint. However, they 
offered him £100 compensation to say sorry for the delay in providing him with a copy of the 
policy booklet. 
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint and said she didnt think 
Churchill had declined the claim unreasonably based on the policy wording, and the 
available evidence. She also said the £100 compensation offer for the customer service 
issue was fair. 
Mr N didnt agree and said the damage to his wall must have been caused by storm 
conditions. He also explained that he intended on providing his own report to support his 
position. However, as a new report hasnt been provided despite several time extensions  
Ive progressed the matter and considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Churchill acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr Ns claim 
for the reasons Ill now explain. 
Mr N has raised several points in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully 
reviewed each of these, but I wont address all of them in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only damage caused 
by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the damage can 
be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim unless it is 
able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. As such, although Mr N has a home 
insurance policy, this doesnt mean every claim he attempts to make will be successful. 
As Mr N has said the damage to his property was caused by bad weather, I would 
reasonably expect Churchill to consider if a storm had taken place, as this is the closest 
insured peril that could possibly apply under the terms of the policy.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, I have to ask three questions:
 Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
 Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
 Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to conclude 
that a storm claim was declined unfairly.  
Churchill havent defined what they mean by a storm in their policy. Where an insurer 
doesnt include a definition of what a storm is in their policy wording, wed generally say that 
a storm involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. So, this is what 
Ive thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or shortly before 
the date of Mr Ns claim.
Based on my review of the independent weather reports for the location of Mr Ns property, 
Im satisfied Churchill concluded reasonably that there wasnt a storm. I say this because at 
the time of the claim and during the weeks leading up to it, the weather reports suggest there 
was some bad weather. However, the wind speed combined with the amount of rain doesnt 
suggest the conditions were sufficiently severe to constitute a storm.
As Ive been unable to answer question one affirmatively, I cant fairly conclude the damage 
Mr N reported was caused by a one-off identifiable storm event as his policy requires. As 
such, Im satisfied Churchill didnt act unreasonably by declining the claim.  
For the sake of completeness, I have also reviewed the report the loss adjuster arranged 
and the associated photographs. I appreciate Mr N strongly disagrees with the findings 
stated in the report, however, as it was completed by a suitably qualified person, I dont think 
Churchill acted unreasonably by relying on the recommendations within it. I also agree the 
damage appears to be consistent with wear and tear rather than storm damage. While its 
clear the wind may have had some impact on the rendering on Mr Ns property, I agree with 
Churchill that its likely it simply highlighted its existing weaknesses rather than directly 
causing it. As well maintained properties in this country are usually able to withstand poor 
weather conditions of this nature. 
Im also satisfied that damage for wear and tear is excluded under the terms of the policy 
and the claim isnt covered under any other section.
I appreciate Mr N has been trying to get his own report, however, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I dont think this is likely to change things. As even if his contractor says 
the damage has been caused due to bad weather - the weather reports suggest the 
conditions at the time of the claim werent sufficiently severe to constitute a storm. So, no 
cover is available under the terms of the policy. 
Finally, as Churchill have offered Mr N £100 compensation to say sorry for the delay in 
providing him with a copy of the policy booklet  I think hes been provided with a fair 
resolution to this issue. I think the amount is reasonable, as it is like what I have awarded in 
other similar complaints. Churchill should therefore now arrange for the £100 compensation 
to be paid to Mr N  if they havent already. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman