DRN-4227273
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy because American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) rejected his 
disputed transaction claim.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr L was at an exhibition and placed an order with a merchant for a smart 
toilet. He paid with his AESEL credit card.
When Mr L got home he looked at the sales invoice and couldnt see which model hed 
purchased. He tried to contact the merchant but couldnt get a response and became 
concerned that hed been scammed. He raised a disputed transaction dispute with AESEL.
AESEL applied a temporary credit to Mr Ls account and began an investigation. The 
merchant responded and disputed the claim. The merchant provided its sales invoice and its 
terms and conditions. AESEL found in favour of the merchant and the cost of the smart toilet 
was charged back to Mr Ls account.
Mr L contacted AESEL again several times over the next few months. Eventually a section 
75 claim was raised. AESEL rejected the claim. It said there was no evidence that the 
merchant had given Mr L misleading information about the goods. AESEL also said that the 
information supplied by Mr L wasnt sufficient to show that there had been a breach of 
contract.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Following the referral of the complaint to this service. AESEL reconsidered the matter and 
said that although it hadnt changed its decision on the outcome of the section 75 claim, it 
recognised that it could have handled things better. It offered £100 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr L as a result of having to contact AESEL several times.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he didnt think AESEL had made an 
error when it concluded that there wasnt sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. The investigator also said that AESELs offer of £100 was fair in 
recognition that it couldve raised the section 75 claim sooner for Mr L.
Mr L didnt agree. He said the goods still hadnt been delivered to him and that this was a 
breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
When dealing with chargebacks, banks and providers of credit need to do so within the remit 
of the rules set by the relevant card scheme.
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuers checks the 
complaint against the possible chargeback reasons to see what sort of evidence is required. 
This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful claim for the customer. Card 
issuers dont have to submit claims and they will only do so if they believe they have 
evidence that will support a chargeback claim so that it will be successful. This service 
expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to raise a chargeback if 
there is little prospect of success.
Ive looked at Mr Ls request to raise a chargeback to see whether or not AESEL acted 
reasonably when it declined the chargeback.
When AESEL raised the chargeback, the merchant disputed it and provided a copy of the 
sales invoice and the terms and conditions. The sales invoice was signed by Mr L and the 
terms and conditions stated that orders placed at exhibitions couldnt be cancelled. The 
merchant also provided evidence to show that it had written to Mr L advising him that the 
goods were ready for delivery and that it had tried to contact him to arrange a delivery date 
but had received no response.
Taking all the available information into account, Im persuaded that Mr L entered into a 
contract to purchase the goods. I dont think that AESEL acted unfairly here. The evidence 
provided by the merchant indicated that a chargeback claim would be unsuccessful.
Section 75
In certain circumstances section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that AESELs response to the claim wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and conform to the terms of 
the contract. A misrepresentation is where an untrue statement of fact is made which 
induces a consumer to enter into an agreement.
Mr L has said that theres been a breach of contract because the goods havent been 
delivered to him. He also says theres been a misrepresentation because he wasnt told what 
model hed purchased, and he doesnt know whether the 50% discount the merchant told 
him he was receiving was a genuine discount.
I have no reason to doubt Mr L when he says the goods havent been delivered. However, it 
appears that Mr L must bear some responsibility for this, because the merchant tried to 
arrange delivery, but Mr L didnt respond to arrange a date. In these circumstances I cant 
fairly say that the merchant has breached the contract by failing to deliver the goods.
The terms and conditions of the contract state that orders placed at exhibitions cant be 
cancelled. I havent seen any evidence that Mr L has attempted to cancel the contract, but 
even if he did, the terms and conditions (which appear on the reverse of the sales invoice 
signed by Mr L) are clear. So Im unable to say that the merchant has breached the contract 
by failing to cancel it.
Mr L has said that when he saw the goods at the exhibition, the merchant told him that if he 
purchased it that day, he could have a 50% discount. Mr L says there was only one model 
on display at the exhibition and when he couldnt see a model stated on the sales invoice, he 
became concerned as he didnt know which model he was going to receive.Ive thought about whether theres been a misrepresentation here. However, because Mr L 
hasnt taken delivery of the goods, it isnt known whether he will receive the same model as 
the one he viewed at the exhibition. For the same reasons, I cant say whether Mr L received 
a 50% discount. Because Mr L hasnt taken delivery of the goods yet, its not possible to say 
whether a misrepresentation was made at the point of sale.
Based on the information Ive seen, I havent seen enough evidence for me to safely 
conclude that theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. Therefore, Im 
unable to say that AESEL acted unfairly when it declined the section 75 claim.
I appreciate that Mr L has found the disputed transaction process frustrating. Looking at 
what happened, I think AESEL could have handled things better. Mr L made repeated 
attempts to contact AESEL about the chargeback and I think AESEL should have raised the 
section 75 claim sooner. This wouldnt have made any difference to the outcome of the 
claim, but it wouldve saved Mr L several weeks of distress and inconvenience caused by 
having to chase AESEL. Taking this into account, I think the offer of £100 compensation by 
AESEL is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman