DRN-2911664
The complaint
Mr L complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) have unfairly marked a 
late payment against his credit file.
What happened
Mr L says following a house move, despite having his mail redirected, he didnt receive his 
January 2020 Amex credit card statement. Mr L says as soon as he realised this, he 
contacted Amex and settled the outstanding amount and they agreed to waive his interest 
and late payment charges. Mr L says when later, he applied for a mortgage he was refused, 
as a late payment marker had been registered on his credit file by Amex. Mr L says despite 
him explaining the circumstances to Amex of his oversight and that he had been a long-
standing customer with them with a good credit history, they refused to remove the late 
payment marker. Mr L says these actions by Amex have resulted in him not being able to 
benefit from more favourable mortgage interest rate terms and hindered his ability to grow 
his business. Mr L wants Amex to remove the late payment marker from his credit file.
Amex have apologised for the time they took to issue a final response to Mr Ls complaint. 
Amex say they havent made an error here and they have an obligation to accurately report 
Mr L was late in making his January 2020 monthly payment. Amex says as a gesture of 
goodwill they have refunded the interest and charges relating to the late payment. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that Amex hadnt acted unreasonably when it registered the late payment 
marker and it was acting in line with its obligations. The investigator says Mr L did have other 
options available to him to have paid the monthly bill and it was Mr Ls responsibility to pay 
the bill on time. 
Mr L wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr L to learn he had a late 
payment marker registered on his credit file, even though he had attempted to explain the 
circumstances surrounding this to Amex. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
Amex have acted unfairly when registering the late payment marker on Mr Ls credit file. 
The first thing to say here is Mr L isnt denying he was late making his January credit card 
payment to Amex, but that there were extenuating circumstances here. Mr L also feels that 
despite the rules Amex are subject to, they should take into account his previous track 
record, as the late payment marker doesnt fairly reflect his true financial position. 
Mr L has also asked this service to consider if we think the actions Amex have taken are 
what we, and the financial services industry as a whole, would expect to see happen in 
these circumstances and if its fair that he should now be considered a poor credit risk as a 
result. 
Mr L has provided the background of his house move which he says contributed to him 
failing to make the January 2020 monthly payment. He has also made a number of other 
points and the fact I may not comment on each one individually doesnt mean I havent 
considered these - I have. But its just that I dont need to comment on each individual point 
here in order to reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable.
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have taken into 
account the fact Mr Ls complaint to Amex was raised during the Covid pandemic which 
affected both businesses and customers alike. Having done so, I cant say that this was 
material to why the payment wasnt made on time or why Amex decided to register this as a 
late payment with the credit reference agencies - I will  go on to explain what I believe the 
reasons behind this are.  
Mr L has suggested the unusual set of circumstances here shouldnt result in his credit file 
being affected and as he says, now means he is considered a poor credit risk. Mr L says the 
credit card payment to Amex, was missed in January 2020 given a move of house, which 
followed a trip overseas. Mr L has explained the late payment marker on his credit file has 
resulted in him being turned down for a more favourable mortgage product. Mr L also 
believes other credit card providers have better systems in place when payments are due to 
be paid.  
Its fair to say Mr L has been a long-standing customer of Amex and by his own admission 
has paid his monthly statement when it became due. So, I cant say he wouldnt have been 
aware, having recently used the credit card for a sizeable transaction, that he needed to 
settle the account as he always had before - after all there was a large balance due to be 
cleared here. In addition, from the information provided to this service, Mr L is registered to 
use the online service with Amex and although he hasnt made use of this service, thats not 
to say it wasnt available to him as another means to make his payments or check his 
balance. Its also worth mentioning on his monthly credit card statements it does inform Mr L 
under How you can pay your statement that direct debit, debit card, internet banking and 
via his bank are options open to him. It follows, I am satisfied Mr L was provided with 
suitable payment alternatives even if he hadnt received his monthly statement in view of his 
house move. 
That said, the centre of Mr Ls complaint sits around the fairness of the decision to register a 
late payment marker on his credit file. Mr L feels Amex shouldnt decide hes a poor credit 
risk on the back of this one late payment and his credit report doesnt reflect his true financial 
standing.  
Whats important to say here is, Amex, like all banks, have a responsibility to accurately 
report the activity on their customers accounts. From what I have seen Amex havent said 
they consider Mr L a poor credit risk, I say this as they have continued to provide Mr L with a 
sizeable level of credit facilities. Amex have also waived the late payment interest and 
charges as a gesture of goodwill, when there was no obligation for them to do so. What they 
have done is to report a payment was late, which it was, and while I can sympathise with Mr 
L given his previous track record, it is for other financial institutions to interpret this along 
with other lending criteria when coming to credit decisions. Its fair to say, on balance, I cant say with any certainty that financial institutions would use one late payment as the sole 
reason for refusing credit or to consider him a poor credit risk as he suggests. But even if 
they have, I cant say that Amex are responsible for that.
I am satisfied Amex havent made a mistake in registering the late payment and they are 
obliged to accurately report its customer activity. On balance, I cant see there have been 
any exceptional circumstances preventing Mr L making the payment to his credit card, when 
it was due, for the reasons I have already explained. Amex say that changing this on an 
individual basis doesnt fit in with treating customers fairly. While Mr L may not agree, its not 
for me to tell them they must alter their process and procedures governing how it reports late 
payments, bearing in mind no error has been made by them here. 
I know Mr L feels the credit reporting system doesnt provide any level of flexibility when 
situations like this arise but its not my role to comment on that, other than to look at each 
individual case on its own merits and I have here. 
While Mr L will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Amex. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman