DRN-2795215
The complaint
Mrs J complained that, despite her repeated requests, Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money refused to change the joint mortgage that she was paying so that it was interest only.  
What happened
Mrs J said that she and her then husband separated. She remained in the family home. He 
was unable to live there too, as a result of a non-molestation order that she obtained in 
November 2017, because of domestic abuse.
Mrs J told us that this was a joint mortgage with Mr J, but since November 2017 she had 
been the only one paying towards the mortgage. She repeatedly tried to get Virgin to change 
the mortgage to interest only, but it wouldnt. 
Mrs J said that she couldnt afford the full payments, particularly after she began a long 
period of sick leave from work on 30 May 2019. She said she was trying to sell the house, 
but her husband initially made that difficult, and then unfortunately sales had fallen through. 
Mrs J also said that she feared that the money she was paying to reduce the capital owed on 
the mortgage wouldnt be taken into account in her divorce settlement. So she continued to 
ask Virgin for an interest only mortgage. 
Mrs J was able to get a six-month payment holiday under the arrangements put in place for 
the pandemic, which covered the period between around late March 2020 and late 
September 2020. In December 2020, the house was sold. 
Virgins consistent position has been that it couldnt change this mortgage to interest only if it 
only had a request from Mrs J, and didnt also have the agreement of Mr J. But importantly, it 
also said that the agreement of Mr J wouldnt have solved the problem in this case, because 
it said that when it looked at affordability with Mrs J, she couldnt afford the interest only 
payments either. 
Mrs J said that Virgin shouldve worked with her to check that information and see if she 
could make further reductions in her outgoings. Virgin has said that it didnt feel that her 
spending was excessive, and there were no obvious areas to cut. It thought that it would be 
better for her to explore a payment plan. Mrs J didnt want this, because of the effect on both 
her credit file and her estranged husbands credit file. 
Our investigator issued more than one view in this case, revising his thoughts when he 
received further evidence from each side. He finally said that he thought this complaint 
should be upheld. He still didnt think that Virgin shouldve changed Mrs J to an interest-only 
mortgage, he said that he couldnt ignore that this still wouldnt have been affordable for her.
But our investigator said that he felt Virgin shouldve handled her case differently. It had 
treated this as a marital dispute, and Mrs J had been clear from the outset that this wasnt a 
straightforward dispute. She had shared sensitive details of domestic abuse, and provided 
supporting evidence of this from the court. So our investigator said he was disappointed with 
the standard of communication and support that Virgin offered Mrs J over a significant period 
of time. He said Virgin should pay Mrs J £250 because of that.
Virgin agreed with this, but Mrs J didnt. She said that she may have been able to alter her 
income and expenditure, and she felt that Virgins approach was shameful. She also said 
that the money offered wouldnt compensate her for the stress and time spent on this issue.
Mrs J wanted her case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mrs J has explained that she was left in an extremely difficult position when she and her 
husband separated. She has shared with Virgin, and with us, sensitive details about 
domestic abuse, and her husbands behaviour after they separated. 
But I need, in considering this case, to look at the position of both sides. And that means that 
I do also have to bear in mind that Virgin has a responsibility to both mortgagees. And the 
views and interests of both parties very clearly didnt coincide here. 
I think that Mrs J started to enquire about an interest only mortgage in late 2018, when she 
said that Mr J wasnt contributing, and that although she could meet the monthly payments, 
this left her with nothing spare. She then said that this became more urgent after she began 
an extended period of sick leave. 
Mrs J told Virgin that her income had reduced, and she said that she could no longer afford 
the monthly payments. I wouldnt have expected Virgin to agree to a permanent change to 
an income only mortgage in this case, where the two parties named on the mortgage didnt 
agree to that. But now Mrs J had told Virgin she was in financial difficulties, and the house 
was on the market, so any concession would therefore be temporary. I think that at this point 
Virgin was right to explore if Mrs J could afford an interest only mortgage. 
But when Virgin went through Mrs Js income and expenditure with her, it didnt look as if 
she could afford the payments for an interest only mortgage. 
So Virgin understood that Mrs J was asking it to make a change on the mortgage, to interest 
only, which the income she declared wouldnt support. I think thats why it has sought to 
explore alternatives. 
Virgin offered Mrs J a payment plan, but I understand that Mrs J didnt want to take that up, 
because she was concerned about the effect on her credit file. 
Mrs J says that Virgin shouldve worked with her on her income and expenditure, because 
she may have been able to trim her expenses further, to afford the interest only payments. 
Virgin said that it didnt think that her expenses were excessive, and it felt it wouldnt be 
appropriate for it to put pressure on Mrs J to find extra money. I think thats right. I know that the reduction in income that Mrs J had expected, to 50% of her salary, never 
actually took effect. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Virgin was aware of this. So I 
think Virgin acted reasonably in response to the information it had, when it refused to make a 
temporary concession to an interest only mortgage, and offered Mrs J a payment plan 
instead.
I understand that the house has now been sold, and a financial settlement has been ordered 
by the court, although Mrs J tells us she is appealing this. I dont think that it would be 
appropriate for me to interfere in how a court decides that the equity in Mrs Js former home 
should be apportioned. So I wouldnt ask Virgin to pay back any of the money that has been 
paid to it for this mortgage. 
What I need to do now is to consider how Virgin handled this problem. Our investigator 
suggested that it couldve responded more sensitively, and been more supportive. I have 
considered Virgins communications with Mrs J, and I think thats right. Virgin has accepted 
this decision, on the basis that it ought to have flagged Mrs Js account much earlier than it 
did, and that it thinks it could have provided some practical information on organisations that 
may have been able to offer her support during this difficult time. 
Mrs J said that this would in no way compensate her for the stress and time that she spent 
on this issue. I can entirely understand this, given what Mrs J has said about her 
experiences during this time. But I can only fairly ask Virgin to pay compensation for what I 
think it did wrong. And I think that a very great deal of what went wrong here was not Virgins 
fault. For those reasons, I think that the amount our investigator suggested, of £250, is an 
appropriate amount to make up for Virgins part in what I think has gone wrong here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale bank PLC trading as Virgin Money should pay Mrs J 
£250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman