DRN-2378751
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the way that QIC Europe Ltd handled a claim under their 
home insurance policy for an escape of water. References to QIC include its claims handler.
What happened
On 2 September 2019 Mr and Mrs R made a claim to QIC after their property was damaged 
by a water leak. They thought the leak had been caused by their plumber.
QIC appointed a contractor to carry out repairs. The contractor said that the property needed 
to be dried first. Mr and Mrs R werent happy that this aspect had been overlooked.
At the end of September QIC started drying the property. After the drying was supposed to 
have been completed, Mr and Mrs R obtained an independent report showing that the 
property wasnt in fact dry. That report also said the leak hadnt been permanently fixed.
QIC sent the drying company back. It agreed that the property hadnt been dried correctly. 
The property was dry by early December. Repairs started in January 2020.
Mr and Mrs R complained to QIC about unnecessary delays in drying their property, poor 
service and a failure to recover the claim costs from the plumbers insurer.
It offered them £250 compensation for the inconvenience it had caused them. It said it was 
trying to recover the claim costs from the plumbers insurer.
Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. As 
they didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Ill focus on the amount of compensation QIC should pay Mr and Mrs R for the 
shortcomings in its service to them. Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or 
punish a business  thats the job of the regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of 
inconvenience and a degree of trouble attached to them. Some more than others. But when 
this service considers how much compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and 
upset the insurer has caused to its policy holder above and beyond that which wed normally 
expect to see associated with a claim of this type.
QIC didnt handle the drying of Mr and Mrs Rs property well. In particular it didnt instruct a 
drying firm at the outset, its drying firm then signed the property off as dry when it wasnt and 
there were further delays in getting the work properly completed. Although its hard to say 
precisely, looking at a timeline I calculate that this caused a delay of about two months. And 
unfortunately this meant the works werent finished before the birth of Mr and Mrs Rs first 
child.
Its clear to me that there were also other failings on QICs part. There was poor 
communication and Mr R felt he constantly had to chase for updates. I can understand that 
this would have caused a lot of unnecessary stress. 
I recognise that QIC has acknowledged its service should have been much better and that it 
has offered a total of £250 to compensate Mr and Mrs R for the trouble and upset caused by 
its delays and poor service. Having taken all the circumstances into account I think that 
compensation of this amount is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs R but Ive thought about this services approach to awards 
made in similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs R being frustrated by the fact that their excess of £750 and the 
claim costs havent yet been recovered from their plumbers insurer when in their view the 
plumber is clearly liable for the leak due to his negligence. QIC says its doing its best but the 
third partys insurer has appointed a loss adjuster and that has slowed proceedings down. 
Under the terms of their policy QIC is entitled to seek to recover these costs if it wishes but it 
isnt under any obligation to Mr and Mrs R to do so. So I dont think QIC has treated them 
unreasonably in this respect. It appears that its trying to recover the costs and thats more 
than Mr and Mrs R are entitled to expect.
Mr and Mrs R also say that they were forced to renew their policy with QIC as they couldnt 
switch insurer while the claim was ongoing. It seems likely to me that they would have had 
difficulty changing insurers while their claim was ongoing  insurers often dont want to quote 
while a claim is still open with another insurer. But the policy was due for renewal on 29 
October 2019. So even without the delays drying the property, I think it would still have been 
tight for all the work to have been completed in time for Mr and Mrs R to get alternative 
quotes before renewal was due. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R. I appreciate theyve suffered unnecessary trouble and 
upset. But for the reasons explained above, I dont think QIC has to do any more to 
compensate them for this.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman