DRN-3345643
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about the poor service she received from Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc (D & G). Mrs F contacted it for assistance under her appliance protection 
policy when her washing machine broke.
What happened
Mrs Fs washing machine broke and she contacted D & G. It arranged for an engineer to 
inspect the machine. The engineer said the machine would need some parts replacing and 
arranged to fit those parts a week later. 
On the day of the planned second visit, the engineer was unwell and so D & G cancelled the 
appointment. Unhappy about this, Mrs F raised a complaint. She said shed had to take two 
days off work unpaid and had to visit a launderette regularly for two weeks. 
To resolve Mrs Fs complaint and prevent further delays, D & G agreed Mrs F could replace 
her machine rather than have the parts replaced. 
Mrs F remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought D 
& G had done enough to put things right  as it had covered the replacement of Mrs Fs 
machine even though it was repairable. 
Mrs F didnt agree. She says D & G only agreed to replace the machine when she 
complained. She says she lost money due to the days off work she had to take and trips to 
the launderette. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was and what a business did to put 
things right. 
Mrs F reported the fault on 17 August 2021. An engineer attended on 20 August 2021. The 
cancelled appointment for 27 August 2021 was rearranged for 3 September 2021. Mrs F 
ordered a replacement machine on 29 August 2021.
Mrs Fs policy with D & G says it will provide a replacement machine where the existing one 
cannot be repaired. Mrs Fs machine was repairable. But in this case, there was a delay due 
to the engineer not being well on the day of the planned visit to carry out the repairs. 
I think this was something outside the control of D & G. However, I think it was responsible 
for arranging the repairs to Mrs Fs machine and although there is no time limit under the 
policy for this to happen, I think D & G properly considered Mrs Fs complaint and the 
circumstances she described. 
I think its reasonable to expect to spend some of our own time when having to deal with a 
claim. Fortunately it isnt an everyday event  but I think its inevitable that there will be a 
degree of inconvenience. 
So to compensate Mrs F for the failed appointment to repair her machine, D & G told Mrs F 
she could order a replacement. If the engineer had attended on 27 August 2021 to repair 
Mrs Fs machine, it would have been necessary for Mrs F to arrange for her or somebody 
else to be home. Any compensation award this service would consider reasonable for the 
inconvenience  had the repairs taken place instead on 3 September 2021  would have 
been much lower than the cost to replace the machine, which is what D & G did.
I understand Mrs F will be disappointed. But I dont think D & G needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman