DRN-3915580
Complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclays) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against her. 
Background
In May 2021, a Barclays account in Miss Bs name received payments totalling thousands 
from a third-party. The funds were transferred on to a crypto-currency account. Shortly 
afterwards, Barclays received a notification from the bank which sent the payments stating 
that the payer of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Barclays reviewed the 
account, decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against Miss B.
Miss B eventually learned of the fraud marker after requesting a copy of her credit report and 
noticing this account was on her credit file. Miss B took this action after her account with a 
different bank was closed and she couldnt open another one. Miss B complained to 
Barclays. Barclays looked at Miss Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss B remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Bs concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss B is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered the account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss B was deliberately dishonest 
in allowing fraudulent funds to be received and knew they were, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This could include Miss B allowing someone else to use details to open an account 
in order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered the account in her name and that her 
actions suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that 
Barclays has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered the 
account in Miss Bs name in May 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only 
matter which remains in dispute here is whether Miss B was complicit in this activity. 
Miss B says she had nothing to do with what happened as the account was opened without 
her knowledge or consent and she didnt know it even existed until just before her complaint. 
She says that she suspects that someone obtained her details and identification after she 
posted a photo of her driving licence on social media when she passed her test. 
Ive thought about what Miss B has said. But Im afraid that her version of events simply isnt 
supporting by the available evidence. Not only was an application for a bank account made 
using all of Miss Bs correct details, but the documentation provided to verify her identity was 
more than what she uploaded on social media when passing her driving test. 
Furthermore, a phone with the mobile number Miss B still uses to this day, was registered on 
the account and used to access the account. Miss B hasnt provided a reasonable and 
plausible explanation as to how a fraudster would have been able to obtain so much of her 
information.
Finally, even if I were to accept that this activity took place as a result of Miss Bs details 
being obtained from her social media posts (for the avoidance of doubt I want to make it 
clear that Im not persuaded this is the case), its still unclear how an opportunistic fraudster 
would have been able to intercept the account opening documentation, most of which was 
sent in the post, needed to carry out the fraudulent activity on the account.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered an account that was in Miss Bs name. And 
given what Ive said about the identification information obtained to open the account and the  
communications required to carry out the activity being sent to Miss Bs correct address, it 
was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Miss B was 
complicit in this. 
As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im therefore not upholding Miss Bs complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss B  especially given the impact shes said 
the marker is having on her. But even though this is the case, I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman