DRN-3460050
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) blocked and closed his business account, 
without explaining why. And that it called in his Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and other business 
finance and offset the funds in his account against the outstanding balance. Mr S claims 
HSBCs actions were motivated by discrimination on the grounds of his nationality.
What happened
The background of this case is familiar to both parties, and our investigator has already set 
out the full details of Mr Ss complaint, so the below is a summary outline of the complaint.
Mr S entered into a BBL in the sum of £35,000 dated 29 May 2020, which was in addition to 
a Small Business Loan hed taken out in 2019 in the sum of £20,000. In October 2020, 
HSBC blocked Mr Ss account while it carried out a review. Mr S called to find out what was 
happening, but HSBC didnt tell him why it had blocked his account, or how long the review 
would take. When he complained, HSBC issued a final response letter simply saying it was 
complying with its UK statutory requirements and that it would contact him if it needed further 
information.
On 5 November 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr S saying it could no longer provide him banking 
services, and giving him two months notice of its intention to close his account. On 28 
November 2020, Mr S wrote to HSBC with further complaints/requests. He wanted to know 
why HSBC had blocked and closed his account, and he wanted the funds in the account to 
be transferred to an account he held with another bank. He also wanted HSBC to setup 
direct debits to pay off his BBL, Small Business Loan and credit card.
HSBC didnt comply with Mr Ss requests, so he brought his complaint to our service. After 
he did so, HSBC terminated Mr Ss BBL and offset the funds in his account against the 
balance due (£35,000). And it later called in his Small Business Loan too.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ss complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She was satisfied HSBC 
was entitled to block and close Mr Ss account. She said it was entitled to decline Mr Ss 
requests, given the account was blocked. And she was satisfied HSBC had acted in line with 
the terms of the BBL when it called in the loan and settled the debt using Mr Ss funds, and 
that it had acted fairly in respect of the Small Business Loan.
She said HSBC didnt have to tell Mr S why it had blocked and closed his account and called 
in his borrowings. And that she was satisfied HSBCs motivations were legitimate, and not 
motivated by discrimination. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings. He didnt think HSBC had acted fairly, and he 
said HSBC wasnt entitled to use the money in his account to pay off his BBL because the 
money belonged to someone else. He asked for an Ombudsman to review matters afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has set out the impact HSBCs actions had on him and his business and what he wants 
it to do to put things right. But, if Im to make an award in favour of Mr S I have to be 
persuaded that HSBC has acted unfairly or did something wrong. And, having looked at the 
evidence both parties have submitted, I dont think it has. Ill explain why. 
Account block
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they must comply. As part of these obligations, sometimes 
banks have to block accounts while they carry out a review and gather certain documents or 
information.
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to block Mr Ss 
account, and keep it blocked until the account was closed. HSBC has explained that it was 
acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account and, having reviewed 
the same, Im satisfied that it was and that it was complying with its legal and regulatory 
obligations in doing so. Because the account was blocked, it wouldnt have been appropriate 
for HSBC to reinstate direct debits or disburse funds in the account, so Im satisfied HSBC 
did nothing wrong in declining Mr Ss requests.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, Ive looked at the steps HSBC took to see if it 
acted fairly.
The terms of Mr Ss account, with which both HSBC and Mr S had to comply, say that HSBC 
can close Mr Ss account as long as it gives at least two months notice. And I can see 
HSBC gave Mr S two months notice in its letter dated 5 November 2020, so it complied with 
its contractual obligations. That being the case, I see no basis upon which I can reasonably 
make an award in Mr Ss favour.
Bounce Back Loan
After HSBC closed Mr Ss account, it told him it would be recalling the £35,000 BBL it had 
previously paid to Mr S. When it did so, HSBC offset the balance in Mr Ss account against 
the BBL, and returned the remaining balance of £9,431.05 to him on 12 February 2021. Mr S 
has said HSBC wasnt entitled to use the account balance to offset the BBL because the 
funds in his account didnt belong to him.
Ive looked at the terms of the contract, Ive listened to what Mr S has said, and Ive looked 
at the evidence HSBC submitted to explain why it was entitled to offset the account funds 
against the loan. The terms and conditions of the loan set out the circumstances in which 
HSBC can demand repayment of the loan, as well as the circumstances in which it can 
offset funds maintained in a current account against the outstanding balance. 
Having considered all of the evidence both parties have provided, Im not persuaded HSBC 
made a mistake or breached the terms of Mr Ss contract. HSBC is entitled to take such 
actions in certain circumstances, and indeed our Service would expect it to do so when 
those circumstances are present. And, on this occasion, Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to 
apply the funds in Mr Ss account against the loan debt in the manner it did. Theres nothing 
to stop it using funds in a customers account if the customer claims the funds belong to someone else. And the evidence Mr S has supplied simply shows money was transferred 
into his account by someone else and Ive seen nothing to suggest the money wasnt his.
I appreciate Mr S wants to know why HSBC blocked and closed his account and recalled the 
BBL. However, theres no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, for HSBC to disclose 
the reasons for its actions. So, I cant reasonably force it to do so if it doesnt want to. I know 
this isnt the answer Mr S was hoping for, and I appreciate the limited information Ive given 
wont answer many of the questions he had. But I hope he can take some comfort from what 
Ive said and in light of an independent third-party reviewing HSBCs actions. And the same 
rationale applies to Mr Ss Small Business Loan, so I cant say HSBC did anything wrong by 
calling it in.
Discrimination
Finally, in terms of discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a business has acted 
unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each 
particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various factors including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not HSBC has breached the Equality Act 
2010, Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other 
things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case and, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied 
that HSBCs actions were motivated only by its duty to comply with its contractual, legal and 
regulatory obligations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman