DRN-3249051
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for advice given by one of its 
agents. She wants Aviva to compensate her for repairs she had carried out which she thinks 
were unnecessary.
What happened
Mrs B held home emergency cover alongside her home insurance. This covered temporary 
repairs to roof leaks. 
In June 2021, Mrs B noticed water leaking through her roof. She contacted Aviva and 
submitted a claim. I
Aviva sent an engineer to her home. The engineer carried out a temporary repair to the roof 
and advised Mrs B that she would need a permanent repair to the flashing. 
Mrs B engaged a contractor to replace the flashing in July 2021.
Shortly after this repair, Mrs B noticed that the leak was continuing, in the same area. She 
contacted Aviva and was advised to contact the roofing contractor who had carried out the 
repair. 
Mrs B contacted the roofing contractor, who inspected the roof and found a gap around the 
soil pipe, which was letting water into the roof space. He then repaired this and the leak 
resolved. 
Mrs B complained to Aviva. She felt that she had been wrongly advised to replace the 
flashing and that this advice had caused her to incur unnecessary expense. 
Aviva responded to her complaint in August 2021. Aviva did not accept that it had wrongly 
advised Mrs B and did not uphold her complaint. 
Mrs B was not happy with this and contacted us. 
 One of our investigators looked into this matter and did not uphold the complaint. They 
considered that there was no evidence that the advice to replace the flashing was wrong 
advice. Mrs B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence, including the information provided by Mrs Bs roofing 
contractor about the source of water ingress which he later identified. 
I understand Mrs Bs upset that she feels that the flashing was not the issue which was 
causing the leak and that she thinks that she has paid for an unnecessary repair, in addition 
to the required repairs. 
I do, however, agree with the investigators assessment. Aviva attended in response to her 
claim and carried out a temporary repair which appears to have been effective. The engineer 
advised that the flashing required replacement, based on his expert view. 
As previously set out, the fact that Mrs Bs roofing contractor subsequently identified a 
different issue does not mean that the advice to replace the flashing was bad advice. 
I also agree with the investigators comment that the evidence suggests that the flashing did 
need replacement as the roofing contractor agreed to do this and, despite working closely 
with the flashing on the roof, did not advise Mrs B that it was not necessary to replace it. 
Overall, I think that Aviva has carried out the service that it was required to provide and has 
done so reasonably. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I 
appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mrs B, but I hope it explains clearly why I have 
reached this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint and do not ask Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman