DRN-4378211
The complaint
Mrs C complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly granted her credit she couldnt afford to
repay.
What happened
MBNA opened a credit card account for Mrs C in July 2018. This type of credit was an open-
ended or running account facility and the credit limit was £2,800. MBNA increased Mrs Cs
credit limit to £4,800 in October 2019 and to £6,300 in March 2022.
Mrs C said that MBNA should never have allowed her to open an account because she was
having difficulty with her finances at the time. She said MBNA would have found out she was
in a debt management plan (DMP) had it carried out proper checks before lending to her.
Mrs C also said that MBNA was irresponsible to allow her to transfer a balance of £4,500
from another credit card having not used the account for some time (Mrs C transferred a
balance of around £4,450 from another card in July 2022). She said that proper checks at
this time would have shown that she had been paying the minimum amount on all her credit
cards and been taking money transfers from one to pay another.
MBNA said that Mrs C passed all its checks which were based on information she provided,
information from the credit reference agencies and an estimation of her living costs based on
national statistics. MBNA said it didnt know about Mrs Cs financial problems and wouldnt
have stopped her using her card for purchases or transfers to other card providers. It also
said that it wouldnt automatically close the account if she paid off an existing balance unless
she requested it. MBNA didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C referred her complaint to us. She said that in order to resolve it she would like MBNA
to refund any interest and fees associated with the account and waive the balance on the
account as a good will gesture. The balance on the account in May 2023 was just over
£5,500.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. They found that MBNA
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit agreement or by increasing the 
credit limit. Mrs C didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for her complaint to 
come to an ombudsman to review.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 September 2023 explaining why I planned to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint in part. I shared the information Id relied on and allowed some time for 
comments or new information from either party. Mrs C said she had no new information to 
provide and MBNA said it accepted my provisional decision. This is my final decision on the 
matter and will be legally binding on both parties on Mrs Cs acceptance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything and having no new information to review, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out my reasoning and conclusions again in 
this final decision. 
As before, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set 
out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as MBNA, need to abide 
by. MBNA will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our 
website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise and refer to them 
where appropriate.
Before entering into a credit agreement or significantly increasing the credit limit, MBNA
needed to check that Mrs C could afford to meet her repayments out of her usual means,
within a reasonable period of time, without having to borrow further and without experiencing
financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The regulations stated that a lender
should not use the assumption of the amount necessary to make only the minimum payment
each month and should consider the customers ability to repay the maximum amount of
credit available under the agreement within a reasonable period of time. The checks needed
to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for example) and to
Mrs Cs circumstances.
My main considerations are did MBNA carry out proportionate checks when it opened the
account for Mrs C and later increased her credit limit? What would such checks have shown
and did MBNA make fair lending decisions? Did it treat Mrs C unfairly in any other way?
Before opening the account in 2018 MBNA asked Mrs C about her income which she said 
was £14,000 a year, in other words around £1,080 net a month. It recorded that she had a
mortgage and total credit card balances of just over £3,600, and that there was no adverse
information on her credit file such as county court judgements or delinquency. I dont know
what information MBNA knew at this time about Mrs Cs monthly costs. Given her income
and her existing debts, I think MBNA ought to have gathered a good understanding of
Mrs Cs other expenses before agreeing a credit limit of £2,800 in order to check she would
be able to manage the credit sustainably and repay it within a reasonable period of time.
Mrs C told us that she was in a joint DMP with a national debt charity from 2009 to October
2022 and the monthly payments were £230. As this plan was to repay debts built up before
2009, I dont think its likely these debts would still be showing on Mrs Cs credit file in 2018. I
understand the payments were being made through Mrs Cs joint bank account and so,
altogether, I dont think its likely MBNA would have found out about the DMP even had it 
looked into Mrs Cs finances in more depth.
I havent seen Mrs Cs full credit file or her bank statements from that time so I dont have
any more information about her living costs. I cant reasonably find that further information
about Mrs Cs finances would have led MBNA to decline to lend to her at that time and so I
havent found that MBNA was irresponsible to offer her the account.
Mrs C had an introductory offer of 0% on balance transfers for the first 18 months after
opening the account and within a few days she transferred balances to the card totalling just
over £2,500. In March 2019 Mrs C made a money transfer from the card of £150. By the
time the interest free period for balance transfers ended in January 2020 she had repaid the
balance, albeit this included a lump sum payment of £1,200. Mrs C was charged £83 in
transfer fees and £5 in interest over this time. MBNA increased Mrs Cs credit limit to £4,800 in October 2019. It recorded Mrs Cs income 
from that time as £1,075 a month and her expenses as £996 based on what Mrs C said 
about her income, a check on her credit file and an estimation of her usual living costs. Her 
expenses included housing costs of £385, unsecured debt repayments of £214 and living 
costs of £397. This left Mrs C with £79 to meet her card repayments and any other living 
costs that MBNA hadnt taken into account or any unexpected costs.
Even if MBNA charged no interest on this amount, I think its more likely than not that Mrs C
would have difficulty repaying this level of credit within a reasonable period of time while
meeting all her other expenses. I think MBNA should have recognised this from its checks
and shouldnt have increased Mrs Cs credit limit on this occasion.
MBNA increased Mrs Cs credit limit to £6,300 in March 2022. It recorded Mrs Cs income as
£1,382 a month and her expenses as £1,243. These included housing costs of £588,
unsecured debt repayments of £197 and living costs of £458. This left Mrs C with £139 to
meet her card repayments and any other costs that MBNA hadnt taken into account. As
before, I dont think MBNA could consider that this left Mrs C with enough to be able to repay
this level of credit within a reasonable period of time while meeting all her other expenses. I
dont MBNA should have increased Mrs Cs credit limit on this occasion either.
The card had a zero balance from January 2020 until Mrs C transferred a balance of around
£4,450 from another card in July 2022. This balance was transferred with a promotional
interest rate of 0% for 18 months. Mrs C was charged £156 for this balance transfer. I note
that she made the minimum repayment (or close to it) from this point onwards until she
missed a payment in March 2023.
Mrs C said that MBNA should not have allowed her to transfer such an amount as her
account hadnt been in use for some time. MBNA said that it wouldnt automatically close a
credit card due to inactivity at that time, nor did Mrs C request that the account be closed.
From the information I have I dont think MBNA acted outside the terms and conditions of the
account or treated Mrs C unfairly when it allowed her to use her account in July 2022
following a period of inactivity. However, as Ive found above, I didnt think it should have
increased the credit limit on the account in 2019 or 2022.
In November 2022 Mrs C transferred another £1,000 balance to her account and made two
money transfers from the account amounting to £350. Mrs C was charged £50 for the
balance transfer and £17.50 in money transfer fees.
Mrs C complained to MBNA about her account in March 2023. Shortly after this, MBNA
decreased the credit limit to £6,000 and stopped charging interest on the money transfers. It
confirmed to us recently that it had stopped charging interest on the account and that the
total interest charged since account opening was £28 along with £306 in balance and money
transfer fees.
Putting things right
Mrs C said that in order to resolve her complaint she would like MBNA to waive the 
outstanding balance on the account. MBNA can of course consider this but I am not directing 
it to do so. This is because Mrs C had the benefit of the money she borrowed and I think its 
fair that she repays this. However, I dont think its fair for MBNA to be able to charge any 
interest or fees on balances above the original credit limit of £2,800. As mentioned above, 
my understanding is that there is a large balance outstanding on the account. 
In summary, MBNA should now:Waive any interest or charges owing on balances above £2,800;
Refund to Mrs Cs account any interest, fees or charges she paid on balances above 
£2,800;
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Cs credit file in relation to balances 
above £2,800, once the account is settled;
Treat Mrs C fairly, with forbearance and due consideration regarding her outstanding 
balance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Mrs Cs complaint in part about MBNA Limited 
and it needs to put things right for her as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman