DRN-3766423
The complaint
Mr B and Ms D complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly applied an early 
repayment charge (ERC) when they remortgaged to another lender.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr B and Ms D contacted Halifax to discuss their fixed rate mortgage product 
which was due to expire in September 2022. They say they were informed they could 
complete a product transfer three months before the expiry of the existing product without 
incurring an ERC. Mr B and Ms D say based on this information they obtained a mortgage 
from another lender and redeemed their mortgage with Halifax inside three months of its 
product expiry. When the mortgage with Halifax was redeemed, it applied an ERC.
Mr B and Ms D complained to Halifax in July 2022. It investigated the complaint and didnt 
uphold it. It said the terms of not incurring an ERC when completing a product transfer within 
three months of its expiry only relate to product transfers with Halifax; and not when 
borrowing with another lender and redeeming the mortgage with Halifax. It said it couldnt 
locate the call Mr B and Ms D had with it in March 2022, and as such couldnt be satisfied 
what had been discussed. But it concluded that the ERC had been fairly applied in line with 
the terms of Mr B and Ms Ds mortgage. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said as Halifax had been 
unable to locate and provide our service with the call, he was unable to know exactly what 
had been said. Because of this he didnt feel there was sufficient evidence for him to safely 
conclude Halifax had given incorrect or misleading information. And that ultimately Halifax 
had applied the ERC in line with the terms and conditions of Mr B and Ms Ds mortgage. 
Mr B and Ms D didnt agree with our investigators outcome. In summary, they maintained 
that they were given the wrong information during the call in March 2022. They say this is 
supported by the fact they waited to remortgage until they were within three months of their 
Halifax product expiring; and that otherwise they would have looked to remortgage shortly 
after the call in March 2022 when rates were lower, or after the ERC period with Halifax 
ended to avoid incurring the charge.
Mr B and Ms D asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Ms D say that during a phone call with Halifax in March 2022 they were led to 
believe they could exit their mortgage product and remortgage with another lender within 
three months of its expiry without incurring an ERC. Although Halifax have said within its 
final response that it is unable to locate the call, Mr B and Ms D have asked our service to 
obtain this call and review it as part of our investigation.  
Halifax has said its been unable to locate the call from March 2022 on its systems. Mr B and 
Ms D have provided itemised billing which confirms a phone call to a number associated with 
Halifax was made on 11 March 2022. Halifax has provided our service with details of what it 
has searched to attempt to locate this call; and I consider, based on the information provided 
to this service by Mr B and Ms D, that it has searched under the correct number for the 
customer. So, as Halifax hasnt been able to provide a copy of this call, or any contact notes 
detailing that a call took place and what was said, Ive gone on to decide what, on balance, I 
consider more likely happened on the call. 
Mr B and Ms D have said the conversation was about when they could move to a new deal 
and that the Halifax representative neglected to be specific that the concession to transfer 
to a new product within three months of the expiry of their existing product had to be with 
Halifax.
It also appears, on balance, from Mr B and Ms Ds testimony, that they werent specific in the 
call in March 2022 that they were, or may be looking to, move lenders  as theyve not said 
this within their testimony. 
Halifax has provided this service with details of its future dated product transfer process (for 
internal product transfers to another Halifax product). It says that no advice or 
recommendation is given in relation to this  it only provides information and its for the 
customer to proceed on the information provided. But that a new product can be applied for 
up to three months in advance of an existing product expiring. 
Halifax has also provided this service with the details of its policy when an ERC may be 
waived in part or full. This policy provides for situations where an ERC may not be payable in 
part or full if a mortgage was to be redeemed within the ERC period. But redeeming a 
mortgage with Halifax three months prior to a product expiring and remortgaging with 
another lender is not one of these provisions. 
So, I consider it more likely, on balance, that based on what was likely discussed and the 
terminology used, the Halifax representative reasonably proceeded to give Mr B and Ms D 
information about the ERC being waived on the basis that this was a conversation about a 
product transfer with Halifax, rather than Mr B and Ms D looking to redeem their mortgage 
with Halifax and remortgage to another lender. And for this reason, the representative didnt 
provide information about when an ERC would be due if remortgaging to another lender, as 
they reasonably didnt consider this relevant in the circumstances. 
While I consider it would have been helpful for the Halifax representative to have covered all 
scenarios, I cant fairly conclude Halifax made a mistake by not telling Mr B and Ms D this 
information, based on what Ive found above. As such, I cant safely conclude Halifax made 
an error during the call in March 2022. 
As Ive found Halifax didnt make an error during the call in March 2022, Ive gone on to 
consider if it reasonably applied the ERC in line with the conditions of Mr B and Ms Ds 
mortgage.
Im satisfied Halifax reasonably made Mr B and Ms D aware of the terms of the mortgage 
product approved in June 2019. I say this because Ive seen Halifax provided Mr B and Ms D 
with the mortgage offer and illustration dated June 2019. 
Within this document section eight is titled Early repayment and details when an ERC 
would be due. Within this section it confirms 1.00% of the amount repaid on or before 
30/09/2022. Therefore, I consider Halifax reasonably made Mr B and Ms D aware of the ERC on their 
mortgage and when it would be applicable; so, in any event the ERC would always have 
been payable in this situation as per the mortgage terms. And as Mr B and Ms D redeemed 
their mortgage before September 2022, Im satisfied the ERC was fairly applied.
As Ive found Halifax didnt make an error in the call in March 2022; and fairly applied the 
ERC when Mr B and Ms D redeemed their mortgage, Im not recommending it needs to take 
any further action in resolution of this complaint.
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mr B and Ms D, but I hope it clearly sets out the 
reason for this outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Ds 
complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman