DRN-2255458
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
credit card in December 2008. 
Miss H, who is represented by a third party, says National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss H says the PPI was added without her knowledge and it wasnt explained to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss H got the information she needed to decide for 
herself if it was right for her.
I think NatWest made it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out. I say this taking into account that although Miss H says she cant remember 
how the sale happened  and NatWest has suggested it happened at a branch - from what 
Ive seen it looks more likely that Miss H decided to buy the policy when she applied for the 
card online. I dont have a copy of the online application she wouldve completed at the time 
but Ive seen evidence from NatWest that suggests her card application was submitted this 
way.
 
NatWest has also given us a copy of the credit agreement it sent her following her 
application. I can see from this that, in addition to signing show she wanted the card, Miss H 
also ticked a box and signed separately to show she wanted PPI. So although I cant see if 
she applied for PPI when she made the online application, I can see that she confirmed she 
wanted PPI when she received the credit agreement. I think on balance Miss H had the 
opportunity to think  her about her card application and also review it later. So I think its 
likely she decided at the time she applied for the card that she also wanted to have PPI with 
her card. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong.
I say this having taken into account that Miss H told us she was entitled to some 
discretionary sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness. 
Given what we know about her role, I think this would be unlikely to be for more than 
6 months. But the PPI would pay out in addition those benefits, for up to 12 months if she 
couldnt work due to accident or sickness or if she were to lose her job. It also meant she 
wouldnt have to rely on other sources of funding, such as savings, to help out. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Miss H off taking out the cover.
The PPI also looks like it was affordable. Ive seen that Miss Hs monthly credit card 
statements would also have shown any PPI charges shed need to pay each month. I 
think if she was concerned about these charges she could have asked NatWest about 
them. So although I dont doubt Miss Hs recollections are genuinely held, I think its more 
likely shed agreed to have the PPI with her new card.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So NatWest doesnt need to refund 
everything Miss H paid for it. But NatWest has already offered to give Miss H back some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. From what Ive seen, this 
has now been paid to Miss H. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Ive seen this has already 
been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman