DRN-1790827
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice he was given by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K) Limited (Sun Life) to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plan. He believes he would have accrued greater pension provision if 
hed chosen the in-house alternatives, in particular the 'added years' option.
What happened
Mr E joined the National Health Service (NHS) pension scheme in 1994. In 1995, he met 
with a representative from Sun Life and was advised to take out a FSAVC plan for £33.33 
per month to increase his overall retirement provision and enable him to retire early (age 55). 
Mr E met with Sun Life again in early 1996 and agreed to increase his contribution level. The 
plan did include a yearly increase in premiums in line with the RPI. 
Mr E stopped his contributions between November 2004 and May 2005 but then resumed 
payments until, following conversations with colleagues about his situation, he began to think 
hed been given unsuitable advice and ceased all contributions in April 2019. 
In July 2019 Mr Es financial adviser complained on his behalf about the advice. He said Sun 
Life had a duty to comply with the rules in place at the time which he thought included 
explaining that in-house AVCs were likely to provide better value for money. He said Mr E 
would have chosen the in-house option if he'd been given all the necessary information.  
Sun Life said that when he was advised to pay into the FSAVC Mr E was given 
documentation to explain how the plan worked. It also said the representative would have 
discussed the in-house AVC option but gave a positive recommendation for FSAVC. It said 
the adviser wasnt obliged to discuss the difference in charges. Sun Life also believed that 
the fund recommended was suitable, given the relatively long investment horizon, and that it 
gave Mr E the flexibility to retire at age 55 which wasnt possible with the AVC.
But Mr E didnt agree with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She thought Mr Es complaint should be upheld. She 
thought Mr E would, if properly directed, have taken out the in-house AVCs and didnt think 
Sun Life had done enough to make Mr E aware of the costs difference between the various 
alternatives.
Sun Life didnt agree. It said it believed it had met the pre Regulatory Update (RU) 20 
compliance requirements. It said, under the requirements, it thought its representative 
needed to understand and discuss the in-house alternatives  but didnt believe he should 
have suggested that those alternatives might offer better value for money. Sun Life further 
thought it would have been against the regulations at the time to recommend another firms 
products which it assumed the in-house AVCs to be. 
It also asked for evidence that RU20, which was published after Sun Lifes advice, wasnt a 
new requirement and applied retrospectively. Mr E accepted our findings about the sale being non-complaint. But his adviser then 
suggested that Mr Es circumstances meant it was likely he would have chosen the added 
years option to make up the shortfall in his NHS pension. He said the likelihood of Mr E 
having a long career in the NHS - with career progression - and the fact that hed set his 
FSAVC payments to increase each year in line with RPI, suggested added years would 
have been more suited to his circumstances.
The investigator said she understood Sun Lifes view that the advice was given pre RU20 
guidance and that its representative had done what was required of him at that time. But she 
confirmed that she had followed our established approach to such complaints. However, she 
didnt agree with Mr E's adviser that Mr E would have chosen the added years option 
instead of in-house AVCs. She said she didnt think the extent of his future career would 
have been known at the time of the advice and felt that he would most likely have chosen 
the AVC option, even if hed approached the NHS to find out about all the options available. 
So as no resolution could be found the complaint's been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Sun Life says that the requirement  to explain that AVCs might provide better value for 
money than FSAVC's only came about from the RU20  guidance in 1996, which post-dates 
the advice it gave Mr E. So it thinks it only needed to make Mr E aware of the different 
schemes  which it says its representative did. 
Weve set out our approach to this particular point on our website and it follows the 
regulator's position over the 1994 nationwide pensions' review, which was before Sun Life's 
advice to Mr E. But first of all Id like to set out the position of previous regulators and what 
they said about the rules relating to the sale of FSAVCs and the in-house options. 
Looking back to 1988 the then regulator LAUTRO stated that company representatives 
should:
Have regards to the consumers financial position generally and to any rights they 
may have under an occupational pension scheme.
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question. 
 
So they should have:
Pointed out that AVCs were available.
Explained that AVCs were likely to provide better value for money 
Recommended considering the AVC. 
 
 
 
This was particularly important to satisfy the requirement to have regards to the consumers 
financial position generally, as Mr E should have been made aware about a lower cost alternative which would have had a direct effect on his financial position. 
In 1994 the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) took over the regulation and adopted the 
existing LAUTRO rules, although it clarified this in May 1996 through RU20 which said that 
company representatives should:
Draw the consumers attention to the AVC plan.
Discuss the generic differences between the FSAVC and AVC.
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the AVC 
options.
 
This provided clarification but I dont think it represented new guidance. I think the existing 
guidance required advisers to have regard for consumers rights within an occupational 
pension scheme, which would have included understanding that AVCs generally had lower 
charges than FSAVCs and therefore represented better value for money. As I said 
previously the regulator had included a consideration of the costs of FSAVCs against AVCs 
within its guidance around reviewing past sales in the pension review of 1994, so I think its 
right to include this as a consideration when looking at Sun Lifes recommendations from 
1995 and 1996. 
So I dont agree with Sun Lifes point that it's representative did act within the regulator's pre 
RU20 guidance in 1995. Under the original regulations Sun Life's representative needed to 
do more than simply make Mr E aware of the existence of in-house AVCs. He needed to 
ensure that Mr E was aware of the costs involved and suggest that Mr E approached his 
employer to find out more about the in-house options. 
Ive then gone on to consider the suitability of Sun Life's advice. Mr E was 28 when he met 
with Sun Life's representative and had been a member of the NHS pension scheme for 
around a year. So, even if he planned to retire at age 60, he wouldnt been able to achieve 
the maximum permissible pension. I think it was appropriate for Sun Life to discuss how to 
make up that potential shortfall with Mr E, and Im mindful of the regulations which 
wouldn't allow company representatives to make recommendations from outside their own 
range of products. 
But Im also mindful  as Ive previously explained  of Sun Lifes requirement to make Mr E 
aware of AVCs and to discuss the difference in costs. So Ive looked carefully at the reasons 
why letter that Sun Life issued to Mr E to confirm its advice. The letter did talk about the in-
house AVC option but didn't compare the charges and seemed to present the FSAVC to Mr 
E as a more favourable option. The letter said we have fully discussed the differences 
between AVCs and FSAVCs and as additional voluntary contributions to your company 
pension scheme will only provide you with added years you will not fully benefit if you make 
contributions for this purpose. 
I don't think this statement was accurate or representative of the actual situation but most of 
all it didn't provide Mr E with any reason to consider alternatives. I don't think Mr E was given 
sufficient information to enable him to make an informed decision, so I dont think I can 
safely say the company representative satisfied the regulations in place at the time even 
prior to the later clarification of the guidance.
 
Sun Life says its reasons why letter showed that Mr E was made aware of the generic 
differences between the FSAVC and the in-house options. It says these generic differences 
would have included making Mr E aware of using the 'added years' facility as well as AVCs and also that the charges would be lower on the in-house options. It also enclosed a copy of 
a leaflet which showed a comparison of the various options, which it said the 
representative would have used in discussions with Mr E.
I have seen a copy of the comparison of in-house AVCs and FSAVCs leaflet, although the 
leaflet included a declaration that should have been signed by both the representative and 
Mr E to confirm that the differences had been discussed. I haven't been provided with a 
signed copy of the leaflet, so I cant safely say that content of the leaflet was discussed 
although I have no reason to dispute that the representative would have had the leaflet with 
him as part of the documentation he should have issued to Mr E. 
But, in any case Im still of the view that Sun Life didnt do enough to make Mr E aware of 
the benefits of the in-house options. I say that because I think the sale would have been 
driven by cost and the recommendation for a FSAVC would need to be because of 
particularly compelling reasons  which Ive not been satisfied applied here.
Ive also considered Mr Es suggestion that, given the choice at the time, he would have 
chosen the in-house added years option to improve his pension provision. I can understand 
why, given the benefit of hindsight, Mr E now thinks he would have chosen that course of 
action. But Ive taken into account what was known at the time and what could safely be 
assumed might happen in the future. Mr E was likely to achieve around 32 years' service in 
the NHS pension scheme at the time of the advice. It's not possible to know now exactly how 
many years Mr E would have been looking to make up if he'd chosen the 'added years' 
option, but its clear that Sun Life recorded one of his objectives as retiring at age 55. 
'Added years' was known to be a more expensive option than AVC's and required 
committing a fixed sum of salary in order to "buy back" a particular number of years. 
Considering Mr E's objectives, the number of years he needed to make up and the relatively 
low level of contributions he first made to the FSAVC, I'm not persuaded he would have 
chosen the 'added years' alternative.
In addition, Mr E was noted on the FSAVC application form as being single - so I don't think 
the additional spouses and dependents benefits, which would have contributed to the overall 
'added years' costs, would have been so important to him at that time. I understand that 
subsequently Mr E enjoyed a good career and salary progression which I accept would have 
meant that, in hindsight, added years might have been a better alternative. But it wasn't 
possible to have known how Mr E's career would develop in 1995, and for the other reasons 
that I've given I'm not persuaded that he would have chosen the more expensive option at 
the time. I think given the correct information Mr E would have chosen the in-house AVC 
option.
Putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) Limited should undertake a redress 
calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the 
amendment below to take into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index 
isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, business X should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 
and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldn't be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
I uphold Mr E's complaint against Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman