DRN-3991215
The complaint
Mr and Ms B complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly 
withdrawn its offer to pay an unsatisfied judgment under her contents insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2017, Ms B suffered a personal injury whilst receiving a beauty treatment. So she took 
legal action against the beautician and the salon. 
RSA initially said the contents insurance policy would cover this claim under the liability of 
others section if the defendants failed to satisfy an award for damages and legal costs. 
Ms B went on to win her case and was awarded damages and costs, but the defendant 
failed to pay. When she reverted back to RSA, it said it had made a mistake as this claim 
didnt meet the requirements of the section of cover. It offered £100 compensation to put 
things right.
Ms B says RSA has made a negligent misrepresentation, and as a result shes suffered 
severe monetary loss. She made a complaint, which she brought to our service  but our 
investigator didnt uphold it as she was satisfied RSAs offer of compensation was fair. Ms B 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me and I issued the following provisional 
decision.
My provisional decision
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy says that it will cover the following:
Liability of others.
We will pay the unpaid amount of any damages and costs awarded to you for 
compensation for bodily injury or damage to property. 
This compensation must have been awarded by a court in the United Kingdom, the 
Isle of Man or the Channel Islands. 
We will pay the amount if:
a) you have not received full payment within three months of the date of the 
award; and
b) the bodily injury or damage happened in the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man 
or the Channel Islands; and
c) you would have had a valid claim under section 24 of this policy if the award 
had been made against you; and
d) there is not going to be an appeal.
When RSA first considered the claim, it confirmed that cover would be available under this 
section if the defendants failed to pay any award made by the court. But on review, it found 
that the claim didnt meet the requirements of point C above. 
Section 24 of the policy says:
Occupiers and personal liability.
We will pay all amounts you or a member of your family legally have to pay for 
causing:
accidental death or injury; or
accidental loss of or damage to property;
which is caused by an accident happening during the period of insurance and arising:
from your occupation (but not ownership) of the buildings; or 
in a private role not connected with owning the buildings.
What is not covered
Injury or damage arising fromyour business, trade, profession or employment.
RSA say if this claim was reversed and was being pursued against Ms B as the beautician 
who had injured a customer during a beauty treatment, it wouldnt be covered under section 
24. This is because there isnt cover for claims arising from Ms Bs business or employment. 
As such, there is no cover under section 27 (liability of others).
Im satisfied the claim doesnt fall within the policy cover. So RSA has made an error when it 
initially said it was. 
I must be clear that were not the regulators and it isnt my role to fine or punish a business. 
In addition, were not the courts but an informal alternative. Where a business has done 
something wrong or unfair, our role is to ensure the business puts the customer back in the 
position they wouldve been in had everything been done correctly. And if the wrongdoing 
has had an impact on the customer, we would expect the business to compensate them. 
So to do this, I have to determine what position Ms B wouldve been in had RSA told her 
from the outset that there was no cover under the policy. 
Ms B tells us on her complaint form that RSA informed her that she was covered at the start 
of her claim when shed instructed her solicitors. But RSA say it was first notified of the claim 
in October 2021, by which time the claim was already ongoing in court. 
The timing of when this error occurred makes a big difference to this complaint. I say this 
because if RSA had incorrectly informed Ms B that she was covered before she initiated 
legal proceedings against the beautician, this may have impacted her decision to proceed 
with the case and incur costs of the basis that the policy would cover an unsatisfied 
judgment.
So Ive carefully looked at the evidence available. But I cant see any correspondence with 
RSA regarding this claim until 2021, by which time the legal proceedings were underway. So 
I cant fairly say that RSAs error had any impact on Ms Bs case or her decision to pursue it. 
So even if RSA had declined the claim correctly at the first opportunity, Ms B would be in the 
same position she is now. I do think RSA should compensate Ms B for failing to manage her expectations as theres no 
doubt she wouldve been disappointed to find out she wasnt covered for her claim after all. 
And I think the offer by RSA of £100 is fair in the circumstances. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party had any further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman