DRN-3587028
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the service she received from BUPA Insurance Limited when she 
wanted to make a claim on her private medical insurance policy. Miss S is represented but 
Ill refer to Miss S throughout my decision. 
What happened
Miss S has a private medical insurance policy with BUPA. Shes unhappy that she wasnt 
able to access BUPA services following her admission to hospital in September 2020. She 
was diagnosed with a broken hip and wanted to transfer to a BUPA facility. A relative of 
Miss S contacted BUPA and was provided with information about the hospitals in the area 
and the process for a transfer. Miss S says that she was unable to access private care and 
no hospitals were available. She also said that it would have cost £500 for the NHS to 
transfer her but her policy would have only paid £50. As a result, shed like a full refund of 
the premiums for the 2020/2021 policy year. 
Miss S made a complaint to BUPA. In their final response letter they acknowledged that the 
circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic had meant that some treatments were 
postponed and some customers havent been able to access some hospital services. They 
explained theyd offered Miss S three months free cover and also a rebate, which it was 
intending to offer to customers following an independent review. Miss S remained unhappy 
and made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
that BUPA had fairly applied the policy terms and conditions. And she noted BUPA had 
offered to waive three months of premiums in the next policy year as well as offering a 
rebate of premiums, following an independent review. She also explained that the impact of 
Covid-19 on private medical facilities was outside of BUPAs control as the government 
requestioned private facilities for use by the NHS. Miss S had also received a rebate of 
around £500 since referring the complaint to our service and once the independent review 
was completed.  
Miss S didnt agree. In summary, she says that BUPA offered a service that wasnt fulfilled 
and BUPA didnt respond to their concerns until February 2021. She said that the product 
wasnt delivered and so no payment should be made. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of Miss Ss circumstances as I understand that, following the break 
to her hip, its had a long-term impact on her health. I have a lot of empathy with the 
circumstances shes described.
However, Im not upholding this complaint. Ive taken into account all of the comments and 
points raised by Miss S, but Ill focus on those that I think are central to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Access to treatment and ambulance fees 
Its unfortunate that Miss S couldnt be transferred to the private hospital when she needed 
to access private treatment. But I dont think this is as a result of circumstances within 
BUPAs control.  
In March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a global pandemic. 
Within a few weeks the UK had gone into what is commonly referred to as lockdown. Due 
to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19, and the pressure 
this was placing on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately funded treatment 
were utilised by the NHS. This affected BUPAs ability to provide a full range of services, and 
access to private medical facilities. I think this was outside of BUPAs control. 
It's unfortunate that Miss S couldnt receive the treatment she wanted at the relevant time. 
But BUPA did put in place other benefits to support members at the time, for example, 
remote consultations and treatments. And the policy continued to offer Miss S other benefits 
and cover. So, Im satisfied the policy remained of benefit to Miss S during the policy year. 
Im not persuaded the contract was breached in the manner which Miss S suggests. 
Ive also taken into account that Miss Ss relative spoke to BUPA about the transfer. There 
was no immediate follow-up contact to explain the difficulties Miss S was facing in arranging 
access to treatment. I appreciate that Miss S was no doubt in pain and focusing on her 
recovery. But I dont think BUPA had an opportunity to help and support Miss S with finding 
alternative facilities as they werent aware that shed been unable to get a bed at the 
hospitals theyd mentioned or that there were ongoing issues. Im sorry to hear that Miss S 
was in a lot of pain and didnt have a positive experience of her NHS care. However, BUPA 
werent made aware of the difficulties after the initial contact. There were also other benefits 
under the policy that Miss S may have been able to take advantage. 
Ive taken into account that Miss S contacted BUPA in November 2020. BUPA has 
acknowledged that this correspondence was not dealt with properly and offered Miss S three 
months of free cover in recognition of the fact that shed not been able to access treatment 
and theyd not responded to correspondence in the way they should. I think this was fair and 
reasonable. 
The policy certificate sets out the limits of cover  the 2019/2020 certificate shows, on page 
four, the limits of cover for private ambulance transfers. The policy will cover up to £60 each 
single trip up to a maximum of £120 each year. So, I cant say that BUPA did anything wrong 
by not agreeing to cover Miss Ss full transfer costs. And, in any event, no claim was made 
for the transfer, based on the evidence Ive seen, because Miss S didnt move to a private 
facility for the reasons Ive explained. 
The refund of premiums and rebate
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Your right to cancel
You may cancel your membership for any reason by call us on [redacted] or writing 
to us within the later of 21 days of: 
Receipt of your policy documents (including your membership certificate) we 
send you each year confirming your cover or The cover start date of your policy. 
During this period, if you have not made any claims we will refund all of your 
subscriptions for that year. After this period of time you can cancel your cover at an 
time, we will refund any subscriptions you have paid relating to the period after your 
cover ends.
Miss S didnt cancel her policy within 21 of receiving her policy documents and the policy ran 
for the full one-year term. So, I dont think shes entitled to a refund of the premiums under 
the policy terms and conditions. And, as Ive explained above, Im satisfied that the policy 
was still offering her a benefit. 
Ive taken into account that Miss S didnt receive a response from BUPA as promptly as she 
should have done when she raised concerns about the policy. But I think the policy terms 
make it clear how to cancel the policy if a policyholder wishes to. So that hasnt changed my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint. 
BUPA pledged that, if it saw a reduction in the claims it paid for customers overall as a result 
of the pandemic, it would issue a rebate to eligible members if there was any exceptional 
financial benefit. It said that it would appoint a third party to complete an independent review. 
I think this was reasonable given the exceptional circumstances. I think BUPAs offer of three 
months free cover and the rebate was fair and reasonable taking into account the 
unprecedented circumstances surrounding the pandemic. I also think that this offer was 
reasonable, given that the effects of the pandemic were ongoing and the impact of it 
remained uncertain. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman