DRN-3181630
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S took out an annual travel insurance policy. He was due to travel abroad in 
April 2020. On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared that Covid-19 was a 
global pandemic and on the 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development 
Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. That advice remained in place 
until Mr Ss planned departure date. 
The airline Mr S was due to travel with cancelled his flight and Mr S was unable to travel to 
his destination. He cancelled the hotel and they were unable to offer him a refund. They 
offered him the opportunity to move his trip within a two-week window but Mr S still couldnt 
travel. Mr S claimed on his travel insurance policy. 
URV declined the claim because they said the circumstances werent covered under the 
policy terms and conditions. Unhappy, Mr S complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She thought that 
the policy terms and conditions didnt clearly set out that there was no cover if Mr S 
cancelled due to a change in FCDO advice but also not covered if he travelled. 
Mr S accepted the investigators findings but URV asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. They said that it was up to Mr S to check that he had the right level of cover. So, I 
now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
The policy terms and conditions say, on page 16: 
URV will pay up to £5,000 unrecoverable accommodation costs if cancellation of the trip 
is necessary and unavoidable and due to:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct 
result of pregnancy of:
a. you
b. any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c. any person who you have arranged to stay with
d. your close relative
e. your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with (which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy 
payment legislation, and at the time of booking the trip there was no reason to 
believe anyone would be made redundant).
4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance 
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their 
authorised leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that 
the cancellation could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you 
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home 
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, 
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or 
theft.
 
In the general exclusions section on page 12 it says there is no cover for: 
Your travel to a country or specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from 
which you are travelling has advised against all or all but essential travel. 
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
Mr S cancelled his trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to 
the destination he was due to travel to. Thats not something that is covered under 
the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. 
However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think 
that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr S had travelled abroad hed 
have not followed FCDO advice. So, he wouldnt have been covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in 
FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made 
sufficiently clear to Mr S.   
Mr S would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this 
information was brought to his attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I 
dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear. 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr S and 
URV. I think its unlikely that Mr S would have purchased the policy if he had realised 
that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after hed 
bought the policy. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into account that hed have 
been able to buy an alternative policy which offered such cover at the time he was 
purchasing this policy. 
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint about Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman