DRN-2411391
The complaint
This complaint is about monthly fees which Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) raised on the 
late Mr Rs bank account for two packages of potential benefits, one called a Tech Pack and 
one called a Travel Pack. Mr Rs estate (the estate) believes that Barclays charged these 
fees unfairly and should repay them. 
What happened
I understand that Mr R banked with Barclays for quite a long time. In or around 2016, he 
complained to it directly that it had mis-sold him two packaged bank accounts, the first called 
an Additions account and the second (which replaced his Additions account) called an 
Additions Plus account. Both these accounts provided Mr R with some potential benefits for 
which Barclays charged him a monthly fee. Barclays accepted it had mis-sold these 
accounts and paid Mr R compensation for the fees it had charged him. Barclays seems to 
have worked out the compensation up to that point fairly, and Mr R accepted it.
At around the same time that Barclays upheld Mr Rs complaint, it switched him to a different 
type of account which didnt have a monthly fee, but Barclays added the tech and Travel 
Packs which did have monthly fees. Sadly, Mr R passed away around two years later, but 
before he died, he told his family that he had never agreed to have either pack and said that 
Barclays should not have charged him any fees. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and didnt think that Barclays 
had acted unfairly and didnt recommend that it should refund any money to Mr Rs estate. 
The estate didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to extend my sympathy to Mr Rs family following their bereavement. The 
recent months must have been a very difficult time for them, and I would like to thank them 
for their patience while we looked into their complaint, which I appreciate must have been 
upsetting for them to make through the estate while coming to terms with their loss. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this complaint. Ive
looked into everything that the estate and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case, 
and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below. 
While Mr R held the Additions Plus account, Barclays decided to withdraw it from all its 
customers. This was a commercial decision which it was allowed to make providing it told its 
customers what it was planning and gave them reasonable choices.
Barclays has sent us copies of two letters it wrote to Mr R about changing his account. It 
sent the first letter in late 2016. This letter told Mr R that Barclays proposed to switch him to 
a Barclays Bank Account with no monthly fee, but that it would add the Tech Pack and the 
Travel Pack. The letter explained that Barclays would add these two packs as their potential 
benefits were similar (though not identical) to those of Mr Rs Additions Plus account. The 
letter told Mr R how much the two packs would cost and what features they would provide. It 
also told Mr R that he could opt out of these packs and that if he did so his account would 
not have a monthly fee. It described how he could do this either by visiting one of Barclays 
branches or by calling a particular phone number.
Barclays sent the second letter to Mr R in January 2017. This letter told Mr R that Barclays 
had changed his account and that it had started to charge him for the two packs. It also told 
him that both packs were optional, and he could remove them from his account at any time.
In February 2017, Barclays wrote to Mr R to tell him it was upholding his complaint about the 
Additions and Additions Plus accounts. As well as setting out how much compensation it 
would pay, the letter included the following paragraph 
Important information about your current account
Your Current Account remains unchanged. You will continue to be charged a 
combined monthly fee of £18.00 for the optional Tech Pack and Travel Pack. Your 
Tech Pack and Travel Pack provide you with the following benefits.
The letter then gave an outline description of the potential benefits of the packs and then 
said: 
If at any time you would like to make any changes to your account, please call our
dedicated team on (phone number) or visit any Barclays branch
Taking these three letters together, along with the timeframe within which Barclays sent 
them, Im satisfied that it met its obligations to keep Mr R informed and to give him 
reasonable choices. 
I have also seen copies of later letters Barclays sent to Mr R which told him about 
subsequent increases to the fees it was charging and to the benefits it was providing. Ive 
also seen one which told Mr R that he would no longer be eligible for all the potential 
benefits of the Travel Pack due to his age.
The estate has told us that Mr R probably didnt read all the correspondence that Barclays 
sent to him. As well as the letters, it has mentioned his bank statements, which recorded the 
monthly fees, and has told us that Mr R was just interested in the overall balance at the end 
of the month - making sure he was in credit with roughly the same amount. I accept this, but 
I think that Barclays did enough to bring the relevant matters to Mr Rs attention. 
The estate has also said that Barclays should have stopped taking the fees when it upheld 
Mr Rs complaint. I understand that it believes it would have been more reasonable for 
Barclays to assume Mr R didnt want the packs and simply switch him to the fee-free 
account, without any additions. I fully understand the estates position about this. 
However, in some situations customers who have been mis-sold an account at one time 
ultimately want to keep it. This may happen, for example, if their circumstances or the 
benefits of the account change, or if they come to rely on an insurance benefit; So, Barclays 
may well not have known that Mr R didnt want the two packs, and given the information it 
sent him, I think that it was reasonable that it left them on his account.My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding the complaint Mr Rs estate has 
made about Barclays Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell Barclays to refund any of the fees 
Mr R paid for the Travel Pack or Tech Pack.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman