DRN-3354907
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to refund a deposit of cash 
that was lost when using an ATM.
What happened
Mr P attempted to pay a sum of cash into an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) and 
experienced problems. Hes explained how he put the cash into an envelope and paid it into 
the machine, at which point there was an error message that said deposits were no longer 
available. Mr P didnt receive any receipt and his card was returned to him. Mr P says he put 
his card back into the machine which now appeared to be working and Mr P assumed his 
deposit had been recorded by the ATM.
A few days later, Mr P became concerned about his deposit and later that week went into a 
branch to enquire about it. Halifax looked into the issue but couldnt find the deposit in the 
machine and the system audit recorded that it had been returned. Mr P complained to 
Halifax about the situation. Halifax recognised that theyd let Mr P down by delaying their 
response to him and paid £30 compensation into his account but didnt accept that there had 
been any error when their ATM hadnt accepted his deposit.
Mr P remained unhappy with how theyd handled his situation and brought his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who considered both parties submissions, including an audit log of deposits for 
the ATM.
This showed that Mr P had tried to deposit his envelope, but the process was then reversed, 
and the envelope returned. Halifax later stated that theyd taken the machine apart to see if 
the envelope had become stuck anywhere, but it couldnt be found.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint because the evidence showed the envelope 
had been returned. Mr P raised the issue of the CCTV coverage for when he made the 
deposit. It was explained that CCTV footage was only kept for a short time and was no 
longer available. Mr P disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further 
review of his complaint.
Mr P commented that if the envelope was returned, it wasnt to him and Halifax should 
refund him. Mr P believed Halifax were at fault for how his deposit was dealt with.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr P attempted to deposit his cash, it was apparent that the ATM wasnt able to 
accept it. The audit data shows Mr P using the ATM and depositing the envelope before its 
then recorded as reversed. The ATM was later opened, and staff members searched for Mr 
Ps envelope to see if it had been trapped somewhere in the machine. Unfortunately, no 
envelope was found. So, together with the physical search of the ATM and the audit data, I 
think it likely that when Mr P attempted to deposit the envelope, it was then reversed.
Mr P has said he re-entered his card and PIN because he was a little unsure of what had 
happened, and particularly as he didnt receive a receipt. The ATM accepted his card and 
PIN and seemed to be operating properly. Halifax records also show that successful 
deposits were made later that afternoon. So, it appears that the ATM had a temporary 
problem accepting deposits.
Mr P has said he didnt notice the envelope being returned, even after he re-entered his card 
and PIN. Hes argued that Halifax should reimburse him because the envelope wasnt 
returned to him and Halifax are at fault for how their ATM operated that day.
The timings on the audit show the envelope was reversed almost straight away. I havent 
been able to understand how Mr P, who was at the ATM for a short while after depositing his 
envelope - didnt see the envelope of cash being returned. Its possible Mr P wasnt aware 
that the machine had returned it, but as he was troubled by what had happened during the 
deposit, I would have thought he would have been conscious of what was happening with 
the ATM for the very reason that his envelope might be returned or a receipt being 
produced.
But that didnt happen, as it appears Mr P had left the ATM before his envelope was 
returned. I think its likely someone unknown then took it, in which case Mr P believes Halifax 
should reimburse him. 
Whats happened here is that the ATM appeared to have a temporary problem accepting 
cash deposits and returned (reversed) the cash in the envelope. Theres no guarantee that 
these types of machines will work every time theyre used. As the envelope was returned, I 
dont think Halifax then have a responsibility to re-imburse Mr P. If the envelope had been 
accepted into the ATM, but hadnt credited his account, then that would be a different matter. 
But, as it effectively rejected the deposit, I dont think Halifax are then responsible for the 
envelope.
CCTV
Mr P thought CCTV of the ATM would assist his situation, but it was no longer available. As I 
havent been able to review it, I cant really comment on whether it would have assisted or 
not. But, Im satisfied the envelope was returned and as Ive already explained above, I dont 
think Halifax are responsible for any refund to Mr P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc  trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman