DRN-3237096
The complaint
Ms F complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to her.  
What happened
TFS approved Ms F for a guarantor loan of £7,500 in April 2017. The term of the loan was 
60 months; with repayments of approximately £294 per month. Ms F complains this loan was 
irresponsibly lent. She says TFS did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the loan. Had it done so, Ms F says TFS wouldve seen the loan was 
unaffordable to her and not approved it. Ms F says she has lost out financially as a result as 
she has had to pay additional interest and charges. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. They didnt think TFS had 
completed proportionate checks; but in any event the information it did have showed the 
loan was likely unaffordable to Ms F.
TFS disagreed with the assessment. It maintained that although Ms F had negative markers 
on her credit file; it had completed proportionate checks, and these had shown the loan was 
affordable.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Ms F. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time TFS lent required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Ms Fs ability to afford the loan and 
repay it sustainably over its term without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably without having to borrow further.
TFS says it completed proportionate checks; and in this instance I agree with it. During the 
application process TFS asked Ms F to provide details of her income and expenditure. She 
explained that she had recently separated from her partner; and was planning on using the 
money for home improvements. Ms F confirmed she had four dependents; and was working 
for her ex partners company. TFS also searched her credit file. In order to verify the income 
Ms F had declared it asked for copies of Ms Fs statements; and or proof of her benefits.    
Ms F was able to provide copies of these statements and evidence of her benefits receipts to 
TFS. The details TFS were able to see from these checks allowed it to verify Ms Fs income 
more accurately than the figure she had declared. TFS used the lower verified figure as the 
basis of its affordability calculation.
Ms F also provided information about her expenses; and TFS used the information on her 
credit file and the bank statements it had; to verify some of these costs. These included 
things such as payments to her existing known creditors and credit cards. 
As TFS has verified Ms Fs income; and used this verified lower number; and partially 
verified her outgoings; Im satisfied it completed proportionate checks.
With that being said; TFS still had a responsibility to ensure it was carefully considering the 
information it had gathered. Proportionate checks themselves do not necessarily lead to TFS 
having made a fair decision to lend. And in this instance; based on the information that was 
provided Im not persuaded TFS did make a fair decision to lend.
TFS had access to Ms Fs credit file and bank statements at the time of the application. 
Looking through these statements it shows that Ms Fs outgoings were higher than that she 
had declared through her application with TFS. Not taking into account the additional 
payment the TFS loan would make; the statements show Ms Fs budget would be tighter 
than expected.
If we take into consideration the fact Ms F was using this loan for home renovations and not 
debt consolidation; it is reasonable to include the deduction from the TFS loan to her 
outgoings. Having done this with the amount on the statements it shows Ms F wouldve been 
left with a tight, if not negative, margin each month. TFS was aware Ms F had four 
dependents at the time of the application; and as such I think it was reasonable for it 
consider her outgoings could fluctuate further on a month to month basis.
TFS has said Ms F had more income which was not disclosed on her statements. However, 
Im not persuaded it could reasonably rely on this information. Namely because the 
information it gathered via the payslips was in line with what TFS saw on the statements it 
was provided. So I think it is reasonable to say TFS shouldve relied on this figure to support 
any application by Ms F.
The credit file showed Ms F had had issues managing credit in the past. TFS acknowledges 
she had negative markers. And considering it knew this; and the fact this loan was for home 
improvements, I think its reasonable to conclude that Ms Fs application wasnt sustainable. 
The evidence indicated she would be managing a tight budget with four dependents; and 
this placed considerable pressure on her tight finances. TFS is aware any lending needs to 
be sustainable  meaning without the borrower incurring further hardship or having to 
borrower further. And Im not satisfied Ms F would reasonably been able to achieve these 
repayments sustainably. Im satisfied TFS ought to have realised this too based on the 
information it had at the time of the application. It therefore follows that Im satisfied TFS 
unacted unfairly in approving this loan to Ms F.
Putting things right
In order to put things right; I require TFS Loans Limited to:
Add up the total amount of money Ms F received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Ms F made should be deducted from this amount; as well as any charges or fees associated with the loan.
a) If this results in Ms F having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans Limited should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms F.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
TFS Loans Limited need to remove any negative information recorded on Ms Fs 
credit file regarding this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest. TFS 
Loans Limited must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this loan against TFS Loans Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman