DRN-3896743
The complaint
Mrs and Mr K complain about how Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax dealt with Mrs K.
What happened
Mrs K says she asked Halifax for information about data it held about her. She says the 
team dealing with her complaint was called PCA frequent and fraudulent. Mrs K says 
Halifax is labelling her and she didnt make a complaint of fraud. She says the label caused 
distress to her. Mrs K also complains about how Halifax has dealt with her complaint and 
dealt with her on various telephone calls.
Halifax says it spoke to Mrs K and explained what the term meant, which was about its 
specialist department. It says it dealt appropriately with Mrs K during the telephone calls.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained that we couldnt look into complaints about complaint handling. The 
investigator thought Halifax explained what its term PCA frequent and fraudulent referred 
to, which wasnt about Mrs K specifically but its specialist team. The investigator listened to 
the telephone calls between the parties and thought Halifax had tried to help Mrs K.
Mrs K doesnt accept that view and says she has been unable to listen to the calls herself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs K will be disappointed by my decision.
I make clear to Mrs K that complaint handling is not a regulated activity and so we cant 
consider complaints about how Halifax dealt with Mrs Ks complaint. I say that as I think 
large parts of Mrs Ks complaints are about complaint handling and are separate issues to 
her main complaint about the term or team name that was dealing with her.
I have listened to all of the calls between the parties including the call about the PCA 
frequent and fraudulent term. Im satisfied that Halifax fairly explained what the term was 
about and that it referred to its team rather than Mrs K. I can also see that Halifax explained 
that in its letter. I appreciate Mrs K thought it referred to her, but Im satisfied Halifax has 
cleared up any misunderstanding. I cant fairly order that Halifax change that term and 
accept its up to Halifax to decide what it calls its specialist teams.
I appreciate Mrs K is unhappy about how she was dealt with on telephone calls with Halifax. 
I have explained that we cant consider the complaint handling issue calls but am satisfied 
during other calls that Halifax dealt appropriately with Mrs K.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax has fairly explained what the term Mrs K was unhappy 
about meant. Im also satisfied that Halifax has tried to help Mrs K and dealt appropriately 
with her during the calls. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this 
complaint informally can do. It is not our role to direct Halifax which complaint handlers deal 
with Mrs K if she had future complaints. I appreciate Mrs K would have liked to have listened 
to the calls between her and Halifax, but I have listened to them and have made clear my 
conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman