DRN-3833554
The complaint
Miss S complains that after she reached age 18, Forester Life Limited refused to provide her 
aunt with any information about the Baby Bond savings plan she took out for her. 
What happened
In 2000, Miss Ss aunt began to save regularly into a tax-efficient savings plan called a Baby 
Bond. The plan paid out a lump sum to Miss S when she reached age 21. Miss S, 
represented by her aunt, complained that Forester Life didnt tell her aunt until it issued the 
2008 plan statement that it wouldnt be able to contact her about the plan when Miss S 
turned 18. Miss S said that she was told by Forester Life prior to her 21 birthday that a 
payment would be made to her and that Forester Life hadnt provided any information about 
the maturity value to her aunt. Forester Life didnt uphold the complaint and explained that 
when Miss S reached age 16 it communicated with her and her aunt, but when Miss S 
turned 18 the investment was hers and it was unable to communicate information to her aunt 
unless they had Miss Ss written authority to do so.
Miss S brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and is represented by 
her aunt. The Investigator looked into things and thought that Forester Life hadnt acted 
unreasonably when it only communicated with Miss S after she reached age 18. Miss S 
thought the way Forester Life dealt with the maturity ruined the surprise of her aunt revealing 
the gift on her birthday. Miss S asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S says she was disappointed that it was Forester Life that told her of the maturity of the 
savings plan and not her aunt. I have some empathy with Miss S here, but Ive decided that 
Forester Life acted reasonably in communicating with Miss S direct after she reached age 
18. I will now explain why. 
The savings plan was sold by an independent financial adviser (IFA) and Forester Life has 
since acquired the business that administered the plan. Any reference I make to Forester 
Life should also be taken as a reference to the original provider of the plan. I would have 
expected the IFA to have provided details of how the policy worked to Miss Ss aunt and 
Forester Life has provided a copy of the sales brochure it would have provided to the IFA. 
The plan brochure explains that the plan, or Baby Bond, legally belonged to Miss S. 
However, it went on to say that until Miss S reached age 16, Forester Life would deal with 
the parent or guardian of Miss S, and that no one else, even the person who pays the 
premium would have control of the plan. In essence, Miss Ss aunt had gifted the plan and 
its proceeds to Miss S and never had any control of it. 
Im satisfied that the complaint is not about who controlled or owned the plan. Instead the 
crux of the complaint is whether Forester Life acted reasonably when it decided it could no 
longer send information about the plan to Miss Ss aunt as Miss S was always the legal 
owner of the plan and the benefits it provided.
When it issued the 2008 savings plan statement to Miss Ss aunt, Forester Life explained 
that because of changes to data protection legislation, it could still discuss the plan with a 
parent/guardian and the aunt of Miss S if Miss S was under age 16. But then, when Miss S 
reached age 16 or 17, it could also discuss the plan with Miss S, and she could make 
changes to the plan or make a claim. Forester Life explained that when Miss S reached age 
18, it could only deal with Miss S unless she provided an authority for it to deal with another 
adult. In this case I think its reasonable for me to conclude this included Miss Ss aunt. In 
the same statement letter Forester Life said, We understand that you might have been 
planning a surprise for the child when they are older and this may now not be possible. We 
wanted to make you aware of this, so you can start planning for the future with the child 
and/or the parent".
I think this makes it reasonably clear that Miss Ss aunt could still be included in 
correspondence if Miss S provided a written authority. I also think that it gave reasonable 
notice of a change to the plan to Miss Ss aunt whod been paying the premiums. Theres no 
dispute Miss S didnt provide an authority to Forester Life for information to be shared with 
her aunt after she reached age 18. I can understand why Miss Ss aunt may have wanted to 
surprise Miss S with the gift, but without a written authority from Miss S, I wouldnt expect 
Forester Life to provide any information about the plan to Miss Ss aunt, even if she was the 
person who gifted the Baby Bond plan. 
The change in data protection legislation led to Forester Life making the decision that it 
would need a written authority from Miss S to keep her aunt informed about the plan, but I 
cant tell Forester Life it should change its policy in this regard. Im satisfied Forester Life 
gave sufficient notice to the aunt of Miss S about the change and it explained the potential 
impact of the change when the plan reached maturity. Miss S may have been disappointed 
that Forester Life, and not her aunt, told her what the proceeds of the plan were, but Im 
satisfied Forester Life didnt act unreasonably in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint against 
Forester Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman