DRN-4206833
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr J applied for a credit card account in June 2009. Lloyds approved the application and 
opened the account with an initial credit limit of £2000. The credit limit was increased to 
£2550 in January 2010, to £3050 in June 2011, to £4050 in April 2012, to £5050 in June 
2014 and to £5500 in October 2014.
Mr J complained that Lloyds had lent to him irresponsibly. He said that at the time hed 
opened the account he was self-employed but deriving very little income, and that hed used 
the credit card for gambling transactions.
Lloyds didnt investigate the complaint because it felt that it had been brought outside of the 
relevant time limits. This service subsequently decided that the complaint could be looked 
into. 
Lloyds werent able to confirm to this service what checks it had carried out when it opened 
the account and when it increased the credit limit. This is because Lloyds no longer holds 
any records in relation to the account due to passage of time. Lloyds isnt required to retain 
information indefinitely.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that the decision in June 2011 to 
increase the credit limit was irresponsible, as were the subsequent increases.
Mr J accepted the view but said that he felt he should receive compensation for the impact 
that the irresponsible lending had on him.
Lloyds said it didnt agree with the view but offered to resolve the complaint by refunding 
interest and charges incurred after 1 October 2014.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Js complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Lloyds needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mr J could affordably repay what was being lent to him. Theres no set list of 
checks that a lender has to carry out. But lenders are required to have regard to things such 
as the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayments and the 
consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Because of the length of time which has passed since the account was opened and the 
credit limit increased, Lloyds hasnt been able to provide this service with details of the 
checks it completed. So, it isnt possible for me to conclude that Lloyds completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks.
Instead, Ive looked at what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown.
Account opening  June 2009
Mr J has told this service that from the period prior to 2010  2015 he was self-employed. 
Hes said that he didnt make very much money from his business and that he gambled on a 
daily basis.
I havent seen any bank statements to support what Mr J has said about his financial 
circumstances at the time he applied for the credit card. Because of the limited information 
Ive seen, Im not in a position to say that the lending decision in June 2009 was unfair.
Credit limit increase  January 2010 
Ive reviewed Mr Js credit card statements for the period leading up to his credit limit 
increase. I cant see anything which suggests that Mr J was having problems managing the 
account. All of Mr Js payment were made on time and exceeded the minimum monthly 
payment. Sometimes Mr J paid off the balance in full. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
Lloyds wouldve had any concerns about Mr Js management of the account.
Before increasing the credit limit, Id expect a lender to carry out a credit search to check that 
the consumers unsecured debt hadnt increased to an unsustainable level, and to see how 
the consumer was manging other credit commitments. I havent been able to look at the 
results of a credit search in Mr Js case because Lloyds hasnt been able to provide this.
Mr J has provided some bank statements from December 2009 onwards. Ive reviewed 
these to see what they show about Mr Js other credit commitments at the time. I can see 
that Mr J was making payments to other creditors, but there was nothing to suggest that he 
was struggling to do this, or that his debt to income ratio was too high.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the credit limit increase in January 2010 was affordable to 
Mr J.
Credit limit increase  June 2011
Ive reviewed Mr Js credit card statements for the period leading up to the credit limit 
increase. In the months leading up to the credit limit increase, Mr J had exceeded the credit 
limit and incurred fees on 4 separate occasions. This is indicative of a consumer who has 
become overly reliant on credit and who isnt managing the account well. I think this 
shouldve promoted Lloyds to carry out further checks.
I cant be certain of what further checks Lloyds wouldve done. But I think it wouldve likely 
looked at Mr Js bank statements to verify his income and expenditure.
Mr J has provided his bank statements for the relevant period. These show that in the three 
months leading up to the credit limit increase Mr J spent almost £9000 on gambling. Whilst I 
can see that there were significant sums coming into the account, these appear to have 
been derived from gambling as well.
Ive also looked at Mr Js credit card statements for the relevant period. These show that in 
the six months leading up to the credit limit increase, Mr J spent around £6500 on gambling.If Lloyds had completed reasonable and proportionate checks, I think it wouldve been 
obvious that Mr J had a serious gambling problem which had caused him to become overly 
reliant on credit and had led to a situation where he wasnt likely to be able to sustainably 
repay any further lending.
For these reasons I dont think the lending decision in June 2011 was fair.
Credit limit increases in April 20912, June 2014 and October 2014
Ive explained why I dont think the lending decision in June 2011 was fair.
Ive looked at all the information available. Theres nothing to indicate that Mr Js financial 
circumstances improved in a sustainable way between June 2011 and the later lending 
decisions. If anything, Mr Js financial circumstances got worse.
Because theres no evidence of a significant and sustained improvement in Mr Js 
circumstances, I dont think the later lending decisions were fair.
For the reasons Ive given I uphold the complaint. The lending decision in June 2011, and all 
later decisions, were unfair. 
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should:
Rework the account, removing all interest and charges applied to balance over £2550
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr J together with 8% 
simple interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement*. Lloyds should also remove any adverse information recorded after June 2011 
regarding the account from Mr Js credit file
If, after the rework, the balance still exceeds £2550, Lloyds should arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mr J. Once Mr J has cleared the balance, Lloyds should also remove any 
adverse information recorded after June 2011 regarding the account from Mr Js credit file
*HMRC require Lloyds to deduct tax from any award of interest. Lloyds must give Mr J a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one
I understand that Mr J feels that he should be awarded compensation for the distress caused 
to him by the irresponsible lending. Ive thought about this, but this service doesnt generally 
award compensation in these types of cases. I think the removal of interest and charges as 
Ive set out above is fair and reasonable redress in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC must take the steps Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman