DRN-3547586
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) lent to 
her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs W applied for a credit card with Tesco in November 2016. She was accepted and given 
a credit limit of £1,100. Her credit limit was increased in December 2017 to £3,000.
Mrs W says that Tesco shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt take 
account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit. She 
says Tesco didnt check properly that it was affordable for her and that she has struggled 
with debt as a result. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She didnt think Tesco had done anything 
wrong in its lending decisions. 
Mrs W disagreed. She set out problems she had later in the credit relationship.
As Mrs W did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Tesco 
acted unfairly and lent to Mrs W irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion
.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W could afford 
to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Mrs Ws borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Tesco has provided a list of the checks it completed when opening Mrs Ws account. It says 
these show that it was reasonable to lend to Mrs W in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Tesco saw that Mrs W had no County Court Judgements (CCJs) 
or recent defaults. It showed that she had about £7,388 in other unsecured lending at the 
time, which included a loan for £6,842 and other revolving credit of £546. While Mrs W had 
told Tesco that she earned £16,000 a month, Tescos internal systems realised this was a 
mistake and effectively recalculated her income to £16,000 per year, which was around 
£1,323 net a month.
 
Based on this a credit limit of £1,100 appeared affordable and Mrs W didnt appear to be 
overindebted. Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Tesco completed were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an unfair lending decision.
 
In December 2017 Tesco increased Mrs Ws credit limit to £3,000. Tesco says this was at 
Mrs Ws request. It completed another credit which it says showed no adverse information. 
As no further information has been provided, its unclear what your financial circumstances 
were at the time.  Given the proportionately large increase I think that Tesco should have 
done more checks before providing that additional credit. I think it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for Tesco to have confirmed Mrs Ws committed expenditure 
in relation to essential expenditure such as housing costs, council tax and utilities.
 
I cant be sure what Tesco would have seen if it had asked about this. Tesco has said that it 
calculated what these would have likely been and have provided this information which 
indicates that the lending would have been appropriate. Mrs W declared a net monthly 
income of £1,666. Mrs W has also provided bank statements from around the time of the 
increase. These showed that she had an average income in the three months leading up to 
the lending decision of £1,463 and that her committed expenditure, including her credit 
commitments, was about £974. While Mrs Ws income was lower than that she declared to 
Tesco she still appeared to have enough disposable income each month to make regular 
sustainable repayments on her credit card.
  
So if Tesco had directly checked her income and expenditure (instead of making its own 
calculation) along with the credit check it did, I dont think it would have seen anything to 
make it think Mrs W could not sustainably afford the repayments on the increased credit limit 
because she appeared to have sufficient disposable income to meet all her repayments. So, 
on balance, I dont think Mrs W lost out as a result of anything Tesco did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. It follows that Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman