DRN-2977014
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Godiva Mortgages Limited released a new version of the 
Flexx for Term mortgage product which had a lower rate than they were paying, that they 
werent switched to it when it was released, and theyd have to pay a £1,999 product fee for 
it if they wanted to switch.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L applied for their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage through a third-party mortgage 
broker. A mortgage offer was issued in January 2016 which set out the terms of the 
mortgage contract. That said Mr and Mrs L were borrowing £105,000 over 20 years on an 
interest-only basis. The product was described in the offer as GFB96 - BTL Flexx for Term - 
A variable rate, currently 2.29%, which is managed by Godiva Mortgages Limited and is set 
independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end 
of the mortgage term. The mortgage completed in March 2016.
In August 2016 Godiva wrote to Mr and Mrs L to tell them the interest rate, and therefore the 
monthly payments, on their BTL mortgage was going down. The letter said In line with the 
terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable 
mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and 
the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result we are pleased to confirm that we 
are reducing your mortgage rate to 2.04%.
In November 2017 Godiva wrote to Mr and Mrs L to tell them the interest rate, and therefore 
the monthly payments, on their BTL mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with the 
terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable 
mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and 
the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your mortgage 
is increasing to 2.29%.
A Further rate increase letter was sent in August 2018 with broadly the same wording as the 
November 2017, this time the interest rate was increasing to 2.54%.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr L complained to Godiva after the base rate reduction. The complaint notes indicate he felt 
his Flexx for Term should be similar to the Flexx for Term rates Godiva had available that 
day for his loan to value bracket. They also show he was interested in the GFC81 Flexx for 
Term product that had an interest rate at the time of 1.99%, but decided not to apply for it 
due to the £1,999 product fee.
Godiva didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final response letter of 24 April 2020 that 
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage had run in line with the product they took out in 2016. It also 
explained that Flexx for Term products are managed variable rates rather than Bank of 
England Base Rate trackers (base rate). It said there was no early repayment charge 
(ERC) if Mr and Mrs L wanted to move to an alternative rate either with it, or with a different 
lender.
As Mr and Mrs L didnt agree they referred their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He said, in summary:
There arent any rules to say businesses cant offer a range of products as Godiva 
had here, and in fact it was common practice in the mortgage market.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage dont commit Godiva to 
reducing their rate when it offered a similar product at a lower rate.
Godiva was entitled to decide what rates of interest it would offer, and whether or not 
product fees would be charged.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators assessment, and referred us back to Mr Ls 
original complaint letter which said:
I currently have a buy-to-let mortgage with Godiva Mortgages, which is a discounted 
variable rate mortgage product.
I took out the mortgage in March 2016 and at the time I was fully aware of the risk that the 
lending rate could go up and down at the discretion of Godiva but, was under the 
impression that this rate would remain competitive, albeit this was a decision by the 
lender and not linked to the Base Rate.
In light of the recent Base Rate cut, I took the opportunity to contact Godiva (24th April 
2020), just to check I was on the best mortgage product, as a number of years has 
passed since I had reviewed. Godiva advised me that there is another product available 
to me with a lower interest rate, which is in every way are the same terms and conditions 
(it is even called the same!) as the one I currently have, however in order to benefit from 
this I would have to pay £1,999 arrangement fee.
To me, this seems a very disingenuous way of Godiva avoiding not having to offer me a 
reduced interest rate within my existing mortgage. They simply state the new Mortgage is 
a different product (when it is exactly the same) and I have to pay the mortgage 
arrangement fee.
As Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with our investigators assessment their complaint was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its the nature of what we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the 
other. Our findings are based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made 
by both parties. We look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, 
regulations, good industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, 
the lender acted fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs L entered into.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
GFB96  BTL Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 2.29%, which is managed by 
Godiva Mortgages Limited and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Company at 
a rate, currently 2.29%, which will be set independently of The Companys Standard 
Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see the Flexx product is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either 
the standard variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage 
product.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Godiva set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. 
Although Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L werent misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the 
product, I still need to decide if Godiva acted fairly.
Was it fair for Godiva to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The mortgage conditions issue 2 booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
4.5 Unless the Offer says otherwise, we can change the applicable Interest Rate for any of 
the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at the time or those 
which are expected to apply in the near future):
4.5.1 (i) to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally;
(ii) to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
(iii) to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
(iv) to respond to new (or changes to any) statements or codes of practice 
designed to enhance consumer protection;
(v) to respond to changes in the costs or risks incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage;
(vi) to respond to increased cost or risk incurred as a result of any change of use 
of the Property (for example, if you let the Property, with or without our 
permission); or
(vii) for any other reason set out specifically in the Offer.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 4.5.1(i) and 4.5.1(v); that is, an increase 
in the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Godiva in respect of mortgage 
lending. But although the condition says the interest rate may change when base rate 
changes, it doesnt say it has to do so.It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Godivas costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus Godiva 
also increased the interest rate on its Flexx products by the same amount of percentage 
points. But it doesnt automatically follow that Godivas costs decreased in March 2020 as 
the costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
in isolation. The base rate decreased, but Godiva incurred additional costs across its 
mortgage function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning 
mortgage payments werent being made when expected, and needing to move to a remote 
way of working, for example. 
Godiva has sent us information in confidence which shows why the Flexx for Term interest 
rates werent reduced in 2020. Were unable to disclose that information to Mr and Mrs L as 
it is commercially sensitive, but Ive considered the information very carefully and Im 
satisfied that Godivas decision wasnt unfair. Im satisfied Godiva has shown us that its 
costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell. It is unfortunate that the base rate 
reduction came at a time Godiva suffered from increased costs so it wasnt able to reduce 
the products interest rate at that time. 
Mr and Mrs L have the flexibility to switch to another interest rate product with Godiva at any 
time if they no longer felt their Flexx for Term product offered value for money. Im satisfied 
that other interest rate products were available to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage if they had 
wanted to switch to them and that there would have been no ERC to pay to come out of their 
existing Flexx for Term product. They could also have shopped around and remortgaged to 
another lender, if they felt the interest rate products offered by Godiva werent competitive in 
the market. 
The process to take out a new product is simple to make it easy for existing customers to get 
access to new interest rate products. So Im satisfied there were no practical or contractual 
barriers preventing Mr and Mrs L from coming out of their mortgage product if they wanted to 
look for another interest rate either with Godiva or elsewhere. It seems Mr and Mrs L could 
have taken out another product, but they chose not to.
Should Godiva have moved Mr and Mrs L to a new version of the Flexx for Term product, 
and should a fee be due for that?
The product Mr and Mrs L took out has the code GFB96 and since 1 September 2018 that 
had an interest rate of 2.54%. Mr and Mrs L had paid £1,999 to take that product out in 
2016. 
The product Mr L discussed with Godiva in April 2020 had the code GFC81 and had an 
interest rate of 1.99%, and a £1,999 fee needed to be paid by any customer (new or 
existing) that wanted to apply for it. That product was available to be applied for between 
18 February 2020 and 29 April 2020.
Lenders release new products  and new versions of products  all the time. The pricing of 
those products depends on market conditions at the time.
Godiva released many different versions of its Flexx for Term product with different interest 
rates over the years, some higher than Mr and Mrs Ls rate and some lower. This wasnt a new thing related to the base rate reductions in March 2020. Mr and Mrs L were free to apply 
for any of those new versions of the Flexx for Term at any time, albeit theyd have to pay any 
relevant fee for the new product just as every other customer taking the product needed to.
Godiva had no regulatory responsibility to keep Mr and Mrs Ls BTL mortgage under review 
for them and proactively let them know about new versions of the Flexx for Term product 
when they were released, and it also didnt have to waive the product fee that was part of the 
pricing of the lower rate that was available between 18 February 2020 and 29 April 2020. 
The product Mr and Mrs L took out in 2016 was priced at the time at a level that Godiva was 
able to offer it at, the fact it later offered a different version of the Flexx for Term product at a 
lower rate doesnt mean Mr and Mrs L were being treated unfairly. Whilst all were named 
Flexx for Term they were different versions of that product range, as shown by the different 
product codes.
Mr and Mrs L could have applied at any time to move their mortgage to one of the new Flexx 
for Term products that were available, subject to paying any applicable fees of course. As 
they didnt do so they remained on the GFB96 Flexx for Term that since 1 September 2018 
has been charged at 2.54%. The fact a different version was available (GFC81 1.99% Flexx 
for Term) - if Mr and Mrs L were willing to pay the £1,999 product fee for it - doesnt mean 
that Godiva treated them unfairly
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr and Mrs L may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman