DRN-3167480
The complaint
Ms P complains about her request to transfer money from her account with Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Ms P called Nationwide on 29 April 2020 and asked to transfer £60,000 from her account 
over the next few days. Nationwides call handler asked several security questions. The 
transfer did not go ahead as Ms P became distressed at the questions. On 30 April 2020, 
she visited a branch of Nationwide and transferred £61,999.94 to her other bank account in 
seven transactions.
Ms P complained. She had called the coronavirus helpline and she said they put her 
through an interrogation as to why she wanted the money. She said the money was hers 
and didnt see why this was needed. She said she was humiliated. She was old and 
vulnerable and didnt have online access to her accounts. She had to make a journey to a 
branch the next day to make the transfers and this put her at risk of catching the COVID-19 
virus. She didnt feel supported by Nationwide. As a result of what happened, she felt very 
upset and distressed. She said that Nationwides policies about such withdrawals should be 
changed.
Nationwide said they didnt normally offer telephone transfers but did so in some 
circumstances  such as during the pandemic. But the transfers had to be authorised by a 
manager for security purposes. The questions asked by the call handler were within their 
policies for such transfers. They said that Ms P should have been given the option of using a 
third-party mandate  which wouldve enabled a trusted friend or family member to help with 
her banking during lockdown. But they didnt, and so for that error, they paid compensation 
of £75  which Ms P reluctantly accepted.
Ms P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said he thought Nationwide acted fairly. 
They had acted within the policies that they had in operation  which meant they had to ask 
security questions. While Ms P had said that those policies should change  he said our 
service couldnt make firms change their processes and policies.
Ms P asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Ms Ps complaint is that Nationwide shouldve given her more support during the 
pandemic  when she wanted to make some transfers from her account. She said she felt 
vulnerable during the pandemic and as a loyal customer of Nationwide, they shouldve 
helped her. She said that instead they asked intrusive and humiliating questions which she 
considered unnecessary and upsetting. And because of that she then had to visit a branch to 
make the transfers  exposing her to catching the virus.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) made several announcements during the pandemic  
which covered how they expected businesses like Nationwide to act. And  the FCA said 
firms should continue to be vigilant about security breaches. The FCA were concerned there 
would be more fraud and scams. In other words, the FCA expected firms to continue to 
maintain their standards of security  rather than relax them. And so, in the light of this 
guidance, I dont think we could say that Nationwide acted unreasonably in asking the 
security questions they did. 
Nationwide didnt offer a telephone transfer service  but did provide such a service for 
emergency transfers only. They did this to protect against fraudulent transfers  and 
preferred their customers to use either branches or online banking  as those were more 
secure and meant they could guard against fraud more readily. Its an unfortunate fact that 
banking fraud is increasing and all banks, including Nationwide, have security measures in 
place to help prevent fraud. They do this to protect themselves and their customers - and 
need to balance customer service with the need for security.
Ive listened to the call between Ms P and Nationwide on 29 April 2020. Ms P said she 
wanted to transfer a total of £60,000 from her Nationwide account over a few days. The call 
handler explained that Nationwide didnt normally provide a telephone transfer service. They 
offered an emergency service which could be used during the pandemic, but for emergency 
transfers only. Mrs P said she didnt have internet banking and therefore couldnt use that. It 
was clear that Ms P became very upset on the call. She said it was her money and she 
wanted to transfer it to her other bank account as she wanted to pay some bills.  
I appreciate what she was wanting to do, but the call handler did try to explain Nationwides 
policy to her  and asked her questions about why she needed the money. This was in line 
with Nationwides policies. From what I heard on the call, I think because Ms P became 
upset she wasnt able to take in what he was saying. 
So, the only other way for Ms P to make the transfers was to visit a branch, which I can see 
she did on 30 April 2020. I appreciate that Ms P felt uncomfortable with doing that  given 
the situation with the pandemic. But in the circumstances, I dont think Nationwides policies 
could provide any other alternative, or that it would have been fair to have expected 
Nationwide to have made the transfer over the phone on 29 April 2020.
Ms P has said that she wants us to tell Nationwide to change their policies on telephone 
transfers  but we cant do that. Let me say that this service doesnt regulate financial 
services businesses  thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we cant 
make Nationwide, for example, change their operating processes  thats for Nationwide to 
decide as a business. Instead my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Ms P became upset at what she was told by Nationwide, but I think they 
applied their policies fairly in her case. I appreciate she feels strongly about her complaint. 
Nationwide have paid compensation of £75 for not offering her the alternative of using a 
third-party mandate  and I think that was a fair way to resolve Ms Ps complaint, and 
therefore I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman