DRN-2370201
The complaint
Mr P complains Metro Bank PLC (Metro) demanded repayment of his borrowing having 
previously advised him he didnt owe them anything. 
What happened
Following a letter from Metro asking him to close his bank account, Mr P telephoned them on 
the day of his account transfer to another bank to establish his position with them. Mr P says 
in the phone call Metro advised him there was no outstanding balance, so he asked them to 
confirm this to him in writing. Mr P says he didnt receive the letter and it was only after he 
received a telephone call, he was made aware he still had an outstanding balance with 
them. Mr P wants Metro to pay him compensation for the inconvenience caused, correct his 
credit file and clear the outstanding balance on his bank account. 
Metro says while there was some confusion in the telephone call when he rang, Mr P wasnt 
told there was no outstanding balance, but rather there were no arrears, which they have 
accepted was incorrect and paid Mr P a small sum in compensation. Metro says they have 
issued a default notice correctly and reported this to the credit reference agencies as they 
are obliged to do. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Metros response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint, she 
felt Metro hadnt told Mr P he had no outstanding balance due and they had issued the 
default notice in accordance with their terms and conditions. The investigator felt that Metro 
were correct in advising the appropriate credit reference agencies in line with their 
obligations.  
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
What happened here is Mr P had been given notice by Metro to close his account - Mr P 
isnt disputing whether or not Metro were right in doing this, but they gave him incorrect 
information when he was about to transfer his banking arrangements.
Mr P says Metro told him in a telephone call in November 2019 he had no outstanding 
balance with them. This phone call took place at around the time Mr P was switching his 
bank account to another provider. This is the main element of Mr Ps complaint given the 
other concerns he raises are linked to whether or not he believed he owed Metro any 
outstanding balance. I have listened to the telephone call in November 2019 which Mr P 
refers. In this telephone call Mr P mentions himself, he has around £3000 outstanding and 
the staff member of Metro does say in this call there are no arrears. 
What is important here is that not being in arrears, whether correct or not, is not the same as 
saying there is no outstanding balance. Metro have accepted this could be confusing and 
paid Mr P a small compensation amount to recognise this. I do accept Mr Ps point that in 
the call he did ask for the confirmation of the arrears to be put in writing and it wasnt 
followed up. 
Having said that, I am satisfied that during the call Mr P was aware of what was owed to 
Metro given he mentions this himself and this conversation was followed up by Metro in a 
telephone call with him a few weeks later confirming his outstanding balance. It follows I 
cant see that Mr P would have thought he didnt owe Metro any outstanding balance as he 
would have also known this from bank statements sent to him along with text message alerts 
from Metro, leading up to this telephone call. 
What followed is Metro agreed a temporary hold on his bank account, but Mr P was 
subsequently issued with a default notice in February 2020 in line with the terms and 
conditions of his bank account with Metro, as he hadnt settled his balance with them. When 
the bank account defaulted  Metro had also reported Mr Ps account to credit reference 
agencies.  
Looking at this I am satisfied that a default notice was correctly issued by Metro given Mr P 
hadnt settled his bank account with them. While Mr P says Metro had agreed to put a 
temporary hold on his bank account it was explained to Mr P that a hold meant, he wouldnt 
receive calls or texts, but wouldnt prevent the account being reported to credit reference 
agencies, as Metro, like all banks, have an obligation to accurately report customers account 
activity. 
Its worth mentioning the issues that followed Mr Ps telephone call in November are a result 
of him initially taking the view that he didnt owe Metro any outstanding balance, although 
from the information I have seen, I am satisfied, Mr P was aware he owed these monies. 
What isnt clear is what Mr P intended to do with the outstanding balance at the time he was 
expected to close and transfer his bank account with Metro, bearing in mind he had set up a 
bank account elsewhere to accommodate this. 
Its unreasonable to expect Metro to be left with an outstanding debt owed to them, without 
taking any action to re-coup the monies owed. I am satisfied the action they have taken here 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, for the reasons I have already explained. 
Its important for Mr P to discuss with Metro a way forward now and arrange a suitable 
payment plan for the outstanding debt. 
While Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
Metro here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman