DRN-1778360
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Miss W. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 alongside a store credit 
account. Miss W was sold the policy in a meeting, at the same time she applied for the 
account.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss W disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Miss W says she was told she needed to take the PPI to get her card and felt pressurised 
into doing so. She says she wouldnt have agreed to take the PPI if shed known it was 
optional.
The credit agreement Miss W filled in and signed in the store has an option to select PPI. 
And I can see that she selected this option by signing in the place provided. I can also see 
that there was another option on the form for card protection. This option wasnt selected. 
I accept that what Miss W says she remembers being said to her at the time could have 
been what the sales person she spoke to wrongly told her. But this sale happened a long 
time ago and memories of such discussions do tend to fade over time. So I dont think it 
would be fair for me to conclude that this is what happened based solely on what Miss W 
thinks she remembers now. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Miss W actively decided she wanted the PPI 
and signed this section of the application form, knowing she could choose not to if she hadnt 
wanted it. But I can understand why she may not recall this now.
 From what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA recommended the PPI to Miss W. This means it 
didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for her. But it did still need to give her enough 
information so that she could decide if it met her needs. I think its likely that AXA could have 
given Miss W better information about the policy than it did. But I dont think better 
information would have changed her mind about buying the policy. I say this because: 
Miss W appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions and limitations.
 
Miss W says she didnt need the PPI cover. She says she was eligible for generous 
sick pay and also had some savings she could have used to make her repayments if 
she couldnt work. But this policy would have paid out in addition to these other 
means. It would have protected her payments for up to twelve months if she wasnt 
able to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think she 
would still have valued the extra security which the policy gave her.           
 
I cant see any reason why the policy wouldnt have been affordable for Miss W. And 
as she paid the policys premiums monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer 
met her needs.
 
So I dont think that Miss W has lost out by anything that AXA may have done wrong when it 
sold her this policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss W has said about why she still thinks the policy was 
mis-sold. But Im afraid this hasnt changed my opinion that her complaint shouldnt be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint against AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman