DRN-3534628
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund him the money he lost when he was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr T came across an investment companys website while looking online. After checking 
reviews of the company he decided to invest with them. So he sent a number of payments 
from his HSBC account, and an account with another bank, to a cryptocurrency exchange 
account in his name. He then made payments from his cryptocurrency exchange account to 
cryptocurrency account details the company gave him. Ive set out the payments he made 
from his HSBC account below:
Date Amount
5 May 2021 £4,000
27 May 2021 £2,100
2 June 2021 £4,054
Mr T was given access to a trading platform by the investment company, where he could see 
the investments he was making and the returns he was receiving. As he had made a profit, 
Mr T then asked to withdraw some of his investment. But the investment company said he 
needed to pay a number of fees before he would make a withdrawal. After paying some fees 
but still not being allowed to make a withdrawal and being told he needed to pay further fees, 
Mr T became concerned hed been the victim of a scam and so reported the payments to 
HSBC.
HSBC investigated but said, as the payments were sent to an account in Mr Ts own name, it 
was unable to take any further action. Its said the payments didnt trigger its fraud protection 
systems, and so hasnt agreed to refund them. Mr T wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, 
so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ts complaint. They didnt think the payments were 
unusual enough that HSBC ought to have asked further questions before allowing them to 
go through. And they thought Mr T would have confirmed the investments were legitimate if 
HSBC had asked further questions anyway. So they didnt think HSBC should have to refund 
the money Mr T lost. Mr T didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think HSBC needs to refund the money Mr T lost. Ill explain why 
below.
HSBCs records show the payments were made using Mr Ts online banking and Mr T 
accepts he made the payments himself. So while I recognise he didnt intend for the money 
to go to scammers, Mr T did authorise the payments. And so, under the Payment Service 
Regulations, the starting position is that he is liable for the payments and HSBC doesnt 
have to refund them to him.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Mr T was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of the payment, or otherwise done more to protect him.
I dont think any of the payments made out of Mr Ts HSBC account were for particularly 
large amounts. They didnt leave the balance of the account at or close to zero. And I dont 
think the payments were close enough together that HSBC should have recognised them as 
part of a suspicious pattern of payments. So I think its reasonable that HSBC didnt identify 
that Mr T was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of the payments and didnt ask any 
further questions before allowing them to go through.
I sympathise with the position Mr T has found himself in. I appreciate how he feels about this 
case and that my decision will come as a disappointment to him. But, for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think HSBC has acted unreasonably. I dont think anything HSBC could 
reasonably have been expected to do would have stopped him losing his money. And so I 
dont think it would be fair to require it to refund the money he lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman