DRN-3630548
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Revolut Ltd have paid for transactions she made from a wallet which 
should have been frozen.
What happened
Mrs B says that on 8 October 2021, she exchanged £700 into Turkish Lira (TRY), due to a 
beneficial exchange rate and because she was going overseas the following year. She says 
that on 10 April 2022, she was notified of a transaction from Revolut in TRY. She says that 
her Lira account should have been frozen and be unable to be accessed and that she had 
previously not been notified of a Lira transaction. When she checked her account, she saw 
that transactions had been debiting her account since 17 December 2021.
Mrs B says in the past, when she did not have enough money in British Pounds (GBP), the 
transaction was declined and then she would credit her account from her current account, as 
she says she uses her Revolut card like a pay as you go card and mainly for the benefits it 
offers while used abroad. She says she has tried to contact Revolut about this and asked for 
someone to give her a call back, but they said they do not offer call backs. Mrs B made a 
complaint to Revolut.
Revolut did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. They said she first contacted them through their 
in-application (app) chat on 11 April 2022 to report an issue with her account. She informed 
them she had recently bought TRY, however, she realised that her Revolut charges had all 
been in TRY instead of GBP, which left her with no TRY in her account. They said she was 
charged in TRY because at the time the charges were applied in the account, she did not 
have enough GBP to cover them. 
Revolut said that when a customer does not have enough money in their main currency, 
their system will immediately look for the amount in another currency wallet. In this case, the 
system identified her TRY wallet to have enough funds to cover the charges, which is why 
there were TRY charges in her account. They sent her a link to their help centre to show her 
the information about the spending order. Mrs B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She said Revolut complied with the terms 
and conditions of the account and it was up to Mrs B to ensure she had sufficient GBP funds 
in her account. She said she had not seen any evidence to suggest the TRY wallet was 
deactivated, which meant this was an active currency that Revolut could charge.
Mrs B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said that the wallet holding the TRY was frozen as her friend showed her how 
to do this. She said Revolut always sent her notifications if a transaction was declined
and then she would then top it up. She said that she took screenshots to show the money 
was there (in TRY) and so she wondered whether the screenshots can somehow show the 
account was also frozen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mrs B from the outset that Im unable to instruct Revolut to contact their customers 
by phone if they ask them to, as how a business chooses to communicate with their 
customer is a commercial decision for Revolut to make. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mrs B has about her TRY wallet being 
deactivated/frozen/restricted and therefore no money should have left this account. But Im 
satisfied that the account wasnt frozen or restricted and Ill explain why. Revolut have 
provided a screenshot of her account with them. The screenshot shows an account 
restriction log and a card log. The card log shows when her card has been blocked or made 
active and these have entries after the events Mrs B has complained about. But Mrs B says 
that her account should have been frozen as opposed to her card being blocked, which is 
something different.
But there are no entries on the account restrictions screenshot. This is where it would show 
if the account was restricted, such as it being frozen, deactivated or restricted. So Im 
satisfied that the account hadnt been frozen although Mrs B believes it had been. But thats 
not the only reason why Im satisfied it hadnt been frozen. Ive looked at the screenshot that 
Mrs B has sent us which shows the TRY money in her wallet. This shows she bought the 
TRY on 8 October at 16:39pm. The picture was screenshot on 19 November at 16:13pm. 
The screenshot also shows buttons where she could add money to this account or send 
money. These arent greyed out or missing from the screenshot. So Im not persuaded that if 
the TRY wallet was frozen/deactivated/restricted that it would display these options. And this 
is another reason why Im persuaded the TRY wallet was never frozen, even though Mrs B 
thought it had been frozen.
Ive then considered what Revoluts processes are for when there is not enough money to 
make a payment in GBP in her wallet. The terms and conditions do refer Mrs B to their 
frequently asked questions (FAQ) and include a weblink to their website. After clicking on 
this, it has different areas to look for information. One of these areas is for card payments. 
Here there is a section which relates to Mrs Bs complaint  and the link that Revolut 
provided in their final response to her.
Under the which currency balance will be deducted for spending it says currency for the 
card payment is selected in the following order:
1. The currency of the payment (e.g. if you are in the UK carrying out a transaction in 
Euro, we will deduct funds from your Euro balance)
2. Your base currency (GBP), which is determined by your home address
3. The next active currency with a sufficient balance
So as there wasnt enough GBP to take the funds for the purchases Mrs B made, these were 
often taken from the TRY instead of GBP. So Im satisfied that Revolut followed their 
process in terms of where the funds would be taken from. This page also states that if there is no single currency wallet with sufficient funds, the transaction will be declined, even if 
there is enough money across your wallets in total. So Im satisfied this is why Mrs Bs 
previous purchases were declined prior to there being TRY in her account, as there wouldnt 
be any other wallets to take the money out of, and that is why these were declined. But in 
this instance, as there was TRY, this is why the transactions werent declined. 
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about her not receiving notifications from Revolut about 
her purchases, so I asked them about this. Revolut have provided evidence that they had 
sent Mrs B notifications to her from when she first started using TRY. The notifications they 
sent me covered the period from 16 December 2021, when she withdrew cash and a further 
eight transactions after this (up to 5 February 2022). I did not ask for Revolut for further 
evidence of notifications after this date as they had proven that they had sent at least nine 
notifications to Mrs B over a two month period. And theres no evidence to suggest they 
stopped sending notifications after this date as Mrs B herself has said she received a 
notification from them in April regarding a transaction (albeit, I note this is the only 
transaction she says she received the entire time her TRY was being used to pay for things). 
Revolut provided me an example of the push notification that they sent to Mrs B. This would 
have confirmed that she had spent an amount in a different currency and then showed the 
TRY value and the GBP value and it would name the merchant the transaction was made at. 
So Im persuaded that Mrs B was sent notifications showing her that the TRY was being 
used for the transactions. If Mrs B had changed the settings of her phone/app in an attempt 
to freeze the account, which ultimately was not successful, which resulted in her not 
receiving these notifications or she had network/phone issues resulting in her not receiving 
these notifications, then it would not be fair to hold Revolut responsible for this as this would 
be outside of their control. 
It would also be Mrs Bs responsibility to regularly check the transactions of the account. 
Section five of the terms and conditions of the account show that You can check all 
payments into and out of your account through the Revolut app. We will not make any 
changes to your account information. It will be available to you through the Revolut app while 
you are a customer.. We will send a notification to your mobile device each time a 
payment goes into or out of your account. You can turn off these notifications, but if you do, 
you should regularly check your payments on the Revolut app. It's important that you know 
what payments go into and out of your account, so we recommend that you do not turn off 
notifications. So Im satisfied that the app would have shown the transactions which were 
made in TRY also. 
In summary, the evidence shows that the TRY wallet was not frozen at any point and that 
Revolut have proved that they sent Mrs B notifications about transactions which were 
converted into TRY, so she should have been aware of this, in addition to her having access 
to her transactions via the app. And Revolut acted in line with their published processes by 
following their which currency balance will be deducted for spending process. So it follows I 
dont require Revolut to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Gregory SloanesOmbudsman