DRN-2410910
The complaint
Mr B, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that investment 
advice provided by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax failed to meet his objective of tax 
efficiency.
What happened
Mr B was provided with the advice in 2003. At the time he was in his 50s, retired and single 
with no dependents. He had no liabilities and held around £28,000 on deposit. 
He was advised to invest £20,000, split between £3,000 in an ISA and £17,000 into a 
Personal Investment Plan (PIP), both invested in a medium-risk portfolio. 
Mr Bs CMC felt that this failed to meet his requirement for a tax-efficient investment. It said 
consideration shouldve been given to alternatives to the PIP, like OEICs/unit trusts, which 
couldve fed into an ISA over time. 
Halifax considered the matter and looked beyond the tax issues raised by the CMC to the 
overall suitability of the investment. It concluded that given Mr Bs circumstances and his 
lack of any investment experience, the advice to invest at a medium level of risk was too 
high. It felt it wouldve been more suitable for the ISA investment to have been at a cautious 
level of risk and the money committed to the PIP to have instead been placed in a risk-free 
environment.
Halifax carried out comparisons between the performance of both parts of the investment 
and appropriate benchmarks. This showed that Mr B had no incurred a loss. So, despite the 
advice having been unsuitable, it said no compensation was due to Mr B. 
Mr Bs CMC didnt accept this. It said that Mr B had been correctly categorised as a medium-
risk investor and had understood what he was investing in. It maintained that the use of the 
PIP, rather than a more tax-efficient product, was the issue.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as Halifax. She agreed that the advice appeared to have exposed Mr B to too much risk and 
felt that the proposed method of determining whether any compensation was due was fair.
As Mr Bs CMC didnt accept this, the matters been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint originally made by Mr Bs CMC was that the advice provided by Halifax failed 
to meet his requirement for tax-efficiency  there were alternatives that wouldve been more 
suitable in this respect. 
Although I understand the point being made, the compensation requested by the CMC to 
address this potential issue is that a comparison be made between the performance of the 
recommended investments and that of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return 
index  the benchmark this service would generally use when satisfied that the consumer 
wouldve wanted to take some risk (more than a cautious level) with their money. 
But there would be no point in doing this because Mr B did invest at a broadly medium level 
of risk. The correct redress, if I was to find that there was an issue with the tax-efficiency, 
would be to make a comparison with the alternative, more suitable tax position. But in any 
event, I dont think thats a relevant consideration as I agree that the recommendation to 
invest £20,000, over 70% of Mr Bs total money, into a medium risk portfolio wasnt suitable. 
The CMC has confirmed in making the complaint that Mr B had no investment experience. 
And the fact find confirmed that he was retired and had only £50 left over each month after 
his other financial commitments had been met. 
In these circumstances, I think the sort of investment approach represented by what Halifax 
proposed as resolution of the matter wouldve been far more suitable. Taking a small amount 
of risk with £3,000 of Mr Bs money wouldve been more in accordance with his financial 
circumstances and lack of experience. And he couldve added to the ISA over time had he 
wanted to  although it seems unlikely he wouldve been in a position to do so, as he 
withdrew the majority of the money in the PIP after only 16 months and the rest over the 
following years, surrendering in full by 2007. 
In summary, Im satisfied that the approach taken by Halifax to address any concerns with 
the advice is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As its been demonstrated that 
Mr B didnt incur a loss as a result of being unsuitably advised, there is nothing further that 
Halifax is required to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman