DRN-3305838
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund the money he 
lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I dont dispute that Mr N was the victim of an investment scam. But its also not in 
dispute that, for the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017, he 
authorised the payments. So the starting position is that hes liable for them. 
That said, there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into 
account relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, 
and so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction. 
Ive therefore considered whether Nationwide ought to made additional checks on the 
disputed payments that would have prevented Mr Ns loss.
Neither the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or Investor Alerts Portal Organisation 
of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) had issued any warnings about the company 
Mr N paid directly (F). So the payment destination didnt alert Nationwide to the fraud 
risk. The first payment was less than £250, the second around £2,000. I must think 
about when banks can fairly and proportionately be expected to intervene, given the 
volume and value of transactions they process. Overall, Im not persuaded the 
payments were so high or otherwise unusual that they ought to have given 
Nationwide grounds for suspecting fraud. It was reasonable for Nationwide to simply 
act on Mr Ns payment instructions. It didnt miss an opportunity to prevent his loss.
When Mr N reported the scam, Nationwide admits it gave him incorrect information 
about the timescales for raising a chargeback claim. It paid him £75 compensation 
for the upset this caused. I dont think it needs to do more to put this right. Even if it 
had advised him correctly, I consider it unlikely he would have been able to claim 
successfully.
The chargeback scheme only covers direct card payment disputes. Subject to the 
time limits, Mr N would need to show he had valid grounds against the company he 
paid directly  i.e. because it didnt provide the service hed paid for. But the 
payments went to F. Whereas Mr N names another company (E) as the perpetrators 
of the scam, who he believed he held a trading account with and who didnt allow him 
to withdraw his funds. 
In the absence of evidence to the contrary (which Nationwide previously asked for 
and didnt receive), the companies appear to be different and distinct. It seems more 
likely F acted as an intermediary company, fulfilling its service by transferring the 
funds onto E. Im therefore not persuaded there were grounds for a successful 
chargeback claim, meaning Nationwides mistake didnt prevent Mr N from 
recovering his funds. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr N, who has clearly lost out due to a cruel and 
sophisticated scam. But I can only make an award against Nationwide if I find its errors 
caused, or contributed to, his loss. As Ive not found that to be the case, I cant fairly hold it 
liable for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman