DRN-4353812
The complaint
Mr E complains about how MBNA Limited responded to a claim he made in respect of a 
transaction on his credit card.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to the parties so I wont repeat them in detail here. 
My focus will be on giving reasons for my decision.
In summary, Mr E says he booked short term holiday car hire and paid for it using his MBNA 
card. However, he was unhappy with an additional deduction made by the supplier after the 
hire period completed. Mr E says he didnt agree to this charge and doesnt know what it is 
for. 
Mr E raised the matter with MBNA but it didnt raise a dispute with the merchant as it says it 
didnt have sufficient information to do so. Mr E maintains that he sent MBNA the relevant 
information to consider his dispute.
The complaint about the way MBNA handled the claim was looked at by this service. Our 
investigator could see Mr E had responded to MBNAs request for further information  but 
that Mr E had sent it to an incorrect email address. So he didnt think MBNA had acted 
unfairly at the time in not taking the claim further.
Mr E disagrees. In summary he says MBNA should have taken all reasonable steps to 
dispute the charge, and thinks it must have got his email.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and considered the evidence submitted by the parties but wont necessarily 
comment on everything  this isnt intended as a discourtesy but reflects my role in resolving 
disputes informally.
The charge in question was made on Mr Es card which I understand is a Visa credit. So I 
think the Visa chargeback scheme and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75) are relevant considerations in looking at how MBNA could have fairly assisted 
Mr E in recovering his money here.
Chargeback
Any recourse through the chargeback scheme is dependent on the rules of the card scheme. 
So I have considered these in deciding what it fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It appears this dispute is about a charge made post a hire car contract. Mr E doesnt dispute 
he hired a car during a holiday (and paid for this upfront)  but he said he doesnt recognise 
the charge made after the period of hire and confirms that it wasnt agreed. 
MBNA has explained that for this type of claim it is able to raise a compliance dispute in 
respect of Visa terms for merchants regarding proper application of delayed/amended 
charges (detailed in section 5.8.8.3 of the Visa rules here). However, it says it didnt raise a 
compliance dispute in this instance because Mr E had not provided the information it 
needed. It said that it requested this information from Mr E on the 11/8/22 but he then 
emailed this information to the incorrect email address.
After looking through the file I identified that MBNAs system notes on 21/8/22 show it 
recorded what appears to be the same information that it requested from Mr E on the 
11/8/22 (and which Mr E sent in his email including the reason for his dispute). This 
information includes the period he rented the car, confirmation of the lack of any 
documentation provided / notification in respect of the charge, and confirmation he has 
contacted the merchant via email but not received a response.
So to all intents and purposes it appeared to me that MBNA had received sufficient 
information in order for it to progress the dispute for Mr E. 
I put this to MBNA recently but it then came back to say that in order to raise the dispute it 
needed this information specifically as a written statement from Mr E. It says that because 
he didnt send his email to the correct email address it didnt have this. 
However, in deciding what is fair and reasonable I note the following:
I have looked through what appear to be the relevant Visa chargeback rules for when 
Mr E raised his dispute and cannot see where in the Compliance Filing Conditions it 
shows that in order to raise a dispute of this kind MBNA needs to provide a written 
statement from the customer. I can see that in some specific situations this might be 
required  but not here (where a delayed charge is made in Mr Es absence). 
I accept MBNAs entry on the system on 21/8/22 might in fact be a result of a phone 
call. However, if Mr E had called in with the information at the time I question why 
MBNA would not have alerted him that it could not proceed without something in 
writing if that was what was essential for it to continue the dispute. In fact, in its notes 
MBNA refers to its request to him on 11/8/22 as a request for more details rather 
than a need to satisfy a particular rule about obtaining a written statement. 
Even if a written statement from Mr E were required to progress the dispute:
oit is not clear to me that Mr Es initial written correspondence with MBNA 
about the dispute (which he sent it in July and which MBNA associated with 
his account shortly after) would not (in combination with the information it had 
gathered from other records of contact with Mr E) have been sufficient to 
raise a dispute. This correspondence shows he has a dispute about the 
charge and that he has heard nothing from the car hire company since 
handing back the car.
oI am not entirely persuaded MBNA did not receive Mr Es email to its systems 
despite confirming the mailbox he addressed it to is incorrect  it has not 
explained how after requesting the information from him on 11/8/22 it then came to log a system note containing what appears to be the information he 
sent to it in said email. 
All things considered I am not persuaded MBNA was unable to raise a dispute for Mr E in 
respect of the delayed charges based on the information it had received from him.
Therefore, I have gone on to consider what would be fair redress here. It isnt clear what 
would have happened had a compliance case been raised. However, I do note that in the 
Visa rules there appears to be specific onus on the merchant to provide information justifying 
delayed charges in respect of car rental agreements. Mr E has mentioned that when he 
returned the car the supplier pointed out some damage underneath (which he had to bend 
down to see) however, he says that he told the supplier that this wasnt him and was in fact 
not possible for him to have caused as they did not park near any high pavement as the car 
was small. Mr E apparently thought that was the end of the matter. There is no compelling 
evidence that the charges were justified or that the merchant carried out the correct 
procedure (as detailed in the Visa rules) for notifying Mr E of the charges and connecting 
these with his specific use of the rental car. I note that in credible testimony Mr E says he 
emailed the merchant to find out further information and it didnt respond to him at all.
While I accept there is an element of uncertainty in respect of the outcome of any disputes 
process, I note the factors I have discussed appear to indicate Mr E would have a 
reasonable prospect of winning this particular dispute. I also note that in not raising a dispute 
MBNA has deprived Mr E of the ability to find out what would have occurred. So, prima facie 
it appears that the fair resolution to this complaint would be to refund Mr E the additional 
charge made to his card.
Even if I were mistaken about MBNAs ability to raise a Visa compliance dispute with what it 
had received from Mr E I also note the following when considering what is overall a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint:
The email address Mr E used to send MBNA further details was not misspelt or 
omitting a character  it added the word group at the end. Mr E indicates MBNA told 
him over the phone this was the email address to use and questions why else he 
would have used the address if he hadnt been told it. While I can see how a 
typographical error could easily occur I note that adding group is quite specific so as 
to indicate Mr E was plausibly told this was the address by MBNA. I also note that 
despite me asking for phone records MBNA has not provided these  so I am not 
persuaded that MBNA did not give Mr E an incorrect email address.
In any event, it doesnt appear to be in dispute that by late August MBNA had 
sufficient information to understand the dispute and start the process for a Section 75 
claim for Mr E including contacting the merchant and gathering evidence to show this 
charge was in fact a valid one. It appears that the requirements for a valid Section 75 
claim are likely to be in place against MBNA here. Furthermore, to date there is no 
compelling evidence to show this extra charge is justified and it would have been 
within MBNAs reasonable control to have obtained this information during its own 
enquiries with the merchant (using all the relevant details which Mr E had provided 
it). I dont consider it fair at this stage to make Mr E go through an additional process 
of now raising a Section 75 claim when this should have been progressed by MNBA 
in the first instance.
All things considered I think it fair and reasonable for MBNA to now re-work Mr Es credit 
card debt to remove the £311.81 along with any associated interest and charges related to this amount. If Mr E has paid this amount off already (and any associated interest or 
charges) this should be refunded back to him with out of pocket interest.
I asked the parties for their comments. Both agreed with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional findings I see no reason to alter these. So 
my final decision is to uphold this complaint based on said findings (as copied above).
Putting things right
MBNA should put things right in accordance with my direction below.
My final decision
I direct MBNA Limited to re-work Mr Es credit card balance to remove the £311.81 charge  
in doing so it should remove any interest and charges associated with this amount. If Mr E 
has paid any of the amount off (or associated interest and charges) or any credit balance 
arises as a result of the re-working it should refund this to Mr E including yearly simple 
interest at 8% calculated from the date of payment / date of credit balance to the date of 
settlement.
If MBNA considers that it needs to deduct tax from any interest element of my award it 
should provide Mr E with a certificate of tax deduction in case he is able to obtain a refund of 
this from HMRC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman