DRN-2858925
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that their commercial property insurance policy wasnt renewed 
by Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) and their claim wasnt covered.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H own a property which they let out. They insured it through AA as a broker and 
the policy had previously automatically renewed.
AA said Mr and Mrs Hs insurer declined to offer renewal in 2019. It wrote to them at the 
property, being the address theyd given when the policy was first taken out. It told them the 
policy would lapse in October 2019 if they didnt contact it. The policy did lapse.
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs H made a claim to AA for flood damage. AA told them the policy 
hadnt renewed. It apologised for not emailing them and paid them £75 compensation. AA 
said it couldnt backdate the policy but would consider any claims arising during the period 
when they hadnt been covered as if the policy had been in place. 
Mr and Mrs H said their builder had found the source of water getting into the property and 
repaired the damage. The work had cost just over £5,000. After considering the claim AA 
said it wouldnt have been paid as the policy didnt cover damage from gradually occurring 
causes. 
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional 
findings is set out below:
Mr and Mrs Hs policy would have covered them for damage caused by flooding. As AA 
agreed to consider a claim, Ive considered what would probably have happened if the policy 
had been in place and a claim under it had been considered.
A build-up of water under floor boards can amount to a flood. Mr and Mrs Hs builder said 
hed found 10cm of water in the void underneath the floor boards. He went on to say:
By pouring water from outside we have identified that the water runs inside the building 
through the joints of the brickwork below the ground level. In order to stop the water and 
install the damp proof membrane, we had to dig out the ground and expose the wall Loose 
pieces of concrete and bricks have been found by the footings where the water was seeping 
through and getting inside the building.
Together with the fact that some joists were rotten and mould had built up, this indicates to 
me that water had been getting in over a period of time. But theres a general exclusion in 
the policy for:
Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including deterioration, wear and 
tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
So strictly speaking AA was correct in saying that the claim wouldnt have been covered 
under the policy terms.
But I wont automatically say that its fair to rely on such an exclusion to decline the claim  
I take a second step. I also consider whether the consumer should have been aware of the 
damage occurring.
I accept that as soon as Mr and Mrs Hs tenant told them there was an issue with the floor 
boards, they authorised the repairs. I understand they thought at that stage only a minor 
repair and redecoration was needed as a small piece of the wallpaper was coming off in the 
living room. They thought that might have been due to the tenant drying clothes in the 
property and a high level of humidity. The tenant also seems to have mentioned a problem 
with the laminate flooring which might have been due to the rotten joists underneath. I dont 
think its fair to assume that there was anything that should have put Mr and Mr H on notice 
of the more serious issue of water getting in below ground level. So in order to treat 
Mr and Mrs H fairly, I think AA should cover their claim for flood damage.
The insurers responsibilities under the insurance contract are primarily to rectify any 
damage which occurs as the result of an insured event  in this case flooding. They arent 
required to carry out work which prevents any possibility of future damage. To put it bluntly, 
thats the responsibility of the homeowner. The works carried out by Mr and Mrs Hs builder 
included the following:
Drain channel remove, dig close to house foundation, fit damp proof membrane, Concrete 
making. Fit weed control membrane, drain channel- about 20cm from house and paving 
finish.
The cost of those works with associated materials was £1,861. I dont think AA should be 
liable for those preventative works.
The rest of the works appear to me to relate to making good the flood damage. So Im 
minded to say that to compensate Mr and Mrs H for their policy lapsing AA should pay 
them £3,162.79, being the balance of the repair costs plus simple interest at 8% from the 
date they paid the builder.
AA has accepted that it should have done more to avoid the policy from lapsing. But I think 
the £75 it paid in compensation was reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs H for the trouble 
and upset caused by this. Although I have disagreed with the outcome, I also think it treated 
Mr and Mrs H fairly by considering their claim.
Mr and Mrs H accepted my provisional decision. In summary AA made the following points:
The damage wasnt caused by flooding.
A flood is generally an event outside the home such as a river bursting its banks or sea 
water coming over coastal defences.
It thought this damage had been caused by rising ground water which wasnt covered by 
the policy.
The policy didnt say that gradual damage would be covered if it shouldnt have been 
discovered.
It referred me to other decisions which it thought were based on similar situations where 
the consumers complaints hadnt been upheld.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that floods often happen suddenly, particularly when caused by a natural event such 
as a river bursting its banks. But case law has established that a flood can also occur 
gradually through a slow build-up of water. The key fact is that water has built up, regardless 
of where the water came from. Thats what happened here as the water under the floor was 
reported to be 10cm deep. So I think there was a flood.
Buildings insurance policies come with many different types of cover, exclusions and 
conditions. Some insurers say they wont cover floods caused by a rise in the water table. 
But Mr and Mrs Hs policy didnt have such an exclusion. The only exclusion which would 
have been relevant to their claim is the one referred to above for gradually occurring 
damage.
I recognise that on a strict application of the policy terms the insurer would have been 
entitled to decline the claim because the nature of the damage indicates that it happened 
gradually. What Im saying is that it doesnt seem fair for AA to rely on that since for the 
reasons explained in my provisional findings there was no reason for Mr and Mrs H to be 
aware of the damage and they took reasonable action as soon as they did become aware of 
it.
We have issued views and decisions on similar situations to this in the past. But it must be 
remembered that each complaint is considered on its own merits and, quite often, there will 
be key differences that exist which will mean different outcomes will be reached. Often 
differences are found within the policy wordings which apply in each individual case.
All in all, having considered the points made by AA Im not persuaded to change my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I think AA should pay Mr and Mrs H £3,162.79 plus simple interest 
at the rate of 8%.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs H £3,162.79 plus simple interest at the rate of 8% from the date they paid 
their builder to the date of settlement.
If Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs H, it should 
tell them how much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman