DRN-2698461
The complaint
Mr K complains about London General Insurance Company Limited (LGI) and the delays 
he suffered when he claimed for two broken digital cameras.
What happened
Mr K insured two digital cameras with LGI. In July 2020, he claim on his insurance policies 
for both cameras as they had broken.
LGI arranged for both cameras to be inspected and repaired. On both occasions, the 
cameras were deemed to be irreparable and Mr K was offered a settlement, which he chose 
to take as gift cards. But Mr K was unhappy with the length of time it took LGI to make these 
settlements, so he raised a complaint.
Mr K complained that both claims were concluded outside of the 14-day time period LGI said 
they aimed to settle claims within. The first camera was settled 4 days late, and the second 
14 days late. He explained his children used these cameras and theyd suffered a loss of 
enjoyment due to the length of time it took LGI to settle the claims. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for this. Mr K was also unhappy with the length of time it took LGI to respond 
to his complaint and referred to several e-mails hed sent from August to October 2020 
without a reply.
LGI agreed the claims had taken longer than theyd expect. They initially offered Mr K £20 to 
recognise the inconvenience hed been caused. Mr K wasnt happy with this and asked LGI 
increase this offer. LGI requested any proof of financial loss from Mr K, but there wasnt any. 
Mr K explained he didnt think £20 was an adequate offer. LGI reviewed this but thought the 
£20 was fair. So, they didnt offer anything more. Mr K remained unhappy with this response, 
so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt dispute that LGI 
had taken longer than they shouldve to settle the claims. Shed seen an email from LGI 
confirming they aimed to settle claims within 14 days, and she agreed they hadnt on this 
occasion. But she thought the £20 was a fair offer to acknowledge the inconvenience Mr K 
and his family had felt. 
She recognised there had been a loss of enjoyment, but she also acknowledged Mr K 
received the first gift card 4 days late. And thought Mr K couldve used this to purchase a 
new camera to mitigate any further loss of enjoyment. She understood Mr Ks children 
wanted the amount of both gift cards to buy one, more expensive camera, but she thought 
this was Mr K and his familys own decision. So, she didnt think it was fair to say LGI should 
offer more to account for the additional time they were without a camera as it was Mr K and 
his familys decision to wait for both claims to be settled. She also explained she was unable 
to consider LGIs complaints handling, as this wasnt a regulated activity so fell outside of our 
jurisdiction.
Mr K didnt agree and thought it was unreasonable for LGI to uphold his complaint but not 
increase their compensation offer. As Mr K remained unhappy, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint had on Mr K. Its not in dispute that LGI 
settled his claims outside of the 14-day time scale they work towards. And from what Ive 
seen, this resulted from an error LGI made when they failed to realise Mr Ks second claim 
was made at the same time as his first one. I understand the cameras were used by Mr Ks 
children and the delays meant they were unable to use their cameras for a longer period of 
time than was necessary.
LGI dont dispute they made an error. And they offered Mr K £20 to compensate Mr K for the 
inconvenience he and his family suffered. As LGI accept they made an error and the claims 
were delayed, I dont intend to discuss this further. The complaint has been passed to me as 
Mr K doesnt think the £20 LGI offered is a fair one to adequately address the loss of 
enjoyment his children suffered. So, my decision focuses on the offer LGI made and whether 
I think its fair given the circumstances.
Ive seen the first claim Mr K made was settled on 14 August 2020, which was 4 days 
outside of the 14-day period LGI state they try to settle claims within. Having looked at what 
happened during this claim, although it exceeded the time limit by 4 days, I think the actions 
LGI took were reasonable. Collection was arranged in a reasonable time period and the 
majority of the delay was caused by the repairer deciding whether it could be fixed. When 
LGI were made aware it couldnt be, they offered Mr K settlement options and his gift card 
was issued within two days of Mr K choosing that option. So, although it did take slightly 
longer than the time scale LGI worked towards, I dont think they did anything wrong.
But Ive seen there were unnecessary delays regarding the second claim. LGI have 
accepted there was some confusion around the second claim as it was initially processed 
under the first. This led to the camera not being referred to the repairer as soon as it should 
have been. And this led the claim being settled 14 days later than the 14-day time period LGI 
set. So, Mr K and his children were without a camera for longer than they needed to be, and 
I think this should be compensated for.
But I do think Mr K had the option to purchase another camera using the first gift card he 
received. And this wouldve meant his children had a camera to use while the other claim 
was ongoing. I appreciate Mr K and his children decided to use both settlements to purchase 
another one, but I think this was their own decision. And this decision meant they were 
without a working camera for a longer period of time than would most likely have been the 
case if the first gift card had been used.
So, having considered all of the above, I think the £20 LGI offered falls within the region of 
what I wouldve recommended had no offer been made. And because of this, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to direct LGI to offer anything more on this occasion. 
I recognise Mr Ks confusion about LGI upholding his complaint but not increasing the offer 
of compensation, but this isnt something LGI needed to do. They were entitled to uphold the 
complaint but maintain the offer previously made if they thought it was fair. So, I cant say 
theyve done anything wrong by doing so.Im also aware Mr K wanted to complain about the way LGI handled his complaint and in 
particular, their failure to respond to several e-mails he raised. But Im unable to consider 
this as this complaint refers to LGIs complaints handling, which isnt a regulated activity as 
set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. This sets out what we can and cant 
look at and as complaints handling isnt regulated, it falls outside of our jurisdiction to 
investigate.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping for. But I hope it goes some way to 
reassuring him the actions LGI took were fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about London General 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman