DRN-2650416
The complaint
Ms K complains that she was mis-sold an Additions Account (AA) in about May 1996 by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
Ms K says she was told by Barclays that she had to take out an AA to get an overdraft.
Barclays says it didnt tell her that as taking out an AA was never a condition for getting an 
overdraft.
Ms K had previously had a fee free account for many years, so she knew these were 
available. Fee free accounts with overdrafts were widely available and advertised from many 
banks and other financial institutions and I think its more likely than not that Ms K would 
have been aware of this. So, if Barclays had told her she had to have an AA to get an 
overdraft, I think she would have challenged this and looked elsewhere and found the fee 
free account with an overdraft that she says she wanted.
So, I think its more likely than not that Ms K knew she had a choice whether to take out the 
AA and she chose to do so.
This service is aware that Barclays sales in 1996 were non-advised, that is they didnt 
recommend the account to Ms K based on her circumstances. So, Barclays was only 
required to provided Ms K with enough information to make an informed decision whether to 
buy the AA or not.
And I think its more likely than not that it did. I say this because Barclays was trying to sell 
the AA to Ms K, so I think its likely it explained the benefits and costs in detail. And I can see 
why she would have been interested. Based on the account information Barclays has 
provided and Ms Ks interest in an overdraft, I think its more likely than not she was regularly 
running an overdraft. At the time of sale, having the AA meant that you avoided the £5 a 
month overdraft fee, so effectively all the benefits of the AA including purchase protection, 
cardholder protection and Life Assurance were free to her when using her overdraft. 
Barclays has provided statement evidence which shows she did benefit from the fee waiver 
and better interest rates on her overdraft over many years. And much later she appeared to 
be relying on other benefits too.
Ms K couldve closed the AA at any time but didnt and kept it for many years.
So, although I know she will be disappointed and I dont doubt her honest recollections, I 
think her memory is mistaken after the twenty plus years since the sale. And, in my view, its 
more likely than not that Ms K chose to take out the AA and Barclays didnt do anything 
wrong in the sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman