DRN-2341137
The complaint
Mr L complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management 
company.
What happened
This complaint is about an Egg credit card PPI policy taken out in August 2001. The policy 
was added to Mr Ls credit card account when he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed 
saying, in summary, that:
He and his partner had a savings account for their wedding which took place a few years 
before he took out the PPI. They continued to save money in this account.
He had endowment policies which he could have encashed, and his wife had an income 
that he could rely on.
He wasnt aware he had the PPI, didnt know he was paying for it, and couldnt have 
benefitted from it because he didnt know he had it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr L's complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr L's complaint because:
I think Canada Square Operations made Mr L aware that the PPI was optional and a 
separate product from the credit card, and that he chose to take it. I say this because the 
online application process included equally clear options to accept or decline the PPI and 
Mr L clicked the yes box to confirm that he wanted it. Im not surprised Mr L cant 
remember this as it took place so long ago.
Mr L says he didnt know he had PPI. I accept its possible that over the years he forgot 
hed taken the policy out. But Im not persuaded that he wasnt aware of it at the time.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L, so it didnt have to check 
if it was suitable for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square Operations gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But Mr L chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely, 
despite what he says now, that Mr L would have made a different decision at the time if 
better information had been provided. 
Ive taken into account that Mr L and his wife may have had some savings, but Im not 
persuaded, based on the information Ive seen, that his existing arrangements meant he 
didnt have a need for the PPI. I think it could still have given him peace of mind if he 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident, or if hed become unemployed. Although 
he told us he had two endowment policies, these were longer term investments and the 
PPI would have avoided the need to encash these before their maturity.
On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell 
Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman