DRN-1613776
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) caused delays in his claim on his motor 
insurance policy and then decided not to repair his car.
What happened
Mr Ws car was taken for repair following a claim. UKI then found that the car had an 
undisclosed modification. It agreed to continue with the policy, but it said the modification 
would need to be removed before repairs were carried out. Mr W said an agent told him 
these would take two weeks. An engineer then inspected the car and deemed it to be 
beyond economical repair. Mr W was unhappy that hed been told this when he expected the 
car to be repaired and with the delays in the claim. UKI agreed thered been a delay in the 
engineer inspecting the car. It offered Mr W £50 compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
initial delays were due to the disagreement about the modification. She thought Mr W had 
been caused frustration when he had the impression that the car would be repaired quickly. 
But she thought this wouldnt be known until after the engineers inspection. She thought UKI 
had delayed appointing an engineer and she thought its offer of £50 compensation for this 
was fair and reasonable. 
Mr W replied that the delays were unreasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W also complained about the valuation UKI placed on his car when it was deemed to be 
beyond economical repair. This has been raised as a separate complaint, so Im unable to 
consider that here. But I can look at whether UKI caused avoidable delays in Mr Ws claim 
and whether UKI went back on its promise to repair his car. 
I can see that there were some initial delays in removing the car from Mr Ws garage to the 
approved repairer. UKI paid Mr W £50 compensation for this.
There was then a delay whilst the situation regarding the undisclosed modification was 
resolved. I cant say that this was unavoidable as I think UKI wasnt aware of the 
modification until the garage reported it. So I cant say that it was wrong for UKI to put the 
claim on hold. 
UKI then had to discuss this with the policy underwriters. A decision was made to go head 
with the claim and Mr W was told he needed to remove the modification. It took UKI some 
time to make contact with Mr W to tell him this, but I cant say that was UKIs fault as it 
persisted with its attempts. 
UKI then appointed an engineer to inspect the car. But it took over two weeks, rather than 
the one week expected, for this to take place. UKI agreed that this had been an avoidable 
delay.
Mr W said hed been assured that the car would be repaired within two weeks. But I havent 
been able to locate evidence of this in UKIs files. I cant see that any promises were made 
to Mr W that the car would be repaired, though I can understand that he may have expected 
this. I think it was reasonable for UKI to have its engineer inspect the car first to see if repairs 
were economical. But UKI said it may not have made this clear enough to Mr W. It thought 
its communication could have been better.
UKI offered Mr W £50 for the trouble and upset this delay and lack of clear information 
caused him. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar 
situations. I dont require UKI to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman