DRN-2931337
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) irresponsibly lent to him and that he 
was pressured into taking his third loan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. In summary ELL lent Mr M three high cost loans, from the most recent information, 
Mr M has repaid the first two loans but theres an outstanding balance on loan three. Mr M 
has also said that he felt ELL pressured him into taking loan 3.
When this complaint was looked at by our adjudicator, she didnt think ELL was wrong to 
lend any of the loans. She also thought that she hadnt seen any evidence that Mr M was 
pressured into taking loan 3.
Mr M didnt dispute the findings on loans 1 and 2 but didnt agree that ELL responsibly lent 
him loan 3. Mr M said he had a payday loan at the time, and he couldnt afford loan 3.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ELL is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat 
them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr M 
would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
As Mr M accepts that loans 1 and 2 werent irresponsibly lent, I havent gone into detail 
about those loans as there isnt a continuing dispute, but having looked at the circumstances 
around the sale of those loans, I dont ELL was wrong to lend them to Mr M.
For loan 3, ELL carried out detailed checks, including a credit check and verifying Mr Ds 
income and expenses through his bank statements and his self-assessment results. I note 
that the self-assessment information he provided for the previous tax year shows that his 
average monthly income was around £4,195. Looking at the further information provided, 
there wasnt information in his credit file or bank statements that I think should have 
concerned ELL about his ability to sustainably repay the loan over its term. 
I appreciate that Mr M has said he had a payday loan which he was disputing with the lender 
at the time, but I dont think the presence of one payday loan would likely have meant that 
ELL decided not to lend to him. Overall, I dont think ELL was wrong to lend loan 3 to Mr M.
Ive listened to some of Mr Ms calls with ELL, Ive specifically listened to the call around the 
time he was looking to borrow loan 3. I can see he contacted ELL asking for a quote, which 
the agent gave him and towards the end of the call, the agent asked if he will be ok with a 
follow up within a few days to check whether he will be happy to continue the application and 
Mr M said he was fine with this. I note that when ELL gave Mr M a quote about this loan, he 
confirmed that his income was more than it was at the time of the previous two loans at 
about £5,000 and the payday loan was also discussed.
ELL contacted Mr M twice following the initial phone call, it contacted him on 30 January 
2019 and 5 February 2019, one phone call and the other an email. There was also an 
attempted call on 5 February 2019 but ELL didnt get to speak to Mr M. Taking all this into 
account, I dont think ELL pressured Mr M to take out this loan, I appreciate he was looking 
to buy a van but Im also aware from the telephone conversation that Mr M had other options 
for his loan.
Ive also listened to the call Mr M had with the ELL colleague while the branch manager was 
away, and I think the call could have been handled better. I appreciate that ELL was looking 
to update Mr M about his account, but it was also clear from that Mr M was unaware that his 
complaint had been responded to. I can see the branch manager apologised about this and 
provided an explanation when she returned, and I think that was sufficient in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate that my findings will likely disappoint Mr M as its clear he feels very strongly 
about his complaint but based on the available information, I wont be asking ELL to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman