DRN-1207911
Complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt process his request for a refund in a 
timely manner.
Background
Mr K has a FlexAccount with Nationwide. Nationwide issued him with a Visa debit card on 
the account and he used this to make an online payment for a purchase. The item didnt 
arrive. So, he contacted Nationwide to raise the dispute and see if it could process a refund. 
He says that Nationwide didnt deal with his request and he raised a complaint with it.
Nationwide agrees that it received his request for a refund but says that it needed further 
information before it could do anything. It says it sent Mr K two reminders asking for the 
additional information but it says that he didnt respond. Nationwide says that since more 
than 120 days had passed since the date of payment it wasnt possible to get a refund from 
the supplier. Nationwide says that Mr K has now provided evidence that he had responded 
to its request for further information. Nationwide says that it never received this but, in the 
circumstances, it has provided a full refund as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K says that Nationwide should compensate him for its failure to deal with his refund 
request in a timely manner and for the poor service that he received. Nationwide disagrees 
and so Mr K referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He didnt uphold the complaint. He said that whilst 
Nationwide could have done more to keep Mr K informed about what was happening with his 
refund request, there was no guarantee that the request wouldve been successful. He 
decided that Nationwide had been fair and reasonable in its response to Mr Ks complaint 
and there was nothing more that he would expect it to do. Mr K disagreed with our 
investigators decision and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
Mr K used his card to make an online purchase but he didnt receive the items. Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions and they say that in these circumstances Mr K couldnt cancel the 
payment after it had been authorised but the retailer or supplier might be able to make a 
refund. Its not clear what action Mr K took to try to get a refund from the supplier but I can 
see that he contacted Nationwide to ask it to pursue a refund for him.
Nationwide wouldve tried to recover the payment using the chargeback scheme. This is a 
voluntary code  its not a right and its not guaranteed to recover the money. Nationwide 
says that any chargeback requests under the scheme have to be submitted no later than 
120 days after the date that the payment was authorised. To start the chargeback process Nationwide wouldve needed to get all of the information 
about the purchase that Mr K had made. I can see that Nationwide sent electronic messages 
to Mr K reminding him that it needed further information. He says that he sent the 
information but Nationwide doesnt appear to have received it. It was only after Mr K 
complained that Nationwide was able to look at the information he says he provided to it. By 
that stage it was too late to make a chargeback under the scheme. But the fact is, in an 
effort to resolve matters, Nationwide refunded the full amount to Mr Ks account , as a 
goodwill gesture. I can also see that the refund has an effective date which is the same date 
as the original payment, which is as much as Id expect them to do.
I can understand why Mr K feels strongly that Nationwide didnt deal with his request 
properly but I agree with our investigator that once the matter was brought to its attention it 
treated him fairly and reasonably. So I dont expect it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020
 
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman