DRN-2277645
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W represented by their solicitor require us to investigate the legal entitlement of 
Arrow Global Limited to enforce the terms of a loan, the benefit of which Arrow says was 
transferred to it in 2016
What happened
This complaint relates to the assignment of a lenders interest in a secured loan between a 
number of firms. Where these lenders arent party to the complaint, Ive anonymised them in 
this decision. 
Mr and Mrs W took out a non-regulated loan secured by a second charge in 1998 with a 
lender I shall call Lender O. The loan was secured against Mr and Mrs Ws property initially 
in the name of a lender I shall call Lender I. In 2016 a lender I shall call Lender H purported 
to transfer its interest in the loan to Arrow Global. Mr and Mrs W through their representative 
want us to investigate the legal entitlement of Arrow Global to enforce this loan. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Her view was that under 
the rules that determine our jurisdiction we could not consider complaints about this loan 
before 2014. She didnt think Arrow were acting unfairly by enforcing the loan.
 Mr and Mr W through their representative disagreed saying that the original loan was 
unenforceable ab initio and cannot be enforced by subsequent assignees. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W through their legal representative want us to investigate this complaint to 
determine whether Arrow Global is legally entitled to enforce this loan. The solicitors view is 
that as the original loan was unenforceable, subsequent assignments are void. Mr and Mrs 
W say that Lender O wasnt a UK registered company and have issues with the subsequent 
assignments of a debt owed to Lender O. 
   
We are an informal dispute resolution service set up by statute and tasked with determining 
complaints between companies that supply financial services to consumers.  We are not 
tasked to determine the legal entitlement of a lender to enforce a loan agreement. That is for 
a court to decide. My role is to come to a decision on a dispute based on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I have to determine whether Arrow Global can fairly 
require Mr and Mrs W to pay monies to this loan. 
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor questions how the loan was set up and who the original lender was. 
It was only after March 2014 that this loan came within our jurisdiction. So, I cant look at any 
complaints about the sale of the loan to Mr and Mrs W in 1998 and how the loan was 
administered before March 2014.
 
In 2016 it seems that Lender H, a large organisation with multiple associated companies 
sold a loan book to Arrow Global and Arrow Global acquired the lenders rights under those 
loan agreements. Lender H wrote on 20 June 2016 advising of the transfer and Arrow Global 
also wrote on 1 July 2016 to say that the transfer would be effective on 4 July 2016. Later in 
the year, Arrow Global registered in the Land Registers as holder of the charge dated 17 
September 1998 in respect of the loan which had been registered in the name of Lender I.
 
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor questions whether Lender H acquired the loan to be able to transfer 
it. I believe it did. As our investigator has set out Lender H acquired Lender I and all its 
holdings in 2001 and administered the loan thereafter and so was able to, and did transfer 
the debt owed to it by Mr and Mrs W. But also, Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor writing to the 
solicitors for Lender H says in his letter of 14 February 2019 that the loan originated with 
Lender H which on 15 September 1998 loaned to his clients the sum of £33,812.50. In this 
complaint Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor makes the case that the original lender wasnt Lender H, 
and it doesnt appear to have been so. But its clear from that letter that Mr and Mrs Ws 
solicitor doesnt dispute that money was owed to Lender H under this loan, the benefit of 
which was then transferred to Arrow Global. Indeed, that letter refers to a dispute about what 
was actually owed which wasnt raised in this complaint but there isnt a dispute that money 
was owed. 
 
If I go back to what is fair and reasonable, Mr and Mrs W agree that money was borrowed 
and was then owed to Lender H. Lender H seems to have transferred its interest in the loan 
properly to Arrow Global. So, I believe that Arrow Global can fairly require the repayment of 
any money still owing on the loan from Mr and Mrs W. On that basis I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman