DRN-2887689
The complaint
Miss H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) has unfairly and irresponsibly 
allowed a loan to be taken out in her name.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Miss H was accepted for a £25,000 loan across ten years through Tesco, with 
monthly repayments of around £340.
Miss H complained, alleging the loan was taken out by a former partner (Mr A). She 
said she gave him consent for the application to go ahead, but says she was coerced 
into it. She says Mr A took £20,000 of this sum, and left her with £5,000. Their 
personal relationship ended, but shes said Mr A has continued to give her the money 
for each of the monthly payments since. She says if Tesco had carried out sufficient 
checks during this application, it wouldve been clear the loan was unaffordable and 
the details provided were wrong.
Tesco said it had assessed the application using two credit reference agencies 
(CRA) and she met its internal scoring system. It also said Miss H had no existing 
debt and based on the income recorded the payments were affordable.
Tesco considered her complaint about coercion, but said it didnt appear this had 
been the case. It said she was in a relationship with Mr A at the time of the 
application. And it wasnt disputed that £5,000 of the loan went into her own account. 
Tesco also told Miss H to report any fraud to the police and said it would reconsider 
the matter if she provided any evidence of formal action. But she disagreed, saying 
this could impact Mr A continuing to make repayments, and raised concerns about 
her personal safety if she were to do so. 
Miss H brought this complaint to this service, saying Tesco should write off the loan. 
Our investigator didnt agree. While he believed Tesco shouldve carried out further 
checks in the circumstances, he wasnt persuaded it should write off the debt or take 
any further action. He said this as Miss H never returned the £5,000 of the loan 
received so he felt she had benefitted from the arrangement. And as all repayments 
had been met with the funds provided by Mr A, he didnt think it would be fair to direct 
Tesco to do anything further. But the investigator said if this situation changed then 
Tesco should reconsider the matter. 
Miss H disagreed  saying again that Tesco had acted unfairly. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.
Our investigator has previously outlined in detail why he felt the checks carried out by 
Tesco were not proportionate in this particular case. But even if I agreed Tesco 
shouldve completed further checks, Im not satisfied this would change anything in 
the circumstances of this particular. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that Mr A has continued to provide Miss H with the ongoing funds to 
meet each monthly repayment. So, it seems these loan repayments havent come at 
a financial cost to Miss H or put her into financial difficulty. And theres no dispute 
that Miss H received £5,000 of the funds herself which she hasnt paid back. For this 
reason, Im satisfied she has benefited from the loan being in place. So, I dont agree 
it would be fair for Tesco to write off the loan as a result. 
Ive also thought about Tescos actions when Miss H raised concerns about Mr As 
actions. Tesco said there wasnt sufficient evidence to support she had been 
coerced. It said this was because of Miss Hs lack of contact with relevant authorities, 
and because Miss H still had a significant sum of the loan in her possession. 
Im satisfied Tesco acted fairly in considering this matter. It reached out to Miss H 
offering funds for a new phone when she said her own phone was monitored  which 
was declined. And it said it would reconsider the matter if Miss H provided formal 
evidence of her referring the matter to the authorities. 
While Ive carefully considered Miss Hs own reasons for not contacting the police, 
this doesnt persuade me Tescos requests were unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Tescos collections team has also sought to speak to Miss H about affordable 
repayments, but I understand shes declined to speak to them.
For all of these reasons, Im satisfied Tesco doesnt need to do anything further. 
Should Miss Hs circumstances change in the future, or if she did provide evidence of 
formally reporting this matter to the authorities, Id expect it to reconsider her situation 
as it has said it would.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman