DRN-3190639
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy at the interest and charges Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) added to her 
overdraft over the years.
What happened
Mrs W complained to Lloyds that it levied excessive charges on her account when she was 
in financial difficulty. Lloyds says all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and reached the conclusion Lloyds hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mrs W unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs W disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mrs W raised her complaint in February 2021 in relation to charges applied to her overdraft 
dating back to 2001. Six years before she raised her complaint is February 2015. And as the 
charges for use of the overdraft wouldve been notified to Mrs W at the time they were being 
applied, I think she ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or 
causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Mrs W ought to be 
reasonably aware she had reason to complaint provides her with a longer period than the six 
year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied from February 2015.
I can still look into Mrs Ws complaint about overdraft charges outside this time if Im satisfied 
the failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Mrs W has told us that 
over the years she has had to support and care for family members when they suffered ill 
health as well as having her own illnesses. 
I sympathise with Mrs W and I accept that she has had a lot to cope with over the years. But 
in coming to my decision I have to be fair to both Mrs W and Lloyds and what I have to 
decide is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Mrs W wouldve prevented her from 
referring her complaint earlier had she chosen to do so.
I have thought carefully about everything she has told us about her circumstances during
the relevant period and that Mrs W had previously raised a complaint about charges back in 
2007. The charges she is mainly complaining about were applied over 14 years ago around 
the time she first raised her complaint. 
I accept Mrs W may not have had a full response from Lloyds in regards to the charges 
applied to her account in 2007 and I understand why referring the complaint may not have 
been a priority for Mrs W with everything else that was happening in her life. But I dont think 
her circumstances prevented her from bringing her complaint to us and I think she still could 
have referred her complaint about the charges incurred from 2001 within the time limits, 
especially as it only takes an email or telephone call to do so.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply so I am unable to look at 
charges applied before February 2015. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mrs W has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to her account. But before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Lloydss various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs W if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mrs Ws account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs W was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mrs W fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mrs W unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mrs Ws statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Lloyds ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it 
being notified of this. Indeed, in the years Ive looked at, Mrs W very rarely if at all went into 
overdraft and mainly had a healthy credit balance in her account. 
So I cant say there is anything which ought to have alerted Lloyds to any potential financial 
difficulty. And in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mrs Ws account was 
being used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mrs W unfairly or 
unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman