DRN-2335407
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc havent refunded a cashback reward to him after he 
repaid his loan. 
What happened
Mr J took out a £15,000 loan with HSBC in March 2015. He initially agreed to make a 
monthly payment on 30th of every month or immediately after this date. The loan agreement 
entitled Mr J to claim a cashback award of 10% of the total interest that was charged over 
the term of the loan. In order to qualify for this reward, Mr J had to make all his payments on 
time and couldnt repay the loan or part of it early.  
On 30 October 2017 HSBC tried to take a loan payment from Mr Js HSBC account. This 
was returned due to not enough money being available. On 31 October 2017 HSBC wrote to 
him to tell him why the payment had been returned.
Mr J repaid the loan in full on 10 February 2020. In April 2020 he contacted HSBC to ask for 
the 10% cashback reward. When HSBC said he didnt qualify for the reward he made a 
complaint. On 27 April 2020 HSBC sent a final response to Mr J saying he didnt qualify for 
the reward because he had made late payments in October 2017 and January 2019. 
Mr J was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he 
had to change the date he made the payments due to a change to his employment and the 
date he was paid. So, he asked HSBC to move the monthly repayment date. 
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he was satisfied Mr J 
hadnt made the payment on time, so he didnt qualify for the 10% cashback reward. 
Mr J disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr J feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
The issue for me to consider here is whether Mr J made his payments on time and decide if 
HSBC has fairly declined his request for the 10% cashback reward. 
The agreement was for Mr J to make a payment on 30th of each month or immediately after 
where applicable. Ive reviewed the loan statements which show the monthly payments Mr J 
made. I can see he made a late payment in October 2017 because he didnt have enough 
money in his account. HSBC wrote to him to make him aware there wasnt enough money in 
his account to make the payment. So, Im satisfied this was a late payment. 
I note Mr J says he changed employer so asked HSBC for his payment to be moved as he 
was being paid on a different date in the month. According to the loan statements, Mr Js 
monthly payment did change to 8th of each month in June 2018. But Ive seen he then made 
another late payment after this in January 2019. 
Both sides accept there was a 10% cashback reward associated with this loan. HSBC has 
provided an extract which shows there were certain terms and conditions in order to qualify 
for the reward. Im satisfied that Mr J hasnt met these conditions due to the late payments 
Ive mentioned above. And I dont consider HSBC applying conditions such as the ones it 
has here as unfair or unreasonable because these are standard conditions when a customer 
takes out a loan with a bank they already hold an account with. 
So, Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman