DRN-2263614
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Link Financial Outsourcing Limited chasing him for a debt which 
he feels shouldve been covered by a previous Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account which Link began managing in 2011.
In 2013, Mr S complained about the sale of his PPI to the original creditor. In 2015, the 
original creditor agreed that the PPI had been mis-sold. Theyve since given Mr S a full 
refund, to put him in the position he wouldve been in had the PPI never existed.
In 2019, Mr S complained about Link, saying it was unfair they were chasing him for this 
debt as it shouldve been covered by his PPI policy. He also felt they were harassing him. 
And he was unhappy with the original creditor passing on the debt.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained that Link werent responsible for the original creditors actions in passing on the 
debt, or in selling or administering the PPI. And he didnt think Links contact had been 
excessive.
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I understand that Mr S is unhappy with things the original creditor did, such as the way they 
sold the PPI policy and dealt with his PPI claim, and them passing on the debt. I understand 
hed like us to look at this as part of his complaint against Link. But we cannot. Link are a 
separate business to the original creditor, and are not responsible for the original creditors 
actions.
If Mr S is unhappy with what the original creditor did, then he would have to make a 
complaint about them directly  though I understand he is out of time to do so.
While Link are not responsible for this PPI policy, I think it will be helpful if I explain to Mr S 
how PPI refunds work, as its relevant to his concerns.
When we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold, we expect the business who sold it to put 
their customer in the financial position they wouldve been in had the policy never existed.
If the PPI had never existed, then Mr S would never have paid for it. Thats why the original 
creditor refunded what hed paid for the PPI. They also added simple interest on top, to 
compensate Mr S for the time where he was out of pocket.
Equally, if the PPI had never existed, then Mr S would never have been able to claim on it. 
So now that Mr S has received a full refund of his PPI, he cannot also make an insurance 
claim on it.
In other words, Mr S cannot both have the policy be treated like it never existed  and get a 
refund, but also have the policy be treated like it did exist  and put through an insurance 
claim.
Again, though, I will reiterate that Link are not responsible for this PPI policy.
Link are responsible for their own actions in collecting the debt. Ive thought carefully about 
what Link did, as I know Mr S feels they harassed him. But while I understand it can feel 
stressful being chased for a debt, Link do have a legitimate reason to be getting in touch with 
Mr S. Its reasonable for them to ask him to pay back the debt he owes, or to send him 
updates when hes behind. Indeed, some of this correspondence is things they had to send 
him. From what Ive seen, I dont think Link have communicated with Mr S particularly 
excessively or unreasonably.
I hope I can reassure Mr S that Link still have a duty to deal with him appropriately in 
collecting the debt. He might want to get in touch with Link to see what assistance they might 
be able to offer him. Ive also sent him the details for charities who can give him free help 
and advice in dealing with his debts. And he can always get back in touch with our service 
as a separate complaint if he subsequently feels that Link arent taking his situation into 
account when working out how to repay the debt affordably.
But as things stand now, I have not found that Link have acted unfairly, and I think its 
reasonable for them to ask Mr S to repay the debt he owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman