DRN-1544308
The complaint
Mr S complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line mis-sold his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was unfortunately damaged while parked when he was abroad. When he made a 
claim to UKI, he discovered that his policy didnt provide comprehensive cover for driving 
abroad but was for third party cover only. 
He said he understood comprehensive cover to include driving abroad. He felt that UKI 
didnt properly inform him that comprehensive cover would only apply to driving in the UK or 
that he would need to upgrade the policy for driving abroad. He felt that this was a limitation 
and UKI should have made it clear. He said hed mentioned driving abroad during a call with 
UKIs agent and this should have prompted them to alert him to the policys limitations for 
that. He felt that they hadnt sold him a fully comprehensive policy and that theyd misled him 
and other customers. He was also unhappy that they didnt call him back.
UKI said they had followed the correct process when they set up the policy. They said that 
this was a non-advised sale, meaning that they had not given any advice on buying the 
policy and it was up to Mr S to check the policy to ensure that it met his needs. 
They said the policy terms were clear that it provided comprehensive cover for driving in the 
UK, and minimum cover only in certain specified other countries, but comprehensive cover 
for driving abroad was available on request at an additional cost. They didnt agree that their 
agent should have brought the policys territorial limits to Mr Ss attention. However they paid 
him £30 compensation for not calling him back, and a £200 payment towards repairing his 
car as a goodwill gesture. But he wanted them to make a more significant offer towards his 
repair costs and to compensate him for his time and effort in complaining. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
UKI had acted fairly and reasonably. The policy documentation was clear and cover relating 
to travelling abroad was not a significant policy term and so was not something we would 
expect an insurer to highlight at the quote stage or in the call. 
 
Mr S didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has given UKI and us a very detailed analysis of his understanding of UKIs policy 
information and sales process on these issues and of relevant consumer legislation. I have 
read that in full and listened to his phone call with UKIs agent.
He says that UKI failed to inform him of the policys territorial limits and that the policy 
automatically reduced insurance cover when the vehicle was driven abroad. He wants them 
to improve their online and phone sales process. He thinks that because of the volume of 
traffic between the UK and overseas every day that UKI and other insurers should provide 
clear information that comprehensive car insurance didnt include driving abroad and that it 
is limited to UK cover. 
As the investigator explained, its not our role to punish a business or make them change 
their sales process. Rather we investigate whether theyve done anything wrong in any 
individual case and whether they need to do anything to put that right. The investigator also 
explained that insurance policy sales can be advised or non-advised. An advised sale 
means that UKI check that policy is suitable for Mr Ss needs. However as this was a non-
advised sale, its up to Mr S to check this.
 
The investigator also explained that its insurance industry practice that comprehensive 
cover means comprehensive in the UK. So we dont think that not providing comprehensive 
cover for driving abroad is an exclusion or a drop in comprehensive cover. Rather its an 
extra feature which a consumer may usually add on if they wish. This is standard industry 
practice and we dont think its unfair.
Mr S said that the online quotation process didnt explain the territorial limits. It didnt warn 
him about it not comprehensively covering driving abroad. However we wouldnt expect a 
quote to cover this issue as we dont think its an exclusion from comprehensive cover. And I 
can see that the quote included an accessible link to the policy terms and conditions which 
will apply, so I think that Mr S did have the chance to read these first. 
During the call with their agent while discussing an additional option of legal protection 
cover, Mr S asked her Would that cover you for an accident abroad, for instance? and she 
answered that it would. He felt that this should have prompted her to tell him that his policy 
didnt include comprehensive cover driving abroad. But I dont think that it was reasonable to 
expect what he said there to prompt the agent to do that. Again, as we dont think that 
driving abroad is a normal feature of a comprehensive policy, this isnt something wed 
expect her to mention. As it was not an advised sale, there was no requirement for UKI to 
check that the policy did meet all Mr Ss needs. 
Its clear from the call that the agent did say that UKI would send him the full policy terms 
and conditions and that he should read them and ensure that they met his needs. If not, he 
had the option to cancel within 14 days. I also note that the motor proposal confirmation says 
please check that this policy meets your needs and indicates that the insured accepts the 
insurance subject to terms and conditions set out in the Policy I have received. 
Mr S felt that the policy documents were not clear about this. He felt that where they referred 
to comprehensive it should state that this did not include driving abroad, and that failure to 
do that was a critical limitation to the comprehensive cover. He thought that the documents 
didnt indicate that he would find the key clauses in the policy booklet, and it was too difficult 
to find the territorial limits and foreign use clauses in that.
However on the document which provides a summary of the cover, it says You can upgrade 
your policy to give you the same cover in the EU (see policy because of a list of countries). If 
you want to upgrade please ring us.
On the next page it says You are covered in Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Republic of 
Ireland, the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands. If you want cover in other countries. call 
us to upgrade at an additional cost. The policy booklet on Page 16 explains the policys territorial limits and that it also provides 
the minimum cover needed by law to use a car in certain other countries. It goes on to say:
 
3. Extending your policy cover abroad
For an extra premium, your policy can be extended for an agreed period to provide the same 
level, under section B, C and D as you have in the territorial limits, (providing you currently 
have this cover  please refer to your schedule).Your car will also be covered during 
journeys between those countries by a recognised carrier. However you must call us to 
arrange cover. 
I think that this is clear that UKI are providing comprehensive cover only for driving in the UK 
as defined and that if comprehensive cover is wanted for travelling abroad that is available 
for an extra cost, as is standard within the insurance industry. And so I dont think that UKI 
have done anything wrong.
 
And though Mr S feels that UKI admitted that we mis-sold the policy, the documents arent 
clear and youve not received call-backs, I dont agree that theyre admitting anything in that 
letter. They are simply listing his complaints to set the context for their reply.
 
I do think its very unfortunate that Mr Ss car was damaged abroad and that he had such a 
large repair bill, of nearly £5,000. I can see why he is unhappy, as this was through no fault 
of his own. I also see he has found the situation very frustrating. But I dont agree that this is 
UKIs fault. I dont think that they did mislead him, and I think that they acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with their policy. They offered him £30 compensation for not calling 
him back and I think that is fair compensation for that inconvenience. They also sent him a 
£200 goodwill gesture to go towards repairing his car. In my view that was fair of them when 
they dont need to do anything about his car repair. This means that, in all the 
circumstances, I dont require UKI to do anything else.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
