DRN-1427281
 
The complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when he took out a store 
card in March 2001.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. 
What happened
In March 2001 Mr C applied for a store card by completing an application form. At the same 
time he was sold a PPI policy to protect his card payments.
The policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mr C owed on his store card. The policy would 
have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr C couldnt work 
because he had an accident, was unwell or lost his job. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint comes to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C complaint.
Mr C told us that shop assistant ticked the box for PPI, he said he didnt tick the box himself. 
So, Ive looked carefully at the copy of the agreement that Mr C signed, and Ive noted that 
there wasnt a box to tick for PPI. But I can see that Mr C signed the agreement twice  once 
for the store card and another time for PPI. If he didnt want to take out the PPI, I think Mr C 
couldve chosen not to sign the relevant section of the agreement. 
Ive also noted that two other sections of the application form werent completed indicating 
he didnt want two other optional features  card protection and an additional card holder. So 
I think Mr C knew the policy was optional and chose to take it. And as this was a monthly 
policy and wouldve appeared on his monthly store card statements, Mr C couldve cancelled 
it at any time if he didnt want it or he found it unaffordable.
Theres limited information available to me about what happened at the time of sale. So I 
dont know what may or may not have been said. Given the information I do have, Ive not 
seen enough to make me think AXA advised Mr C to take out the PPI. This means AXA 
didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr C circumstances. But it still had to 
provide him with clear information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to take it 
out - I cant say that AXA did this.I dont know exactly what information Mr C received about the policy at the time of sale. 
Even if I were to accept that Mr C wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I 
dont think this would have affected his decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Mr C was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for him to make a claim  he told us 
he was employed and in good health. Mr C says he wouldve received some sick pay if he 
wasnt working  but I think the policy couldve proved useful to Mr C if he had an accident, 
became ill or lost his job. It wouldve paid out in addition to any occupational sick pay and for 
longer. He could also have benefitted from life cover and price and purchase protection.
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mr C to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But taking everything into account, I think if      
Mr C had properly understood the cost and benefit provided, he wouldve thought the policy 
potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance 
was cleared and the monthly cost does not seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont think AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to Mr C. But I 
think he knew he had a choice about taking the PPI and I think he would still have taken out 
the cover if hed been properly informed about it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman