DRN-3095311
The complaint
Mrs E, Miss E, Mr E and Miss E complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr E booked a holiday for his family. They were due to travel in June 2020 and Mr E took out 
an insurance policy, underwritten by URV, to cover the trip in late February 2020. On 
17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but essential travel as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. That guidance remained 
in place until Mr Es planned departure date and the airline cancelled their flight. So, the 
holiday didnt go ahead.
Mr E tried to get a refund from the travel provider but was unsuccessful. He claimed on his 
travel insurance policy but the claim was declined on the basis that it wasnt covered by the 
policy terms and conditions. Unhappy, Mr E made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that 
whilst changes to FCDO advice werent covered under the policy terms this was clearly and 
transparently set out within the policy terms. 
Mr E didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said the 
investigators analysis wasnt acceptable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that 
insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken 
these rules and guidance into account when considering this complaint. Ive also had regard 
to the relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).  
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. The IPID relating to this policy, at the top of page 
one, says;
The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the contract 
which can be found in your policy documentation. The agreed sums insured are 
specified in your policy schedule. 
And, also on page two it says: 
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel.   
The Policy Terms and Conditions
Page 11 of the policy sets out the general conditions and exclusions applying to the policy. It 
excludes: 
You travelling against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure.
On page 12 the section entitled Cancellation  If you are unable to go on your trip sets out 
the circumstances under which URV will pay for pre-paid costs, which cannot be recovered 
from any other source. These are if the policyholder is unable to travel because;
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or 
dies before the trip starts.  
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts. 
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you or a travel companion have been made redundant. 
of the requirements of HM forces.
Underneath, on the same page, it says: 
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
applicable at the time of your departure.
Was the claim declined unfairly? 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The trip was cancelled due to circumstances entirely outside of Mr Es control. 
But the trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons specified on page 12 of the 
policy. Cancellation due to a change in FCO advice isnt a valid reason for a 
cancellation claim to be paid under the policy. It isnt a listed, insured event for 
which cover is provided under the terms of the policy.
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy 
documentation wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy 
exclusions, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim 
outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the case 
here for the reasons Ill go on to explain. I think a customer might reasonably expect a restriction such as the exclusion of 
cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCDO advice to be 
prominent in the IPID. However, Ive also considered the policy terms and 
conditions which form the contract of insurance between Mr E and URV. As Ive 
outlined above the exclusion in relation to the lack of cover for the advice or 
recommendation of the FCDO was referred to in the general summary of 
conditions and exclusions. It was also specifically highlighted in the cancellation 
section of the policy. 
Mr E says that his primary motivation for taking out the policy was the promise of 
£3000 cancellation cover. But, as Ive outlined, above the IPID and policy 
documentation draw attention to the limitations on the cover offered under the 
policy. I dont think that the policy documentation and contract of insurance 
amounted to a promise to pay £3000 in the event that the trip was cancelled. As 
with any travel insurance policy there are limitations and exclusions on the cover. 
The policy documentation sets out the relevant exclusions and limitations that 
apply. 
Although Mr E and his family may have been in the position of having no cover 
under this policy if they travelled and also having no cover if they cancelled, I 
think these exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms and 
conditions of this policy. It was up to Mr E to ensure he had the level of cover he 
required to meet his needs and if he wanted cover for cancellation due to 
changes in FCDO advice, its likely he couldve found another policy on the 
market which wouldve covered the situation he found himself in. 
Mr E has also made a number of comments about the sale of the policy. Thats a 
separate matter to the claim being declined and Mr E will need to make a 
complaint to the business responsible for the sale of the policy, if he still 
considers that the policy was mis-sold to him   
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV 
to accept this claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E, Miss E, Mr 
E and Miss E to accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman