DRN-3209785
The complaint
Mr K complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk was 
irresponsible in its lending to him.
Mr K is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr K 
throughout. 
What happened
Mr K was provided with three loans by MoneyBoat in May and June 2021. The details of the 
loans are recorded below.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 06/05/2021 11/05/2021 6 £800.00
2 17/05/2021 29/05/2021 6 £1,500.00
3 18/06/2021 open 6 £1,500.00
Mr K says that adequate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided and that 
had they been MoneyBoat would have seen he had other loans outstanding and that his 
pattern of borrowing showed it wasnt responsible providing him with more credit.
MoneyBoat says that before the loans were provided it carried out credit and affordability 
checks. It says it confirmed Mr Ks employment and he recorded a monthly income of 
£1,680. Information about Mr Ks expenses was also gathered, and this amount was 
increased for the assessment. It says based on its checks the loan repayments were 
affordable and noted that Mr K repaid two of the loans early. 
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough to say that the first loan shouldnt have been 
provided but he didnt think that loans two and three should have been lent. He noted the 
timing and size of the second loan and that the repayments represented a significant 
proportion of Mr Ks monthly income. He thought there was a significant risk that Mr K 
wouldnt be able to sustainably afford the repayments on this and the subsequent loan. 
MoneyBoat didnt accept our adjudicators view. It challenged the comment that the 
repayments represented a significant portion of Mr Ks income and said that Mr K had 
sufficient disposable income to cover the repayments. It didnt accept that the other 
information referred to in our adjudicators view meant the loans shouldnt have been 
provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the 
repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Mr Ks first loan was for £800 with six monthly repayments of around £227. Before the loan 
was provided a credit check took place and while I can see there was adverse information 
recorded on Mr Ks credit file, I do not think this alone was enough to say the loan shouldnt 
have been provided. Considering the size of the repayments compared to Mr Ks income 
and that this was his first loan with MoneyBoat, I think the checks carried out at this stage 
were proportionate. As the checks suggested the loan was affordable for Mr K I do not find I 
have enough to say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr K repaid his first loan and requested a second loan less than a week later. This loan was 
for £1,500, almost twice as much as the first loan. I think repaying a loan early and then 
taking out a much larger loan a few days later should have raised concerns that Mr K may 
be struggling to manage his money. The second loan was repayable over six monthly 
instalments of £480. Mr Ks income at the time was recorded as £1,680 and so his 
repayments accounted for a significant portion of his income. I think the timing of the loan, 
the loan amount, and the repayments compared to Mr Ks income should have raised 
concerns that Mr K wouldnt be able to sustainably repay this loan and so lending to him at 
this time wasnt responsible.
Mr K repaid loan two and took out another loan for the same amount shortly after. I have 
nothing to suggest that Mr Ks financial situation had improved significantly between loan two 
being repaid and loan three being provided. As with loan two, the repayments on loan three 
accounted for a significant amount of Mr Ks monthly income. Therefore, I do not think it 
reasonable that this loan was provided.
Overall, I think that loans two and three shouldnt have been provided.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr K after loan one, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I am upholding this complaint in regard to loans two and three, Evergreen Finance 
London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should take the following actions:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr K paid on loan two along with interest of 8% 
simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
On the basis that loan three is still outstanding, MoneyBoat should remove all 
interest, fees and charges from the balance and treat any repayments made by Mr K 
as though they had been repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr K having 
made overpayments then these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled. 
If a balance remains on loan three, the refund from loan two can be used to offset 
this. It there is still an outstanding balance, MoneyBoat should work with Mr K to set 
up an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information relating to loans two and three from Mr Ks credit 
file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans two and three. Evergreen 
Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should take the actions set out above 
in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman