DRN-2620932
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt do enough to prevent 
him falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
Between September 2014 and December 2016, Mr R made several payments to what he 
believed at the time to be an investment firm Ill refer to as Z. The payments were sent from 
his account with Nationwide and totalled nearly £250,000. Most of the payments were 
instructed through online banking. The last three payments to Z were international payments 
and were for £20,000 each. There was also a £10,000 credit to Mr Rs account which 
appears to have come from Z in March 2017. 
A few weeks after the final £20,000 payment in December 2016 Nationwide contacted Mr R. 
They said they had concerns about the account to which hed sent that money. They 
explained that there can be invoice interception scams and investment scams involving the 
impersonation of genuine firms. They asked that Mr R contact Z using publicly available 
contact details to confirm that he was happy the payments hed sent went to the right 
account.
Mr R was understandably concerned but said that he felt it was a genuine investment for a 
variety of reasons including having attended Zs office in London  which he was told had 
been there for eight or nine years. He also said he was in regular contact with his account 
manager and could see his investments through his online platform. 
In 2019, Mr R complained to Nationwide. By this point hed become aware that he had been 
the victim of a scam in relation to his payments to Z. Mr R says hed been trying to get hold 
of Z without success and that hed also been contacted by the police. Mr R said that the 
phone call in 2016 indicated that Nationwide clearly knew there was a problem with Z, but 
they failed to intervene and failed to protect him. He would like Nationwide to reimburse him 
his loss. 
Nationwide responded to the complaint but didnt feel theyd made any error. Mr R referred 
the matter to our service and one of our investigators thought the complaint should be 
upheld in part. He recommended that around £140,000 plus interest be returned to Mr R. 
Nationwide didnt make clear whether they accepted that outcome or not and so the matter 
was passed to me to decide. In March 2021, I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr R has had to contact us in these circumstances. And I cant begin to imagine 
the impact of losing such a significant amount of money. My role here is to consider Mr Rs 
complaint. I accept hes been the victim of a cruel scam, but I need to decide if Nationwide 
failed to do enough to protect him from the loss he suffered and what if anything ought to be 
done to put things right. Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Nationwide need to do 
anything further. I understand that Im delivering a very difficult message in this provisional 
decision and Id like to reassure Mr R that Ive carefully considered his complaint and will 
carefully consider any submissions he makes in response to this provisional decision.
Mr R has told our service of the extensive checks he made about Z prior to and early on 
whilst investing with them. These include:
reviewing their impressive website;
reading positive reviews from established financial news businesses;
checking that Z were registered as a UK company with no alerts from the FCA;
physically visiting the London office and meeting the asset manager;
checking with the main reception at the shared London office how long Z had been there and 
being told it was many years.
Mr R also says that he received very credible brochures and documentation in relation to his 
investment and that he had to provide proof of identity etc. as he would for any other 
genuine investment. He had an online account and on occasions hed queried some interest 
payments which had been quickly resolved and updated. He had made successful 
withdrawals from his investment. In his own words Mr R said In short I had done all the 
checks I could possibly have done and [Z] appeared a very legitimate company.
Mr R says that following the contact from Nationwide in 2016 he spoke to his asset manager 
and was told that some banks were trying to cause issues. He said he asked to withdraw 
money from Z at which point contact with the asset manager became disjointed before 
ceasing altogether although his online account was still being updated. 
During his call when he raised the complaint with Nationwide Mr R said it had started to 
become apparent that it was likely to be a scam around a year earlier. But hed found it so 
difficult to deal with that he didnt initially want to believe it  he describes how it had quite an 
impact on his mental health. He says he was prompted to complain by publicity about 
voluntary codes being introduced through which banks might reimburse money lost to fraud. 
Banks (and building societies) have longstanding obligations to look out for their customers 
best interests and to be alert to instances of fraud. But transactions of the type Mr R made to 
Z werent particularly unusual for Mr Rs account with Nationwide. For example, in a single 
month in 2014 (prior to the first payment to Z) over £65,000 of genuine payments were made 
from the account. This included an individual payment of £35,000.
But importantly, even if I were to conclude that at some point in the series of payments Mr R 
made to Z that Nationwide ought to have intervened and checked with him that he wasnt at 
risk of financial harm, Im not persuaded that this would have made a difference in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
This is because of the extensive checks Mr R made in relation to the authenticity of Z, along 
with his reluctance to accept that this was a scam when warned about this possibility in 
December 2016. I dont think there would have been anything Nationwide could have said to 
Mr R that would have resulted in him discovering the scam sooner and would have 
prevented his loss. Even if Nationwide had asked questions about the investment and 
provided warnings about the common scams involved, I think the fact that Mr R had 
attended Zs offices and met his account manager and had successfully been able to 
withdraw funds would have been reasonable reassurance to him that this was a genuine 
investment. In essence I think the scam to which Mr R was a victim was so sophisticated that it wouldnt have been discoverable by any reasonable level of questions that Nationwide 
might have asked. 
I can understand why, following the contact from Nationwide in December 2016, that Mr R 
might feel there is a case to answer for Nationwide knowingly allowing him to make transfers 
as a result of the scam. The complaint response from Nationwide records that theyd 
received information that the account to which his final three payments had been sent might 
be being used fraudulently. The last of those three payments was sent on 6 December 2016. 
And whilst I cant share the specific details in relation to the other account, Im satisfied 
Nationwide became aware of this after that payment had already been sent. Nationwide 
called Mr R and shared their concerns on 22 December 2016. So, I dont think they 
knowingly allowed Mr R to send funds when they had valid concerns about the destination 
account. The money had all already been sent by that point. 
Mr R also says that Nationwide ought to have encouraged him to raise a scam claim at that 
point which might have resulted in recovery of some of his money. Nationwide shared their 
concerns as far as they were able to with Mr R. But an allegation of a scam or of fraud 
having taken place would have to have come from Mr R, not Nationwide. If Mr R felt hed 
been the victim of a scam, it was for him to make his allegation to Nationwide and the police. 
This isnt something Nationwide could have done on his behalf. I think they did all they 
needed to by promptly sharing their concerns. 
As I said at the start, Im really sorry to hear Mr R has been a victim in this way. And I hope 
the authorities are able to prosecute those responsible. But overall, I dont think Nationwide 
are responsible for anything that caused Mr Rs loss and in these circumstances it wouldnt 
be right for me to tell them to reimburse him.
Nationwide responded to the provisional decision and said that they had nothing further to 
add. Mr R made some further submissions which Ill address below. Now both sides have 
had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome of my provisional decision. I 
understand how disappointing this will be, so Ill explain why. 
When one of our investigators gives their opinion on a complaint, it isnt legally binding in the 
same way that an ombudsmans decision can be. Mr R says that Nationwide didnt respond 
to our investigator (who recommended he be reimbursed a considerable sum) and that the 
approach a court might take is that the party that doesnt defend itself would be ruled 
against. I can understand why Mr R makes this point, but once the complaint comes to me, 
Im required to make my own decision on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I dont agree that Nationwide not responding to our investigator, means that 
the complaint should automatically be upheld. 
Mr R believes that Nationwide should reimburse him as he says they failed in their duties to 
identify unusual transactions on his account. I agree that banks (and building societies) have 
obligations to monitor accounts for unusual activity and that they ought to take steps to 
contact customers in circumstances where such activity is identified. I also accept that high 
value transactions are one of the factors that ought to be considered in assessing what 
constitutes unusual activity. As part of his response to my provisional decision Mr R said In Nationwides failure, I was 
ultimately denied the very checks in place to protect me. How I might or not have reacted is 
immaterial, is not relevant and a moot point and as such cannot be used to deliver a 
decision. 
Ive considered this but I disagree. It doesnt follow that where a business has made an error 
or mistake, that they automatically become liable to their customer. Its essential for any 
failing to have caused the loss. As Ive said above, even if I were to accept that Nationwide 
ought to have identified unusual activity, either as a result of an individual transaction or as a 
result of the series of transactions (which for clarity Im not saying they should have done)  
this wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of my decision.
If the transaction(s) were highlighted as unusual, Id have expected Nationwide to have 
contacted Mr R and to have asked him questions about the nature and purpose of the 
payment he was making. Its most likely that Mr R would have responded to say that he was 
investing. Nationwide would have more knowledge of common scams than the average 
consumer, so Id have expected them to have warned Mr R about these. Common scams 
include email interceptions where payment details are changed, cloned investment firms, or 
as I understand the case to be here, entirely fraudulent firms.
For the reasons Ive explained above, the sophistication of the scam that Mr R fell victim to 
was such that I dont think there was anything Nationwide might have been able to say to 
him that would have prevented the loss. Its most likely that Mr R would have felt reassured 
by having physically visited Zs offices and being able to withdraw funds from his 
investment. I dont think he would have responded to a scam warning by concluding that he 
was being scammed. Or that there was a line of questioning that Nationwide could have 
pursued that would have resulted in Mr R reaching that conclusion. 
This is further supported by how Mr R did respond when Nationwide contacted him about 
their concerns in December 2016. He didnt accept that hed been the victim of a scam and it 
took the involvement of the police for him to ultimately accept this  sometime after 
Nationwide had raised that possibility. 
Again, Im sorry to hear of Mr Rs loss, but my role is to be independent and on the evidence 
of this case, I dont think Nationwide are responsible for a failing that caused the loss and so 
Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman