DRN-3423193
The complaint
Mr M complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited refused him life cover.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr M set up a life assurance policy with Legal and General in November 2020. It provided a 
sum assured of £150,000 over a 34-year term. A few weeks later, Mr M made a second 
policy application for a further £250,000 of life cover. Due to the amount of total cover 
(£400,000) requested and Mr Ms age, Legal and General required a doctors report.
After this, there were various changes to the cover Mr M was requesting  such as the sum 
assured and whether it would be replacing the existing cover in place. Once Legal and 
General received confirmation from Mr M of the cover he wanted, they sought the doctors 
report but there were significant delays in them receiving it. During this time, Mr Ms policies 
were cancelled but later reinstated at his request as he said he didnt ask for them to be 
cancelled.
Upon receiving the doctors report in November 2021, Legal and General decided they 
werent willing to offer Mr M any cover. This was because they became aware of Mr Ms 
medical history including post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety and depression. So, they 
cancelled his policies. 
Mr M complained but Legal and Generals position remained the same. They said had Mr M 
accurately disclosed his health when applying, they wouldnt have offered him any cover. So, 
they refunded Mr M the premiums hed paid.
Mr M referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman as he was unhappy Legal and 
General wouldnt offer him cover. He wanted them to either provide the cover he applied for, 
source it from another insurer for the same cost or pay the total sum assured (£400,000).
Our investigator didnt think Legal and General had acted unfairly by refusing cover. She 
explained that, upon Legal and General reviewing Mr Ms medical records, he hadnt 
answered some of the application questions accurately about his mental health. And that, 
having seen their underwriting criteria, she was satisfied Legal and General wouldnt have 
offered cover because of this. So, she thought it was fair for Legal and General to have 
cancelled the policies and refunded the premiums paid. 
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms dissatisfaction at being refused cover as he considers himself to be in 
good health. I want to reassure Mr M that Ive given careful consideration to everything hes 
said as I understand the importance of having life cover to him. But while I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr M, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think Legal and 
General has acted unfairly.
Just as Mr M can choose the type of cover he wishes to apply for, insurance firms  like 
Legal and General  can decide what level of risk they want to accept. In short, this means 
what cover they are prepared to offer  if any  and how much it will cost the policyholder(s). 
Insurers use data when assessing risk by calculating the likelihood of an event occurring. 
So, the more likely an event is to occur, the greater the risk to the insurer which means they 
will either charge a higher premium or not offer cover at all (if they deem such risk too high).
I appreciate Mr M says hes fit and well, that hes never drank or smoked and he hasnt any 
health conditions  such as kidney or liver problems. But life assurance covers a multitude of 
considerations. And, in Mr Ms case, Legal and General refused him life cover due to his 
mental health history which they say he failed to disclose in his applications.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
Im satisfied Legal and General asked Mr M clear and specific questions about his mental 
health that he ought to have answered differently. Had he done so, having seen Legal and 
Generals underwriting criteria, they wouldnt have offered Mr M cover. 
I understand Mr M doesnt think mental health questions should be in the application. And 
that he says hed been discharged from the mental health service a year prior to applying 
and so wasnt suffering from them at the time. While Ive noted Mr Ms points here, as Ive 
explained, the level of risk Legal and General is willing to accept is a commercial decision for 
them to make. And, although Mr M says he wasnt suffering from mental health at the time of 
applying, I think he ought to have still accurately disclosed his mental health history  which 
went beyond the last twelve months  in the applications. It therefore follows that I consider 
the misrepresentations to be qualifying.
CIDRA sets out the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation has 
occurred. And it allows an insurer to avoid the policy when, had the correct information been 
disclosed in the application, cover wouldnt have been offered. So, I think Legal and General 
has acted fairly  and in line with CIDRA - by avoiding his policies and refusing Mr M cover. I 
also think Legal and General acted fairly by refunding Mr M the premiums hed paid. 
I know Mr M doesnt think this is fair as we cant know what will happen tomorrow. But 
insurance is a matter of risk. And, unfortunately for Mr M, Legal and General arent willing to 
offer him life assurance due to his medical history. Im satisfied Legal and General have 
applied their underwriting criteria correctly to his applications upon finding out his mental 
health history. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M is hoping for but I dont think Legal and General has 
acted unfairly by refusing him cover. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman