DRN-4294290
The complaint
W complains about information requested by Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
Mr M, Ws director, has explained that Santander contacted him for information about the 
business. Mr M contacted Santander in February 2023 and advised he was in the process of 
winding the business up. Mr M has explained that Santander went on to ask him for 
information about his personal finances, property, earnings and another business he 
operates. 
Mr M has told us he was reluctant to answer the questions or provide detailed supporting 
information about his personal finances. But Santander threatened to withdraw banking 
services if Mr M didnt provide a copy of Ws most recent accounts, annual accounts for the 
new business, a copy of his personal tax return and a copy of the deeds to his property. 
Santander went on to apply an account restriction to Ws banking facility while it was waiting 
for the information to be supplied. 
Mr M complained on Ws behalf and said that Santander had failed to follow the requirement 
to take a risk based approach to completing regulatory and compliance checks, as set out by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Santander issued a final response and agreed that the service provided at times was poor, 
offering £30. But Santander said that, like all banks, its required to comply with various 
regulations and legislation relating to money laundering. Santander explained that the 
regulations required it to complete ongoing due diligence checks, including reviews of 
existing records during the relationship. And Santander said it could ask for information to 
show how a customers income and assets have been accumulated. Santander said the 
information it had requested from Mr M to compete Ws review was required. Santander 
added that whilst business accounts may be publicly available, it doesnt have the resources 
available to obtain them. So Santander requests the information directly from the account 
holder, or its representatives. Santander didnt agree it had acted unfairly by requesting 
supporting information to complete its review. 
Mr M ultimately supplied the required information and Santander completed its review.
Mr M referred Ws complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Santander had dealt with Ws complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further 
action. On Ws behalf, Mr M asked to appeal. Mr M said that Santander had failed to follow 
the risk based review approach mandated by the FCA. As Mr M asked to appeal Ws 
complaint, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the timeline for Ws complaint. I can see Mr M feels that Santander failed to follow a 
risk based approach to completing its review of Ws account and banking relationship. And I 
understand that Mr M feels that Santanders approach meant he was asked to provide 
information that was unnecessary. 
In Mr Ms response to the investigator, he said that Santander hadnt referred to Know Your 
Customer (or KYC) checks when contacting him about Ws account. Mr M explained 
Santander referred to anti money laundering regulations in relation to its review when 
responding to Ws complaint. Checks of this nature are often referred to as KYC checks by 
businesses. Santanders final response explains that its obligations under anti money 
laundering regulations require it to carry out various checks. And Santanders confirmed 
thats why it contacted Mr M for information about W. Im satisfied Santander has explained 
why information was requested. 
Mr Ms told us he doesnt feel that Santander followed a risk based approach which is at 
odds with the FCA guidance. But Ive looked at the relevant regulations and whilst I can see 
they do refer to checks being completed on a risk based approach, I havent seen anything 
that says a business cant ask for specific information or documents in support of a review. 
The regulations require Santander to carry out regular monitoring and due diligence, which 
includes revisiting existing banking arrangements and customers. So whilst I understand Mr 
M feels Santanders actions went above and beyond the approach its required to take, I 
havent been persuaded thats the case. 
Our investigator contacted Santander for guidance on why Mr M had been asked to provide 
specific information on Ws behalf. But Santander has explained it cant give a specific 
answer, beyond advising it was seeking to look into the financial background and 
arrangements of W. I appreciate that doesnt provide a lot of additional detail. But I wouldnt 
expect Santander to give a detailed response in terms of its approach to checks of this 
nature for security reasons. 
Ive considered whether the information Santander requested was unreasonable. Santander 
asked for copies of accounts for W as well as another business Mr M operates. And 
Santander asked for a copy of Mr Ms personal tax returns and property deeds. I understand 
Mr M feels the information he was asked to provide was unnecessary. But given the nature 
of the checks Santander was seeking to complete, I havent been persuaded it the 
information it requested was unreasonably inconvenient to provide and Im satisfied it was 
relevant to the financial standing of W and its director. 
Santander took the step of temporarily restricting Ws account. Mr M has asked for costs W 
incurred whilst the account was frozen. But Santander confirmed it would take that step at an 
early stage of its discussions with Mr M. And the restrictions were removed once the 
information requested was on file. I havent been persuaded that Santander acted unfairly or 
that there are grounds to award compensation. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as I havent been persuaded that Santanders actions were 
unreasonable and Im satisfied it dealt with Ws complaint fairly Im not telling it to do 
anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman