DRN-2230593
The complaint
Mr G is complaining about how much hes been charged by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) when he settled his hire purchase agreement early. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to acquire a car. 
Shortly afterwards he contacted VWFS to settle the finance agreement. But hes unhappy 
with the amount of interest he was charged. He says he asked VWFS when he took out the 
finance whether there would be any penalty charges for settling early and he was told there 
wasnt. He thinks the amount of interest hes been charged for the time he had the finance 
amounts to a penalty charge.
VWFS didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said it had calculated the interest correctly in line 
with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. And it said it wasnt required 
to highlight before the contract started how much interest hed have to pay to settle the 
finance early. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as he was satisfied VWFS had calculated the 
interest correctly. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and I shall now explain why.
Mr G says the supplying dealership told him VWFS wouldnt charge a cancellation or penalty 
charge for settling the finance early. He said he could have got a lower APR, but he took out 
this finance agreement because he was assured there wouldnt be a cancellation charge. 
The finance agreement was arranged by a supplying dealership. The dealership was acting 
as a credit broker and also acted on behalf of VWFS in arranging the finance agreement. 
VWFS can be held liable for the actions of its agent in arranging the finance agreement. 
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making the 
dealership the agent of VWFS during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr G 
entering into the loan agreement, starting from when he first approached the dealership. But 
essentially, this means VWFS is responsible for the acts or omissions of the dealership in 
relation to the sale of the loan to Mr G. In other words, VWFS has to stand behind the things 
the dealership said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process.
On balance, I think its likely Mr G did ask whether there were any penalty charges for 
settling the finance early and I think the dealership told him there werent. But I dont think 
this was incorrect as VWFS hasnt charged any additional cancellation charges over and 
above the interest it says Mr G was contractually required to pay. 
Legislation  the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004  sets out in detail 
how finance providers must calculate how much they can charge in interest where the 
consumer chooses to settle the finance agreement early. VWFS has shown it followed this 
guidance in calculating the interest its charged Mr G. So it has calculated the interest 
payable correctly and fairly.
Mr G says the amount of interest hes been charged amounts to a penalty. But, as I said, its 
been calculated in line with legislation. So I dont agree it was punitive. Mr G knew he was 
entering into a finance agreement. And Im satisfied he knew what the APR was, as hes 
said he could have got a lower APR. So he would have known hed have to pay some 
interest for the period he had the finance agreement. And, as I said, all VWFS has charged 
him is what he was contractually required to pay. 
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that Mr G was given a false statement of fact by 
VWFS or its agent before he entered into the contract that unfairly induced him into entering 
into the finance agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman