DRN-3775044
The complaint
Mr B has complained that he has not been able to add his partner Mrs B to his Black 
package bank account held with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)
What happened
Mr B held a Black package bank account with RBS, he has reviewed his account and 
attempted to add Mrs B to it. 
After some back and forward with information and some incorrect information being provided 
to Mr B it was found that Mr B was unable to add another person to his package bank 
account. RBS paid Mr B £100 compensation for the inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr B feels this is unfair, He already has travel plans covered by the travel insurance offered 
as a benefit with the account, so he is unable to cancel it without losing this cover.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Mr B disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr B nor RBS have disputed the circumstances of this complaint. 
RBS has explained that it does not allow Black package bank account holders to add 
additional people to their accounts. This type of decision is a commercial decision and one 
we consider to be fair. As the same applies to all Black package bank account holders I am 
unable to say Mr B has been treated any differently to someone in the same position, or that 
he has been treated unfairly.
I understand that it would be possible for Mr B to open a new account with Mrs B and 
upgrade this to a package bank account. It would now be for Mr B to consider his current 
circumstances to see if it would be beneficial for him to close the account he has and take a 
different option, or to continue with the account as it is.
I can see that the communication Mr B received when he attempted to make the change to 
his account was at times incorrect and confusing. RBS has taken this on board and changed 
some of its processes to be clearer should the same situation arise again. RBS has also 
compensated Mr B £100 for the inconvenience he has been caused.
The level of compensation that has been offered is fair and in line with what I would have 
suggested had Mr Bs complaint come to our service without any compensation being 
offered. 
I can understand Mr Bs disappointment. But for the reasons Ive explained above I dont 
think RBS has done anything wrong by not allowing Mr B to add his Partner to his Black 
package bank account.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman