DRN-2431045
The complaint
Mrs B complained that Barclays Bank PLC didnt help her to get back some money she
spent using her Barclays credit card, although she said that there had been a breach of 
contract.
What happened
Mrs B said shed ordered a carpet to be delivered and fitted into her daughters flat. She paid
for the delivery cost and an admin fee with her Barclays credit card. She hadnt yet paid for
fitting, she was told she could pay that at the time.
The first fitting date was cancelled by Mrs B. Delivery wasnt rearranged. Mrs B said she
then contacted the carpet shop again after six months, and because of the delay she wanted
her money back.
When Mrs B complained to Barclays, she said shed realised that the carpet wasnt suitable
for her, and had tried to cancel, but the shop wouldnt let her cancel.
Barclays wrote to Mrs B. It said it could only make a chargeback request or a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s.75 claim) if it had received documentary evidence 
to support Mrs Bs complaint. It invited her to send such evidence if she had it.
When Barclays discussed this complaint with our service, it said it thought a chargeback
request was out of time, but it had contacted the shop anyway. Barclays said the shop
told it that Mrs B had cancelled the delivery after her purchase, then months later requested
a refund and wanted to cancel. The shop said it didnt allow customers to cancel this sort of
purchase. It still held the goods for Mrs B, so she could still have the carpet.
Barclays said it thought Mrs B had just changed her mind. And it couldnt make either a
chargeback request or a s.75 claim in these circumstances.
Our investigator asked Mrs B if she would be happy to accept the carpet now, if it was
delivered to her. Mrs B said no, shed bought something else instead. She wanted all her
money back, and said shed been paying interest to Barclays since she bought this item.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that Barclays
could make a successful chargeback request in these circumstances.
Mrs B didnt agree with that. She said the shop had breached her contract, because she
was told either to collect the item or arrange delivery, and shed already paid for delivery. So
she thought Barclays shouldve been able to pursue a s.75 claim for her.
Barclays then contacted us to say that the shop had made a full refund to Mrs B. But Mrs B
said she still wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She said that
Barclays needed to compensate her for the inconvenience and trouble shed suffered for so
many months when there was clearly a breach of contract. So the case was passed to me
for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I dont think its clear that Barclays couldve made a successful chargeback claim or 
s.75 claim for Mrs B. When it wrote to her, it said it had no documentary evidence to 
show what had gone wrong, and it invited her to send that in if she wanted to.
For example, if Mrs B had changed her mind about this purchase and wanted to 
cancel but the shop wouldnt let her do that, then she would have to send Barclays a 
copy of the terms and conditions for this purchase, showing that she had the right to 
cancel. I understand that Mrs B didnt send that.
More recently, Mrs B said that there was a clear breach of contract, because she was 
asked to collect the item or arrange delivery herself. I dont know if the shop meant 
that she had to pay for delivery again. If it did, then Mrs B couldve asked Barclays to 
pursue a claim for the delivery charge shed paid.
But again, to pursue a claim based on this, shed have to send Barclays a copy of the 
terms and conditions for this purchase, showing that she could still insist that the 
shop covered the cost of delivery, even though shed cancelled this previously. 
Again, I understand that Mrs B didnt send further documentation to Barclays.
I dont know if Barclays wouldve been able to pursue a s.75 claim if Mrs B had sent 
in some further information. It wouldve had to review the documentation she sent, 
and also to consider if she could claim under s.75, as the carpet wasnt bought for 
her. But Barclays couldnt do any of this until it got that documentation.
So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong, when it wrote to Mrs B to ask her to 
send this further documentation in. Or when it took no further steps, in advance of 
her supplying further evidence. I dont think that Barclays has to pay Mrs B 
compensation because of that. 
I understand that the shop has now refunded Mrs B in full. Because Mrs B has now 
had her money back, Barclays would no longer be able to pursue either a 
chargeback or a s.75 claim for Mrs B.
I know Mrs B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays said it had nothing to add. Mrs B sent a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B said that she didnt think that things happened in the way Id set out in my provisional 
decision. She said the original delivery date had been rearranged three or four times, 
because of problems with her daughters accommodation, which I wont record here for 
reasons of privacy. 
Mrs B said that shed explained this to the carpet shop, and requested that the carpetbe delivered to a local storage unit. Mrs B said that the shop refused to deliver stating that 
the carpet was too large for their delivery men. Mrs B said that it was only after numerous 
attempts to arrange delivery to the storage unit that she asked for a refund. 
I said in my provisional decision that Mrs B cancelled the first fitting date. I also said delivery 
wasnt rearranged. I think that fits with what Mrs B has told us now. 
Mrs B said that shed told Barclays all of this at the start of her claim. She wanted us to listen 
to this call, because she said that Barclays wasnt honest in what it had told us. She also 
said shed told us all this at the start of her complaint. 
I can only look here at what Barclays has done. Ive asked Barclays about what Mrs B has 
said. Barclays has told us that it doesnt have call recordings any more, because all of this 
happened some time ago. So I cant listen to the calls Mrs B would like me to hear. I have 
though, looked carefully at all the notes Barclays made at the time.
Mrs B said that shed complained to us because a consumer helpline had told her that 
there was a breach of contract as the carpet shop was refusing to deliver the goods and she 
had paid a delivery cost. Mrs B said that Barclays had ignored that. 
Mrs B said Barclays would not accept the charge back claim without supporting documents. 
And all documents including the invoice with the terms and conditions were received by 
Barclays. 
I can see, in the notes that Barclays made at the time, that Mrs B has repeatedly said to 
Barclays that she should have 14 days to cancel her purchase. But the regulations that give 
people time to cancel a purchase apply to distance selling  so things that people buy online 
or over the phone. Mrs B told Barclays that she bought the item in person. So I cant see that 
Mrs B was entitled to a 14-day cancellation period. 
When I reached my provisional decision, I thought that Mrs B hadnt sent Barclays some of 
the information it would need to pursue a claim for her. I said if she wanted to cancel, she 
had to show Barclays that she was entitled to do this. That would mean sending Barclays the 
relevant terms and conditions. Or if she wanted to claim for the delivery charge, she had to 
show Barclays that the terms would allow her to ask the shop to cover the cost of delivery, 
even though shed cancelled this once. I didnt think Barclays had the documents to show 
those things.
Mrs B says that she sent Barclays all of the documentation it needed for this complaint. But 
the conversations that I can see Mrs B had with Barclays dont seem to confirm that shes 
already sent all the documents Barclays needed. And I can see that Barclays said in its letter 
to Mrs B of 13 March 2020 that it would like a copy of the invoice or contract, with the 
relevant terms, to confirm that she was able to cancel as shed suggested, as well as 
evidence that she had cancelled in line with those terms. Barclays internal notes from the 
time also seem to say that these documents hadnt been received. 
I also note that Mrs B sent us the front of the invoice. But she didnt send us the back, which 
is where the terms and conditions are set out. That matches with the documents that 
Barclays has shown us it received from Mrs B for this complaint. So I still think its more 
likely that Mrs B hadnt sent Barclays the documents it needed for this complaint.
Mrs B said that Barclays refunded the money to her card. But months later Barclays took this 
money back again. She said that when Barclays took this money back, it put her credit card 
balance over her credit limit. That had adversely affected her credit file, so she wanted 
Barclays to fix that. When Mrs B contacted our service about this complaint, she sent us a letter dated 24 
December 2019 from Barclays. That letter explains how a chargeback works. It says that 
Barclays will credit Mrs Bs account with the disputed amount, and explains that this credit 
would be taken back, if the chargeback isnt successful. We know that there was no 
successful chargeback in this case. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when it took 
this money back. It doesnt have to amend Mrs Bs credit file now.
Mrs B said that Barclays had omitted to tell us about the advice shed been given, that there 
was a breach of contract. And Mrs B said that we had acknowledged the breach. Mrs B says 
that she was offered the delivery charge, but she didnt want to settle for that. Its not clear to 
me here whether Mrs B is suggesting that Barclays offered to pay for the delivery charge, or 
whether shes saying that our service explored this as part of a possible settlement, and she 
didnt want to accept. 
I can only look at what Barclays did. I cant see that Barclays accepted that there had been a 
breach of contract, in the documents and notes it sent us. And I cant see that Barclays 
offered the cost of delivery. I dont think, from what Ive seen, that it had to do that.
Ive thought carefully about the further representations that Mrs B has made. But I havent 
changed my mind. I dont think that Barclays made a mistake when it wrote to Mrs B to say it 
couldnt proceed in this case, without more information to substantiate what shed said. 
And I also think its important to note that on 11 September 2020, the carpet shop refunded 
Mrs B in full. Because Mrs B has now had her money back, Barclays would no longer be 
able to pursue either a chargeback or a s.75 claim for Mrs B. And I understand that, 
separately, Barclays has now refunded all the interest Mrs B paid on this purchase.
I know Mrs B will be disappointed, but I dont think that her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman