DRN-4307559
The complaint
Ms M has complained about Covea Insurance plcs decision to reject a claim she made for 
damage under a home buildings insurance policy she jointly holds with Ms S and Mr C. 
As Ms M is the lead complainant, for ease I will refer to only Ms M in my decision. 
All reference to the underwriter Covea in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In December 2022 Ms M reported damp damage to two bedroom walls which she first 
noticed in September 2022. In November 2022 following heavy rainfall, the cause of the 
damage was discovered by overflowing guttering due to a blocked down pipe. This was 
causing water to penetrate the outside wall which led to the damp damage inside the 
property. 
In January 2023 Ms M provided the information Covea needed to consider the claim. Due to 
the estimated costs for repairs, Covea said it needed to instruct a Loss Adjuster (LA) to 
validate the claim. 
In February 2023 the LA reported to Covea that the damage had occurred gradually and 
hadnt been caused by an insured event. Although the policy provided Accidental Damage 
(AD) cover, damage caused by damp was excluded. And so the LA on behalf of Covea told 
Ms M that the claim was declined. Covea cited a term of the policy requiring the customer to 
notify it of any damage at the time. 
Ms M complained about Coveas decision. She said it had been very difficult to make a claim 
and complaint with Covea as this had involved multiple calls and emails involving Covea, its 
agents and the broker. Ms M was unhappy with the LAs visit. She said it only took around 
15 minutes, he seemed unprepared and had said a second visit would take place. Ms M said 
he declined to view other parts of the property to demonstrate it was well maintained. 
Ms M said shed appointed a builder of her choice to visit the property when she first noticed 
the damp in September 2022, but he hadnt been able to identify the cause. So she doesnt 
believe a contractor of Coveas would have. It wasnt until there was heavy rain that the 
cause could be identified. She doesnt believe she could have done anything differently to 
have mitigated the circumstances. 
Covea said its decision was correct. But it accepted that it should have been clearer about 
why it had declined the claim. For its poor service, Covea offered Ms M £75 compensation. 
Ms M didnt agree this sum was reasonable. She brought the complaint to us. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Ms M didnt agree. In 
summary she says she believes the claim should be considered under the AD section of the 
policy. 
So as Ms M disagrees, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms policy with Covea provides cover for specific insured perils which are sudden 
unforeseen events such as flood, fire or storm. It isnt unusual for an insurance policy to 
have exclusions for damage that doesnt happen suddenly, where the damage has 
happened over time. 
Ive looked at what Coveas policy says in relation to Ms Ms claim. In its claim decision letter 
dated 3 March 2023, the LA referred to the policy wording under General Exclusions which 
says:
Reasonable Care
If in relation to any claim You have failed to fulfil any of the following conditions. You 
will lose Your
right to indemnity or payment for that claim.
You must:
e) make good or remedy any defect or danger which becomes apparent and take 
such additional precautions as the circumstances may require
The LA said the claim had been declined as the damage had been caused by an ongoing 
issue. 
In Coveas final response to Ms M, It set out its claim conditions as explained under the 
policy;
Claim Conditions
Your duties
In the event of a claim or possible claim under this Policy You must:
1. notify us as soon as possible giving full details of what has happened.
Ms M says that she took action as soon as possible by calling her builder to visit the property 
- but he wasnt able to identify the cause. And so she doesnt agree that had she contacted 
Covea sooner, the outcome would have been different. 
I have no way of knowing whether another contractor might have identified the cause of 
damage sooner. I can only consider whether Covea acted reasonably in applying the terms 
of the policy when considering the claim - and I think it did. Because Ms Ms builder wasnt 
able to identify the cause of damage sooner doesnt mean Covea should meet the claim. As 
Ms M didnt report the incident to Covea when she was aware of the problem on 11 
September 2022. 
Covea defines the term accidental damage under the policy as;
Damage caused suddenly, unexpectedly and accidently
Under What is not covered Covea says:
for damage caused by infestation, insects, vermin, corrosion, damp, wet or dry rot, 
mould or frost
So Im satisfied that the claim isnt covered under the accidental damage section of the 
policy. And as there isnt evidence of an insurable event which is covered under the policy, I 
think Coveas decision to decline the claim was reached in a reasonable way and in line with 
the policy. Ms M is unhappy with the service she received from Covea and the LA. She wanted to see a 
copy of the LAs report as she didnt agree with Coveas decision to decline the claim. 
I dont have sufficient evidence to show that the LA acted unprofessionally. From the 
information the LA provided to Covea, I think he reached his decision fairly and provided 
photos to support his opinion. And Covea doesnt have to provide a copy of the report to Ms 
M, but it did provide key extracts from it showing Ms M the reason why it declined the claim. 
I agree that the letter the LA sent confirming the decision to decline the claim could have 
been clearer. Because it wasnt, this led to Ms M raising further queries with Covea to 
establish why it had declined the claim.
For the inconvenience this caused Ms M, Covea offered to pay Ms M £75 compensation. I 
appreciate Ms M doesnt think this is a reasonable sum. She says it cost her time and money 
to raise her claim and complaint with Covea. 
Its reasonable to expect some degree of inconvenience and own time when raising a claim 
with an insurer. Unfortunately I think this is inevitable. And it is something that fortunately 
doesnt happen every day. I understand Ms Ms disappointment that the crux of her 
complaint - that the claim wasnt met - hasnt been upheld. But as I think Covea reached a 
fair decision about the claim, I dont think Covea needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I think Covea Insurance plc has 
done enough to resolve the complaint. I think its offer of compensation of £75 is fair. If it 
hasnt already paid this, it should pay if Ms M, Mr C and Mrs S accept my decision. 
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Ms M, Mr C and Mrs S accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Ms M and 
Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman