DRN-3932817
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with Skrill Limiteds decision to close her account and retain her funds.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms D opened an account with Skrill and made deposits into it. She said she 
mainly used the account to receive money from friends and gamble. In October 2019, Skrill 
conducted a review of Ms Ds account. Following the review, Skrill decided to close the 
account with immediate effect. At the time Ms Ds balance was around € $5,500.
Skrill asked Ms D to provide an ID document and a selfie photograph as part of its 
verification process, so that it could return Ms Ds balance to her. The documents Ms D 
provided failed that verification check. So Skrill didnt release Ms Ds balance.
Ms D was unhappy about the actions taken by Skrill, so she referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by one of our investigators who said Skrill hadnt done anything 
wrong. Ms D disagreed. She says shes submitted various documents including a tenancy 
agreement and identification documents and doesnt understand why Skrill wont release the 
money in the account back to her. She wants to be told whats wrong with the documents 
shes submitted to Skrill. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Skrills decision to close Ms Ds account. As the investigator has already 
explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Each financial 
institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open or close 
accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial decision that a financial 
institution is entitled to take. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont 
usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has 
had their account closed.
I know Ms D is upset that Skrill closed her account. But having looked at all the information 
available to me, including Skrills actions and the information its provided Im satisfied that 
Skrill had sufficient grounds to close Ms Ds account and did so in line with the terms and 
conditions. So, I cant say Skrill has treated Ms D unfairly when it decided it no longer 
wanted her as a customer.
The crux of Ms Ds complaint is that she wants the funds in her account, which is around 
€5,500 returned to her. It seems Skrill is willing to release the money to Ms D. But in order to 
do so Ms D has to complete Skrills verification process. I can see that Skrill has clearly 
explained this to Ms D on more than one occasion. And told her that this process is its 
standard procedure. So, Im satisfied that Ms D understands what she needs to do in order 
to satisfy Skrills request. Im also satisfied that Skrill has these processes in place in order to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations when providing accounts to customers. So, I 
cant say Skrill have done anything wrong by asking Ms D to provide the documents needed 
to complete this process and withholding the funds. 
I appreciate that Ms D has supplied Skrill with a number of documents on at least two 
separate occasions. And that not having access to the funds has made things difficult for her 
financially. But I can also see that Skrill has told Ms D what she needs to provide in order for 
the funds to be released to her. Skrill has also confirmed that the documents provided by 
Ms D to date arent acceptable. Having looked at the documents I dont think thats 
unreasonable. So, its up to Ms D to now provide the information necessary in order to be 
sent the funds. And Im not going to ask Skrill to do anything more.
I know Ms D wants to know exactly what the problem was with the documents she provided 
Skrill. But I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may 
treat evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains information about other customers, security information or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Skrill has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able 
to share a lot of detail with Ms D, but Id like to reassure her that I have considered 
everything.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Ms D feels about whats happened. I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Ms D will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Skrill have acted unreasonably and 
treated Ms D unfairly in taking the actions it did
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman