DRN-3807527
The complaint
Mr S has complained that he was mis-sold a 123 Account in March 2012 by Santander UK 
Plc (Santander). He says that he was told that he needed to upgrade to this account in 
order to get an overdraft facility. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already and they did not think that the 
account was mis-sold. Mr S did not agree with this and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed. This complaint will only be looking at the sale of the 123 Account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to decide what to do about Mr Ss complaint.
After considering everything available to me, I dont think Santander mis-sold the 123 
Account. Ill explain why. Firstly, I have considered whether Mr S was given a fair choice in 
taking out the account. 
Mr S had held a free account with Santander prior to the upgrade and therefore I think that 
he wouldve been aware that Santander did offer free accounts and that they were an option 
for him.
I note that Mr S has said that he thought that he had to have the account to get an overdraft. 
But looking at his bank statements, I cant see that he used an overdraft facility around the 
time of the upgrade. Due to this, I find it unlikely that this was the reason why he upgraded 
his account. I think it more likely that Mr S agreed to the 123 Account, because of the 
cashback benefit that it came with.
When Santander sold the 123 account to Mr S, the monthly fee was £2 per month, although 
it has risen since. If customers met certain conditions (such as paying a minimum amount 
into the account and paying out at least two direct debits from the account each month), then 
in return for the fee, Santander would pay them more interest on their account balance than 
it usually offered to customers with fee-free accounts. It would also give them cashback on 
some types of domestic bill payments. Depending on how customers used the 123 account, 
they could receive more in interest and cashback than they paid in fees each month.
I can see that when the account was first taken out, Mr S was actually receiving monthly 
cashback rewards that exceeded or were equivalent to what he was paying for the monthly 
fee. Though I can see that this changed over time, due to the way Mr S ran his account. I 
think it was more likely than not that Mr S took out the account in order to benefit from the 
cashback, rather because he thought he had to have it  to get an overdraft facility  after all 
the account would potentially have saved him money when he agreed to it. I note with 
hindsight Mr S did not benefit overall from having this account. But that does not mean that it 
was wrong for Santander to sell it to him in the first instance.
I am satisfied that Santander did not make a personal recommendation to Mr S. So, 
Santander did not have to make sure that the account was right for him. It did though have to 
give Mr S the information to allow him to make his own choice as to whether the account 
was right for him. I think that it is more likely than not that the main benefits wouldve been 
highlighted to him during his application. After all, Santander wouldve wanted the account to 
seem attractive. I also cant see anything specific that Mr S was not told about that I think 
wouldve altered his decision to take out the account.
Overall, I dont think Santander mis-sold the 123 account to Mr S. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Santander 
UK Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman