DRN-4507236
The complaint
Mr R complains about West Bay Insurance Plcs handling of a claim following a road traffic 
accident.
What happened
Mr R complains about how West Bay dealt with his car insurance claim. He says the third 
party driver admitted fault for the accident at the time and confirmed this in a text message. 
He raised his claim through the insurance broker as a non-fault accident but was informed 
by the third party driver that West Bay were dealing with this as a fault claim against Mr R. 
He says they were dealing with the claim as being 50% responsible for the accident despite 
the third party driver being responsible because West Bay contacted the third party driver 
and were wrongly told in this call that Mr R had accepted liability. 
He complains about the poor communication hes had from them including lack of contact 
and correspondence hes received about the claim and their failure to respond to the 
complaint or keep him updated about the liability position.
He was unhappy with the valuation placed on his car after it was a total loss. He was offered 
£4241 for his car which he said was significantly less than market value. As his car was a 
total loss, he was not entitled to a replacement car and was forced to spend his own money 
to hire a car until he bought a replacement. He also points out, the offer made to him was 
also after the claim excess had been deducted, which wouldnt have happened if the claim 
was being dealt with as a non-fault claim.
West Bay wrote to Mr R in April 2023 and increased their settlement offer to £5221 which 
Mr R accepted. They responded with their final response letter in May 2023 saying they had 
dealt with liability correctly based on the information they had available. They did accept their 
communication had been poor and offered Mr R £300 compensation and 8% interest 
because of the delays in offering a new total loss settlement. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and said West Bay had correctly handled liability 
in the claim based on the information theyd been given and once informed of the correct 
position within five days, they updated their liability position and so there was no detrimental 
impact from this. She wasnt persuaded that West Bay made a call to the third party driver 
and is more likely that the broker did so, and West Bay couldnt be held responsible for the 
information theyd been given.
She did say West Bay didnt offer a fair amount for their first settlement offer and could have 
communicated with him better. She concluded they should increase their offer to £400 which 
was a fair amount to compensate him for the issues hes encountered. 
Mr R didnt agree with this outcome, so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint and for broadly similar reasons as the 
investigator.
Id like to be clear, my role here is to consider evidence from both parties and come to an 
impartial conclusion about what I think to be correct. As an informal complaints resolution 
service, my role is not to punish or sanction a business for any wrong doings that may be 
established, but my aim is to put the consumer back in a position they would have been had 
it not been for the business mistake.
Although I may not have individually mentioned each point, I have considered all of Mr Rs 
complaint points along with the evidence provided throughout the life of the complaint and 
commented in turn on the elements that I consider to be key to the complaint.
The first is the concern around West Bay contacting the third party driver and telling him, 
Mr R had accepted liability. The message from the third party driver informing Mr R of West 
Bay contacting him was sent on 7 October but West Bay say they didnt set up the complaint 
until 8th October. I note Mr Rs comments about when he believes the claim was set up and I 
can see he feels quite strongly about this. I have to consider both points, but I havent seen 
any definitive evidence to establish that West Bay made this call or engaged in a 
conversation about liability with the third party driver. Ive seen evidence of the text message 
the third party driver sent to him, and whilst it refers to Mr Rs insurer, it doesnt mention the 
name of the business or person he spoke to. It is quite possible that the reference to the 
insurer could have been the broker. It is clear, the complaint came to West Bay from Mr Rs 
broker after he initially reported the incident. On balance it is more likely than not, the claim 
details including liability status would have come from the broker. However, as I say there is 
no conclusive evidence to confirm West Bay did engage with the third party driver. 
Mr R believes West Bay were going to settle the claim on a fault liability basis based on the 
conversation above while they believe theyve not done anything wrong. I note his comments 
in relation to the total loss payment he received where a deduction for the excess of £525 
had been made. Mr R says this shows he was considered liable and West Bay were dealing 
with it in this way, but this isnt necessarily correct. Where liability has not yet been 
established, or in this case confirmed/accepted by the third party, it is common practice for 
insurers to retain the excess payment if liability may be subject to change  this doesnt 
mean they considered Mr R to be liable for the accident. 
I consider West Bays actions following the initial information to be of more importance than 
how they recorded the initial notification of loss. On 13 October 2022, Mr R spoke to West 
Bay and clarified the situation, informing them he hadnt accepted liability. They then wrote 
to the third party insurer on 15 October 2022 to confirm the third party driver had accepted 
liability. So, for a period of around five days, the liability position was unclear, nonetheless 
this simply means their investigations were still ongoing and doesnt establish West Bay had 
done something wrong.
From what I have seen, there is nothing to suggest any detriment was caused in the 
handling of Mr Rs claim because of the five days of liability being noted as fault. There 
doesnt appear to be any conversations or communications between West Bay and the third 
party insurers because of the fault status and on 11 November 2022, there is clear evidence 
that West Bay supported Mr Rs version of events because they wrote to the third party 
insurer holding the third party driver at fault. It is important to point out, that any impact to 
Mr R from the initial incorrect liability status would easily have been mitigated if West Bay 
had communicated their change in liability position to him or updated him when they wrote to 
the third party insurer about this.Mr R also raised his concerns around the £4241 valuation placed in the initial offer West Bay 
made to him. The investigator has explained our services approach to car valuations, so I 
wont repeat these again here. Looking at the trade guide valuations obtained, the lowest of 
these was £4640, and include £4826, with the highest being £5292. West Bays offer was 
lower than the lowest trade guide valuation and not within the range of trade guides 
valuations obtained, so I wouldnt consider their offer of £4241 to be fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I fully accept the points Mr R makes in relation to the lack of communications from West Bay. 
These issues havent been disputed and they have already accepted their communications 
with Mr R were not handled well. In recognition of this they, offered £300 in compensation. 
My only consideration here would be whether I think that this is the right amount of 
compensation to award. 
Since any potential detriment to the claim was limited to the period in which liability was 
incorrectly noted, and West Bay made the changes to liability when they said they would, I 
cant see that any actual detriment has been caused to the claim because of this. As I 
mentioned above, what I do acknowledge is that West Bays communications with Mr R 
should have been better when dealing with his claim, and this would have prevented any 
further distress or inconvenience to him. In addition to this, I think their settlement offer to 
Mr R was unfair and it wasnt until April 2023 that a new offer was made. On this basis, I 
think the compensation offer should be increased to £400. 
West Bay made a new offer at £5221 plus interest at 8% on the full amount from the time it 
should have been paid on 24 October 2022, has been accepted. As I understand it, West 
Bay has already issued payments for these, and if not this should be paid.
I appreciate Mr R may still has concerns around the way West Bay operate, their lack of 
communications and not responding to him within the time frames set out by the regulators, 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I do not intend to trivialise the strength of his feelings in 
saying this, but this service has strict guidelines around what we can and cant look at and 
looking at how a service complaint has been handled is not within the remit of this service. I 
would suggest Mr R refers his ongoing concerns about this and the limitations of our service 
to the FCA.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against West 
Bay Insurance Plc. Where any payment is outstanding, they should pay Mr R as above, and 
a total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused, with allowance made for any 
compensation payment already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman