DRN-2562290
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded a fair proportion of the 
premium, hed paid for his travel insurance policy.
All reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. And although Mr A is being represented in 
this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout as he is the policyholder.
What happened
Mr A bought a single trip, comprehensive, travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great
Lakes (the policy). The policy was taken out to cover a trip abroad which had been booked 
for one week commencing 23 May 2020. Mr A paid a total of £273.30 for the policy which 
included insurance premium tax (charged at 20%) and a discount of £30.
Mr As flight was cancelled on 6 April 2020 due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and 
Mr A contacted Great Lakes later that month to cancel the policy.
Great Lakes ultimately offered Mr A a pro rata voucher refund - valid for 36 months - that
he could use against a new travel insurance policy in the sum of £92.22. 
Mr A didnt think that was fair so complained to our Service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the details of the
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The
investigator also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the
insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not
returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to
the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make
it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy
started on 25 February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19.
And having considered everything she partially upheld. She recommended Great Lakes pay
a pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the policy from 6 April 2020 (by way of voucher).
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator. He wanted a cash refund of the premium hed paid 
for the policy. Great Lakes didnt object to our investigators view. And, in light of her 
recommendation, it calculated that it would pay a voucher to Mr A in the sum of £143.77 
(representing 55 unused days).
This complaint has now been passed to me to decide to look at everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partially uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes to issue a voucher 
to Mr A but, in the sum of £156.58, to represent a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid 
for the policy rather than the sum of £143.77 Great Lakes calculated in response to our 
investigators view. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
Are Mr and Mrs M entitled to a refund of the premium paid for the policy?
The terms and conditions of the policy set out Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation rights under the
contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer a full refund to Mr A.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more than
14 days after payment of the premium, no premium will be refunded except in exceptional
circumstances. But I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to exercise the discretion
it has, under the terms of the policy, in the circumstances of this case to refund the premium
Mr A paid for the policy. Im not persuaded that the Covid-19 global pandemic
amounts to exceptional circumstances akin to two examples in the policy term referred to
above. And I dont think the impact of the global pandemic, which affected many of Great
Lakes policyholders, is one which this term is intended to cover.
But Im conscious that Mr As need for the policy changed due to circumstances outside of 
his control; because the trip didnt go ahead as a result of Covid-19. So, Ive considered 
whether it would still be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules 
and the policy terms in the circumstances of this case  particularly given the exceptional, 
extraordinary and unexpected circumstances surrounding the pandemic.
I know Mr A says that Great Lakes shouldve offered a full monetary refund of the
policy premium. But Covid-19  and its global impact - couldnt have been anticipated and
foreseen. And whilst it was outside of the control of Mr A, it was also outside of
Great Lakes control.
Further, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr As contract with Great Lakes to
be performed  or for him to have benefitted from the policy. Thats because Mr A
wasnt just insured for the dates of travel. Cover started on 25 February 2020. And, subject 
to the remaining terms of the policy, Im satisfied that the price Great Lakes charged Mr A for 
the policy also covered him from the start of the policy should he have needed
to cancel his trip for any number of the insured events under the policy.
So, Great Lakes had assumed the risk of Mr A making such a claim from the datethe policy started until his connecting flight was cancelled on 6 April 2020. And, as also 
explained by our investigator, its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer 
had started to bear the risk concerned  for however short amount of time  the premium 
paid is not returnable. So, Im not persuaded that its unfair for Great Lakes to retain any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered up until the point that flight was cancelled.
But once the flight was cancelled due to the pandemic, Great Lakes was no longer
carrying the risk of the trip being cancelled for any of the other insured reasons set out in
the policy, before the start of trip. And Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to
Mr As trip being cancelled; the cost of the trip was refunded by a third party.
Also, just as importantly, as the trip was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was no
longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr A was abroad.
So, in light of this, and based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding
the Covid-19 pandemic, Im persuaded its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide
Mr A with a pro-rata refund of the premium he paid for the policy from 6 April 2020.
The offer of a voucher
When considering whether Great Lakes shouldve offered a pro-rata monetary refund of the
premium or by way of voucher, Ive considered what would be fair and reasonable to both
parties.
Mr A paid a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim 
occurring under the policy during the period of cover. Offering a refund by way of a voucher 
means the risk Great Lakes had agreed to accept is simply moved to a future date. And I 
think its reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher as an alternative to a monetary 
refund in such circumstances - so long as the terms of the voucher offered are fair and 
reasonable.
I dont think the terms of the voucher in this case are overly restrictive. The voucher is valid
for 36 months and can also be used to buy a single trip or annual, multi-trip, travel insurance
policy. 
I know Mr As representative has said that Mr A is very anxious because of the Covid-19 
pandemic and hes been shielding due to his health issues. Ive also taken on board the 
comments set out in his representatives email to our Service dated January 2021 and why 
she feels like he wont travel abroad again. But this isnt what Mr A has said. His 
representative has relayed that Mr A feels its most unlikely hell travel outside of the UK 
again but thats not entirely consistent with him not being able  or wanting  to travel abroad 
again over the next couple of years. So, its possible the voucher will be of some use to him. 
Further, even if he doesnt travel abroad again, Great Lakes has confirmed that the voucher 
is also fully transferrable. So, if it isnt used by Mr A within the 36 months timeframe for 
which its valid, it can be used by someone else  if Mr A chose to gift the voucher to a friend 
or family member, for example.
So, in the circumstances of this particular case, Im not persuaded Great Lakes should pay a
pro-rata monetary refund to Mr A instead of a voucher.
The vouchers value
When calculating the policy premium Great Lakes doesnt distinguish between pre-travel
cancellation and post-departure cover. Rather, the premium charged is split equally across
the whole period of cover. As our investigator explained, an insurer is entitled to decide theway in which it calculates policy premiums, considering factors such as its previous claims
experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims arising and its own commercial
interests. Thats if it treats each customer fairly when doing so.
Given Great Lakes explanation, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the
prevalence of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. Im also
persuaded that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr A unfairly, or any differently, to other 
customers in similar circumstances by calculating the premium in this way.
The value of the voucher offered to Mr A has been calculated considering their unused 
period of standard travel insurance cover. The policy covered Mr A for 96 days from the date 
the policy started to the date he was due to fly back to the UK. And the premium he paid for 
the policy was representative of the time cover was in place for. Great Lakes wasnt covering 
any further risk under the policy from the date Mr As holiday was cancelled on 6 April 2020.
So, Im satisfied Great Lakes should recalculate the value of Mr As voucher from
that date to 30 May 2020 (55 days in total).
Mr A was given a discount at the point of sale. Ive seen the refund calculation formula used 
by Great Lakes in response to our investigators view, but I dont agree this leads to a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should calculate the
refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days)
multiplied by days not on risk.
  
Putting things right
Within 28 days from our Service confirming to Great Lakes that Mr A accepts my final 
decision, I direct Great Lakes calculate the value of Mr As voucher based on a pro-rata 
refund of the premium paid for the policy from 6 April 2020.
As Ive outlined above Great Lakes should calculate the refund by dividing the actual price
paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
Alternatively, if Great Lakes has already issued Mr A a voucher to the value of £92.22 it 
initially offered after he first complained to Great Lakes, I direct it to issue Mr A with a further 
voucher for the difference between the value of that voucher and the recalculated amount 
(which I understand will be approximately £156.58).
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr As complaint. And I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman