DRN-3022143
The complaint
Mr W has complained, on behalf of the executors of the estate of Ms H, that Saga Services 
Limited (Saga) failed to include cover for subsidence, ground heave and landslip, when 
renewing the insurance policy for the late Ms Hs property.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 July 2021, explaining why I was not 
intending to uphold this complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
The late Ms H had insured the property with Saga, from 25 September 2007 for a 
number of insured perils, including heave and landslip. When she moved from the 
property to a rest home, and then later sadly passed away, Saga was notified of the 
changes in occupation of the property, and sent letters, including renewal reminders, 
to various representatives of the estate of Ms H.
A major storm set off a landslip at the property on or around 23 July 2019, which 
caused significant damage to the property. The executors made a claim for the 
damage caused to the property by the landslip, but the claim was declined on the 
basis that landslip wasnt covered.
Mr W complained about this to Saga, on behalf of the executors. He said that the 
policy should have included cover for buildings subsidence, ground heave and 
landslip for the following reasons (among others):
the executors had not asked Saga to provide a policy that excluded such 
cover;
the policy premium, with, and without that cover, was the same amount, 
which led the executors to believe it continued to be insured for subsidence, 
ground heave and landslip;
all of the correspondence and documentation Saga sent to the executors, 
relating to the renewal of the policy, included reference to a £1,000 excess 
payable for Buildings subsidence, ground heave and landslip; and
Mr W also said the policy had to be renewed by the solicitors for the Estate, over the 
telephone, because there wasnt sufficient time to get any alternative quotations for 
cover.
Saga issued their final response letter declining the complaint (other than in relation 
to the customer service Mr W had received) on 16 September 2019. They said: 
renewal documents had been sent a number of times in September 2018 to 
representatives of the Estate; details of the endorsement relating to the property 
being unoccupied had been drawn to the executors attention; and the executors 
could have phoned Saga if they had any questions about the cover provided. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Sagas response so brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued a view upholding the 
complaint. She said that Saga hadnt been clear about the significant change of 
excluding subsidence, heave and landslip from the cover provided by the policy. She 
also didnt think Saga could rely on the renewal documents to exclude cover for 
heave and landslip. Our investigator concluded that any claim going forwards, for 
landslip, should be considered under the original terms of the insurance policy.
Saga didnt agree with our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans 
decision on the complaint. They said that the wording of the vacant property 
endorsement was clear as it stated what was covered. They also referred to a 
number of ombudsman decisions published by this service, where wed previously 
said: the same endorsement was clear; including a policy excess in a schedule 
alone, didnt mean that the particular cover is provided under the policy; and the 
insurer wasnt responsible for the policyholders lack of understanding about the 
effect of the endorsement. 
As the parties havent been able to agree on a resolution to this complaint, its been 
passed to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that it was Sagas responsibility to ensure the 
information theyd provided was clear fair and not misleading, so the executors could 
make an informed decision about the cover they were purchasing. And I agree that 
some of the information Saga communicated was confusing. However, Im currently 
of the view that Saga did draw attention to the key terms the executors needed to be 
aware of, when deciding whether or not to purchase the policy, so I dont agree the 
policy was mis-sold.
From 7 September to 31 July 2019, a number of policy renewal reminders, and 
confirmation letters were issued to various representatives of the estate of Ms H, 
including to one of the executors, Mr M, to the representative for the executors, 
Mr W, and to R, the solicitors for the Estate.
The first page of all but one of the letters, included a clear warning that there had 
been a significant change to the level of cover on the policy. In addition, the 
statement: Please note that due to the property being unoccupied, this policy is now 
subject to standard policy wording exclusions, which can be found in your Policy 
Book, was also included on the first page. The specific exclusion relevant to this 
complaint was set out on page 16 of the policy terms and conditions, (referred to as 
the Policy Book above) under the heading, We do not cover the following
If your home was unfurnished or unoccupied at the time of loss or 
damage. Caused by subsidence ground heave settlement or landslip.
In the letters addressed to R, Saga also referred to Endorsement number 3, which 
specifically listed what would be covered while the building was vacant: 003 Vacant property
You have told us that the buildings are vacant. We will only cover damage 
caused by fire or smoke not arising from a gradually operating cause, 
explosion, lightning or earthquake, impact by aircraft or other aerial devices or 
anything dropped from them and liability to the public only.
This exclusion was also read out by the sales adviser during a phone call with R, 
when R called to renew the insurance policy on behalf of the Estate. Im therefore 
currently of the view that Saga made it clear to the executors that the policy was now 
subject to exclusions as a result of the property being unoccupied and drew attention 
to a significant change to the level of cover on the policy. I also think it was clear 
that subsidence, heave and landslip wasnt covered in these circumstances.
Mr W has argued that the inclusion of an excess of £1,000 for buildings subsidence, 
heave and landslip in the policy schedule, and the fact the premium was priced the 
same, with, or without that cover, led the executors to believe the property was 
covered for damage caused by landslip. I also note that when the policy was 
renewed, the policy terms and conditions dont appear to have been included with the 
policy schedule, so it appears that all of the terms werent provided together. 
However, what I need to decide is whether the actions of the executors were 
reasonable in view of all of the information available. In other words, was it 
reasonable for them to conclude the property was covered for landslip, despite the 
clear warnings at the start of the correspondence indicating that significant changes 
had been made to the cover as a result of the property being vacant?
Taking all of the above into account, Im currently of the view that the warnings given 
by Saga, and the information provided, were sufficient to signpost the change in 
cover to the executors. It was then up to the executors to decide whether they wished 
to take any action to understand what the significant change in cover was. 
I also note that the estate of Ms H was represented by solicitors, and it was the 
solicitors who confirmed the renewal of the cover on the terms and conditions 
provided. On the call with Saga, the solicitors asked a question about what would 
happen should an insured risk eventuate before payment for the policy had been 
received by Saga. However, no questions were asked about the vacant property 
endorsement that was read in detail (from 3 minutes into the sales call). I understand 
that the solicitors didnt receive a new copy of the schedule until July 2019, after the 
claim for damage had been declined. But, the existing policy terms and conditions 
also contained that provision, and a copy of the terms and conditions could have 
been requested by the solicitors at any point from the time the policy was renewed. 
I do agree that including an excess for subsidence heave and landslip in the policy 
schedule, when it wasnt covered by the policy was confusing. And going forwards it 
would be much clearer if Saga only included excesses for cover that are provided by 
the policy. But looking at the documentation as a whole, Im currently satisfied that 
limitations of cover taking effect on the property becoming vacant were clearly 
signposted to the executors. It was then up to the executors to decide whether to 
read the policy terms and conditions or ask some additional questions about the 
limitations in cover. 
I would add that even if Saga had provided clearer information prior to the renewal 
being confirmed, Im not persuaded that the executors would have made a different decision about purchasing the insurance. I say this because Mr W told our 
investigator that there wasnt sufficient time to obtain other quotations.
I concluded that taking account of all the available evidence, Saga had taken sufficient steps 
to highlight the change in cover that would be triggered by the property becoming vacant. I 
said that I was therefore not intending to uphold the complaint.
I asked the parties to provide me with any final arguments or information by 25 August 2021, 
after which time I said I would proceed to issue my decision.
Saga didnt provide any additional information for me to consider, however the 
representative of Ms Hs Estate, Mr W did. In summary he said (and I paraphrase):
the renewal document sent on 7 September 2018, the reminder letter sent on 
21 September 2018 and the call between Saga and the solicitors, which took place 
on 25/26 September didnt make it sufficiently clear that cover for landslip would not 
be provided while the property was vacant;
he was at a loss as to why the death of the policy holder would have changed the risk 
profile of the property; and
he objected to my suggestion that no other decision would had been made had the 
information from Saga been clearer. He said that had the policy documents included 
the exclusion, the executors would have sought an alternative policy as this isnt 
something that would be accepted as a standard exclusion on any property.
Mr W also repeated a number of the points hed made previously, which Ive already taken 
into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to change my decision on this complaint. While 
Mr W continues to refer to a change in the policy terms, in fact, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, from the policys inception, the terms and conditions included the 
exclusion that upon the property becoming vacant, cover for subsidence, ground heave, 
settlement or landslip would not be provided. 
Mr W has also said that had the policy documents included the exclusion, the executors 
would have sought an alternative policy. However, I remain of the view that the 
communications from Saga, including the call with the Estates solicitors in which the adviser 
specifically flagged the change in cover due to the property being unoccupied, were 
sufficient to make the executors aware of the change in cover. And as I said in my 
provisional decision, it was therefore up to the executors and their advisers to decide 
whether they wished to take any further steps to understand the significant change in cover 
that would arise on the property becoming vacant. 
So, for the reasons set out in this decision, and my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman