DRN-3446315
The complaint
Mr C complains that his deferment application was declined. Mr C also complains about the 
information and service Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Thesis Servicing 
(Thesis) gave him when discussing how to defer his student loan payments. 
What happened
Mr C has various accounts that make up his student loan. The student loan was issued by 
SLC and are managed by Thesis. Mr C has the option of applying to defer payments if his 
income is below the level set by SLC. 
In February 2021 Mr C submitted a deferment application to SLC. As part of the application, 
Mr C was asked to supply his most recent payslips covering a period of three months. In 
April 2021 SLC wrote to Mr C to say his deferment application wasnt complete. Mr C went 
on to send SLC the most recent payslips covering February, March and April 2021. 
SLC went on to decline Mr Cs deferment as it said his average income was higher than the 
threshold allowed. 
Mr C discussed his student loan and arrears that accrued after his deferment application 
was declined with Thesis. Mr C has told us he found Thesis to be rude and unprofessional.
Mr C complained but Thesis didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Thesis said SLC was 
responsible for setting the deferment criteria and assessing applications. Thesis gave Mr C 
an explanation as to why his deferment application was declined. Thesis didnt uphold Mr 
Cs complaint. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Thesis had dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr C 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr C found the way his deferment application was handled in 2021 
frustrating. But I can only consider Thesis actions in this case. And, as noted above and by 
the investigator, Thesis acts to administer Mr Cs student loan on SLCs behalf. SLC gives 
details of the deferment criteria and income limits. SLC is also responsible for assessing 
deferment applications and confirming whether theyve been approved or declined. My 
decision will relate to Thesis actions. 
I understand Mr Cs application was initially marked as incomplete by SLC because he didnt 
send in the most recent payslips. Looking at the payslips Mr C provided, I can see the most 
recently issued one wasnt included. Once Mr C provided up to date copies in April 2021, his 
deferment application was considered by SLC. I havent seen anything that shows Thesis 
caused delays here. 
Mr Cs application was declined by SLC on the basis that his three monthly income was too 
high. SLC sets out the criteria for deferment and how it calculates someones income. As 
these werent issues Thesis had influence over and it didnt assess Mr Cs deferment 
application I havent found evidence that shows it made a mistake or treated him unfairly. 
Mr C has told us he found Thesis staff to be difficult to deal with and unhelpful. Ive looked at 
Thesis contact with Mr C. Thesis has provide call recordings for some of its conversations 
with Mr C. During these conversations it was clear Mr C was frustrated at the way his 
deferment application had been handled, but I didnt think the call handlers were rude or 
unprofessional. I thought they tried to assist Mr C and provide information about his student 
loan account. 
Thesis has also pointed out Mr C called SLC to discuss his student loan. But Thesis and 
SLC are different organisations. That means I cant consider any issues Mr C experienced 
with SLC against Thesis. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but as Im satisfied Thesis dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman