DRN-3967473
The complaint
Mr J complains that Goji Financial Services Limited (Goji) mis-sold him his investment in 
the Blackmore Bond Innovative Finance Individual Savings Account (the Blackmore Bond).
Mr J is being represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
However, for ease of reference, my decision will refer to Mr J only.
What happened
The Blackmore Bond
In December 2018, Mr J invested around £58,000 into the Blackmore Bond, issued by 
Blackmore Bond Plc (Blackmore).
Goji provided a platform through which companies could appoint it to facilitate the 
administration of the investments and payments. Goji provided its platform services to 
Blackmore with respect to the Blackmore Bond offering.
Goji was responsible for arranging for investors to receive the financial promotional material
prepared by Blackmore and approved by NCM Fund Services (NCM), and for making an
investment into the Blackmore Bond.
As described in the Information Memorandum, Goji entered into an agreement with 
bondholders under which it undertook to perform the following functions:
to treat investors in bonds as its clients
on their behalf to receive payments in respect of the Blackmore Bonds
to make payments, when due, in respect of the Blackmore Bonds to the investor
to facilitate the exercise of their security rights over the assets of Blackmore
The Blackmore Bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting
who it could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for
the potential investor. Gojis online application process took steps to meet the obligations
created by these rules. I have set out details of the application process below and will set out
and consider the relevant rules in my findings.
In October 2019, Blackmore stopped making payments to bondholders and in April 2020 it
went into administration. 
Mr Js investment in the Blackmore Bond
Mr J completed the online application form on 19 November 2018.
Mr J says he had only previously invested in a cash ISA. He says he was attracted to the 
Blackmore Bond due to its high interest rate and understood the insurance in place
meant his money was secure. He says he hoped to achieve retirement income from the
investment and for it to help him afford holidays.
The application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the application process. These show the
application journey that Mr J underwent.
Certification
Mr J completed a self-certification process, which involved him making a declaration that he
was a Restricted Investor.
The appropriateness test
Having completed the certification, Mr J was required to complete an appropriateness test.
This test set out the following multiple-choice questions:
What is a bond?
A savings account that pays interest once a year
An investment where I lend money to a company and earn a return for doing so
If you invest in a Blackmore Bond ISA, is your capital at risk?
No  the Financial Services Compensation Scheme guarantees my investment
Yes  this is an investment which is not covered by the FSCS and my capital is at
Risk
Are interest payments guaranteed?
Yes  Blackmore will guarantee my interest payments
No  The insurance that Blackmore has in place only covers capital repayment and
not interest repayment so interest repayments can not be guaranteed
Are you able to withdraw your money early?
Yes  I can withdraw my money at any time
No  I am committed for the length of the investment term I selected
Should you put all of your investment money into a Blackmore ISA?
Yes  I should put all the money I have available to invest into a Blackmore ISA
No  I should spread my money across a number of investments to diversify risk and
not put a large amount of my capital in any single investment
Is Blackmore guaranteeing your investment?
Yes  Blackmore will underwrite any losses I suffer
No  Blackmore will not guarantee that I will get my money back, although Blackmore 
has put a security scheme in place to provide an element of protection
Having answered these questions, Mr J was provided with an Information Memorandum
which contained several risk warnings regarding the Blackmore Bond.
Mr Js complaint Mr J complained to Goji in March 2021. He said that Goji had negligently promoted
and arranged his investment into the Blackmore Bond. He said the investment was wholly
inappropriate considering it was an unregulated high-risk, single asset, non-standard
product. He also said Goji didnt carry out enough due diligence before making the
investment available and he felt it should refund him the money he had lost.
Goji responded to Mr Js complaint but didnt think it had acted unfairly. In
summary, Goji said the primary source of information regarding the Blackmore Bond was the 
Information Memorandum which wasnt produced by Goji. It said it hadnt provided any 
investment advice and is not liable for any losses incurred by Mr J. Goji said Mr J had 
completed an appropriateness assessment and answered all the questions correctly. 
Consequently, it didnt consider that it had failed in its duty of care to Mr J.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint and concluded it should be upheld. In
summary, they said:
The investment wasnt a straightforward product. There were risk factors which would 
need to be considered for Mr J to understand it, including the inherent risks of 
property developments (delays, budget overruns etc) and the track record of 
Blackmore.
Looking at the appropriateness test Mr J was directed to complete during the 
application, theyd not seen that Goji asked for an appropriate amount of information 
about his knowledge and experience.
The appropriateness test didnt adequately test whether Mr J had the knowledge to 
understand the specific risks associated with the Blackmore Bond  particularly when 
there were limited options for answers and repeated efforts were allowed.
It wasnt sufficient to just test that Mr J understood he could lose money  but how 
and why that may be likely to happen.
Had Gojis process met what was required under the rules, and sufficiently asked Mr 
J about his knowledge and experience, then they considered Goji ought to have 
reasonably concluded Mr J did not have the necessary knowledge and experience to 
invest in the Blackmore Bond.
Mr J had only ever invested in a cash ISA and the investigator had seen no evidence 
to show hed experienced investing in this type of product previously. 
As the bond wasnt appropriate for Mr J, Goji was required to present a warning to Mr 
J and should he have wanted to continue anyway, then Goji ought to have 
considered whether in the circumstances, he should be allowed to go ahead despite 
the warning.
In the test Mr J completed, had an incorrect answer been selected then he was 
prompted to read the risk statement and he could take the test again. This doesnt 
meet what is required under the rules which require a warning to be given that the 
bond wasnt appropriate.
Allowing Mr J to silence the warning by changing an answer reduces the impact this 
warning was intended to provide. This approach also meant there wasnt an 
opportunity for Goji to consider whether Mr J ought to go ahead investing in the bond 
in the circumstances.
If Goji had given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances whether to 
allow Mr J to proceed, having asked for appropriate information about his knowledge 
and experience, it would have been fair and reasonable for Goji to conclude it should 
not have allowed him to proceed.If he had been asked for appropriate information about his knowledge and 
experience this would have shown he may not have been able to fully understand the 
risk associated with the bond, as he had no prior experience with investing.
Having considered whether Goji tested and assessed the appropriateness of the 
bond for Mr J, the investigator didnt think Goji had treated him fairly or acted in his 
best interests. Had Goji acted fairly and reasonably in meeting its regulatory 
obligations around appropriateness, Mr J wouldnt have got beyond this stage and so 
wouldnt have made the investment.
The Information Memorandum for the bond would only be available to Mr J once he 
had properly progressed through the categorisation and appropriateness parts of the 
application. And so, any information within that cant now reasonably be relied on to 
show he was aware of the risks associated with the Blackmore Bond.
Gojis response to the view
Goji didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
The investigator didnt consider that under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
rules there are circumstances in which a firm may be satisfied that the clients 
knowledge alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks involved in a product 
and so it felt it hadnt breached any rules requiring it to assess Mr Js prior  
investment experience.
It provided a letter from the UK Crowdfunding Association to Gojis legal advisors 
which it said evidences guidance provided by the FCA in 2014 which confirms it 
wouldnt be necessary for firms to obtain information about investors prior 
investment experience or education where the firm had gathered information to 
demonstrate that the investor had knowledge of the key risks of the investment. 
Its appropriateness test was devised in consultation with legal advisers specialising 
in the alternative assets sector, who confirmed they are unaware of any firms 
assessing knowledge on such a granular level suggested by the investigator.
The FCA has brought in new rules relating to the format of appropriateness testing, 
however, these standards should not be applied retrospectively.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js complaint concerns what he considers to be a mis-sale of the bond by Goji. Im 
satisfied that this includes Goji applying relevant tests regarding investor categorisation and 
appropriateness. Therefore, I will first set out the relevant considerations when looking at the 
application process Goji conducted before allowing Mr J to invest.
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.In my view the key consideration as to what is fair and reasonable in this case is whether 
Goji met its regulatory obligations when it carried out the acts the complaint is about. I 
consider the following regulatory obligations to be of particular relevance here.
The Principles for Businesses
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 and 7 are relevant here. They provide:
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 7 - Communications with clients - A firm must pay due regard to the information
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and
not misleading.
COBS 4  Communicating with clients, including financial promotions
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2 - Fair, clear and not misleading communications, which I
also consider to be relevant here:
COBS 4.2.1R said:
(1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear
and not misleading.
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10. I have set out below
what I consider to be the relevant rules, in the form they existed at the time.
COBS 4.7 - Direct offer financial promotions
COBS 4.7.7R said:
(1) Unless permitted by COBS 4.7.8 R, a firm must not communicate or approve a
direct- offer financial promotion relating to a non-readily realisable security [...] to or
for communication to a retail client without the conditions in (2) and (3) being
satisfied.
(2) The first condition is that the retail client recipient of the direct-offer financial
promotion is one of the following:
(a) certified as a high net worth investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(b) certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.9 R;
(c) self-certified as a sophisticated investor in accordance with COBS 
4.7.9R;
(d) certified as a restricted investor in accordance with COBS 4.7.10 R.
(3) The second condition is that firm itself or the person who will arrange or deal in
relation to the non-readily realisable security will comply with the rules on
appropriateness (see COBS 10) or equivalent requirements for any application or
order that the person is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, is in response to the
direct offer financial promotion.COBS 10  Appropriateness
At the time COBS 10.1.2 R said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily
realisable security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is
aware, or ought reasonably to be aware, that the application or order is in response
to a direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10.2.1R said:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for
the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has
the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in
relation to the product or service offered or demanded.
COBS 10.2.2R said:
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment
field includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and
extent of the service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged,
including their complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client
is familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
COBS 10.2.6G said:
Depending on the circumstances, a firm may be satisfied that the client's knowledge
alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks involved in a product or service.
Where reasonable, a firm may infer knowledge from experience.
COBS 10.3.1R said:
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm
must warn the client.
COBS 10.3.2R said:
(1) If the client elects not to provide the information to enable the firm to assess
appropriateness, or if he provides insufficient information regarding his knowledge
and experience, the firm must warn the client that such a decision will not allow the
firm to determine whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for him.
COBS 10.3.3G said:If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning
by the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the
circumstances.
Having taken careful account of these relevant considerations, to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances, and given careful consideration to all Goji has said, Im
satisfied the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain my findings below.
The online application process
The starting point is for me to consider the act(s) Goji carried out and decide whether its fair 
and reasonable to find it did something wrong.
There were a number of regulatory obligations which applied to the sale of the Blackmore
Bond. The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it
could be promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for Mr J.
These are the two conditions set out in COBS 4.7.7R which must be satisfied before a
business such as Goji could communicate or approve a direct-offer financial promotion 
relating to a non-readily realisable security, such as the bonds issued by Blackmore. 
The online application took steps toward meeting the rules which set out how a busines must 
satisfy the conditions, which I have set out above. I will consider the steps taken by Goji, 
focusing on the appropriateness test in conducted.
At the outset I think it is again important to emphasise the bond Mr J invested in was not a 
straightforward product. Risk factors associated with the bond included those which the 
investigator explained  the inherent risks of property developments (delays, budget 
overruns etc), as well as the track record of Blackmore. All of these points (and this is not an 
exhaustive list) would need to be considered in order to understand the investment. Its 
important to give these specific risks for context, as it demonstrates that the bond was 
complex, risky and specialist. I dont think it was the investigators intention to say the 
appropriateness test needed to include, necessarily, these specific questions, and neither is
it my intention, as I will provide my findings on the appropriateness test in more detail below.
However, I think its important to note that the rules required Goji to consider the nature and 
extent of the service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, 
including their complexity and the risks involved and so the complexity of the bonds and the 
risks associated with them was relevant considerations when appropriateness was being 
tested.
In the market for corporate bonds listed on the main exchanges, institutions  ratings
agencies  carry out analysis work to assess the risk associated with a bond and express a
view (a rating), and investment managers often carry out further credit analysis before
deciding to invest in a bond. Here there were no such aids to a consumers understanding of
the product. There was also a liquidity risk. The bond was not listed on a recognised
exchange, and so could not be readily sold.
As the bond was complex, risky and specialist, the bond fell into a category of investment on
which the FCA puts restrictions as to who it could be promoted. The purpose of the rules is
consumer protection  to ensure risky investments are not promoted to those who may not
fully understand their risks. The importance of Goji fully meeting its regulatory obligations 
here was therefore high. Its responsibility was significant. And the steps it took to meet its 
regulatory obligations need to be considered with that in mind.
Appropriateness testThe second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R required BG Ltd to comply with the rules on
appropriateness, set out in COBS 10 and quoted in the relevant considerations section
above.
The rules at the time (COBS 10.2.1R) required Goji, to ask Mr J to provide information 
regarding his knowledge and experience  and for this information to be relevant to the 
product offered (the first limb of the rule). The rules required that information to then be 
assessed, to determine whether Mr J did have the necessary experience and knowledge in 
order to understand the risks involved (the second limb of the rule).
As set out above, COBS 10.2.2 R required Goji, when considering what information to ask 
for, to consider the nature of the service provided, the type of product (including its 
complexity and risks) and for it to include, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client
is familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client
Having reviewed the appropriateness test Mr J was directed to complete during the
application, Im not persuaded Goji asked for an appropriate amount of information about Mr 
Js knowledge and experience, as required by COBS 10.2.1R and COBS 10.2.2 R.
The appropriateness test, as set out above, asked seven questions which tested Mr Js
knowledge. However, nothing was asked about Mr Js experience, despite it being required
by the rules (COBS 10.2.1R).
Goji refers to COBS 10.2.6G which says there may be circumstances in which a firm may be 
satisfied that the client's knowledge alone is sufficient for him to understand the risks 
involved in a product or service. 
I do not think these were such circumstances  not least because Goji did not ask for an 
appropriate amount of information about Mr Js knowledge. Mr Js answers only suggest that 
he understood what a bond was, that his capital was at risk, interest payments werent 
guaranteed and that he was unable to withdraw his investment early. 
The guidance in any event does not supplant the rules and in my view it is clearly meant to 
apply where the client has been asked about both knowledge and experience, as the rules 
require, and the information obtained shows knowledge is high and experience is low. It 
does not say a business can ask only about knowledge when conducting an appropriateness 
test. 
Goji also refers to a letter from the UK Crowdfunding Association, setting out recollections of 
verbal guidance provided by the FCA at meetings in 2014. Goji says the letter confirms that 
the understanding, following that guidance given by the FCA, was that, Where investors are 
required to expressly acknowledge the key risks and features of investing through an 
appropriateness test and a 100% pass rate was required under that test, it was understood 
that those would be circumstances in which clients would be put in possession of sufficient 
knowledge to understand those risks without having to show prior investment experience.
However, no changes to the rules were made and the FCAs Policy Statement PS14/04 was 
clear the existing rules would apply. I note, for example, the statement confirms, at 4.24, that 
firms are required to assess whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risk involved. In relation to the crowdfunding coming under its regulation 
the FCAs proposal (which was adopted), summarised at 4.6, was:
where no advice was provided, that all firms (MiFID and non-MiFID) must check that clients 
have the knowledge and experience needed to understand the risks involved before being 
invited to respond to an offer
I have therefore seen insufficient evidence to show Goji could reasonably have concluded it 
did not have to follow the rules or that the test it used was consistent with the rules. In any 
event  and notwithstanding what I say above about COBS 10.2.1R and 10.2.6G - as Goji 
did not ask for sufficient information about Mr Js knowledge it was not in a position to 
assess whether his knowledge alone was sufficient and therefore proceed on that basis. 
I understand Goji suggests the FCA has provided guidance on its expectations around
appropriateness since Mr J made his investment in 2018, and the regulatory environment
has changed since then. To be clear, my findings are based on the rules that existed at the
time he invested.
I also understand Goji says Mr J didnt fail to answer any of the questions incorrectly and this 
demonstrates that he did understand the investment. However, I do not agree. As Ive 
mentioned above, his answers were limited and in my opinion, the test falls a long way short 
of adequately testing whether he had the knowledge to understand the risk associated with 
the bonds  particularly in circumstances where the multiple-choice options were limited to 
two. The risks, as I set out earlier, were complex and multifactorial. It was not, for example, a 
question of whether Mr J simply understood money could be lost  but whether he was able 
to understand how likely that might be and what factors might lead to it happening.
As the first limb of COBS 10.2.1R was not met, Goji was unable to carry out the assessment 
required under the second limb. Goji should have been confident, from the information it 
asked for, that it was able to assess if Mr J had the necessary experience and knowledge in 
order to understand the risks involved with investment in the bond. But it was not in a 
position to make such an assessment, based on the information it obtained.
I also acknowledge Gojis point about the argument the investigator made about the
insufficient testing of knowledge of capital being at risk. I also appreciate Goji says Mr J has 
told this service that he didnt understand that his capital was at risk, despite declaring that 
he was aware of this in the appropriateness test. Whilst I accept that taking Mr Js 
appropriate test answer in isolation would suggest he knew his capital would be at risk,
Ive also considered, as mentioned above, that the question didnt sufficiently test his
understanding of how likely it would be that he could lose his capital and/or what factors
might lead to it happening.
Im persuaded that, had the process been consistent with what the rules required and Mr J
had been asked for appropriate information about his knowledge and experience, the only
reasonable conclusion Goji could have reached, having assessed this, was that Mr J did not 
have the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved with the 
bond. Mr Js investment experience was limited to investing in a cash ISA and I have seen 
no evidence to show he had anything other than a very basic knowledge of investments.
If Goji assessed that the bond was not appropriate, COBS 10.3.1R said a warning must be 
given and the guidance at COBS 10.3.3G said a business could consider whether, in the 
circumstances, to go ahead with the transaction if the client wished to proceed, despite the 
warning. Ive explained why the test fell a long way short of adequately testing Mr Js 
knowledge and experience, and had it adequately tested this, Goji would have come to the 
conclusion that the bond wasnt appropriate for Mr J.A clear, emphatic statement would have left Mr J in no doubt the bond was not an 
appropriate investment for him. And he ought to have been privy to such a warning, had an
appropriateness test consistent with the requirements of the rules been conducted.
Furthermore, had Goji given itself the opportunity to consider in the circumstances whether 
to go ahead with the transaction if Mr J wished to proceed, having asked for appropriate 
information about Mr Js knowledge and experience, it would have been fair and reasonable 
for Goji to conclude it should not allow Mr J to proceed. Had Mr J been asked for appropriate 
information about his knowledge and experience this would have shown he may not have 
the capacity to fully understand the risk associated with the bond. As mentioned, I have seen 
no evidence to show Mr J had anything other than a very basic knowledge of investments. In 
these circumstances, it would not have been fair and reasonable for Goji to conclude it 
should proceed if Mr J wanted to, despite a warning (which, as noted, was not in any event 
given).
All in all, Im satisfied Goji did not act fairly and reasonably when assessing appropriateness. 
By assessing appropriateness in the way it did, it was not treating Mr J fairly or acting in his 
best interests. If it had acted fairly and reasonably to meet the relevant regulatory obligations 
when assessing appropriateness, Mr J would not have got beyond this stage.
As the second condition set out in COBS 4.7.7R could not be met and things could not have
proceeded beyond this, Mr J wouldnt have received the Information Memorandum for the
bond. And so, any information within that cannot now reasonably be relied on to show he
was aware of the risks associated with the bond. In any event Ive also not seen sufficient
evidence to show Mr J had the capacity to fully understand the Information Memorandum 
a lengthy and complex document  given his limited knowledge and experience. As such,
Goji cant fairly rely on any possible reading of this as a means to correct the failings set
out above.
Is it fair to ask Goji to compensate Mr J?
Goji says Mr J expressly acknowledged on numerous occasions that by proceeding with
the investment he was at risk of losing the capital he invested, and this is evidence Mr J
would have proceeded to invest in the bond regardless of what it did. However, I do not think
it would be fair to say Mr J should not be compensated on this basis.
Firstly, he should not have been able to proceed, had Goji acted fairly and reasonably to 
meet its regulatory obligations. I acknowledge that other parties may have caused or 
contributed to Mr Js eventual loss but, notwithstanding that, Im satisfied it is fair to ask Goji 
to compensate Mr J as the appropriateness test was a critical stage, for which Goji was 
responsible for.
Secondly, for the reasons I have given, I am not in any event persuaded Mr J did proceed
with a full understanding of the risks associated with the bond. I am not persuaded Mr J
looked at the full detail of the acknowledgements he gave, given what Mr J has said about 
his understanding of the bond and his lack of investment experience. I am not persuaded Mr
J had the capacity to fully understand the risks associated with the bond  and he was in
this position because Goji did not act fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations 
at the outset. Im therefore satisfied it is fair to ask Goji to compensate Mr J for the loss he 
has suffered.
Putting things rightFair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr J
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bond. I
think Mr J would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr
J's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Goji do?
To compensate Mr J fairly, Goji must:
Compare the performance of Mr J's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay interest as set out below
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr J in a clear and simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Blackmore 
BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decisionGoji Financial 
Services Limited 
must pay
the
compensation
within 28 days of
the date on
which we tell it
Mr J accepts my
final decision. If it
pays later than
this it must also
pay interest on
the
compensation
from the date of
my final decision
to the date of
payment at 8% a
year simple.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr J agrees to Goji taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Goji to take ownership,
then it may request an undertaking from Mr J that he repays to Goji any amount he mayreceive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Goji should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. Any additional sum paid
into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation from the point in time when
it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Goji totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested,
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Im unaware if Goji charge fees for operating the IFISA account. However, the wrapper
only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the wrapper to be closed and further
fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive set out
above how this might be achieved by Goji taking over the investment.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Goji are
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that Goji
pay Mr J an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees but illiquid
from fixed rate bonds investment settlement applicable (calculated using the fee in the
previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for
the wrapper to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr J wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr J's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr J would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital.
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, clicking
on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit rates - Fixed
rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively,
just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website:
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Goji Financial Services Limited should pay Mr J 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman