DRN-2920625
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance, (PPI), policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out personal loans with Nationwide in 1998 and 2002. On each occasion 
they also took out a PPI policy. The policies only covered the payments on the loans, not 
any mortgage that Mr and Mrs H may have had with Nationwide. But the loans were 
secured on their home.
Although the loans were in their joint names, the policies only covered Mr H. The premiums 
on the policies were paid monthly and were about £10 a month. And, following a successful 
claim, the PPI would have paid their monthly loan repayments of about £130, until Mr H was 
able to work again. These payments would have been made for up to 12 months if Mr H 
had been off work because of involuntary unemployment. And the payments would have 
been made for up to 24 months, had Mr H been off work because of accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. As 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance 
on our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Because of the time that has passed, Nationwide can no longer be sure how the first 
policy was sold. So, to be fair to Mr and Mrs H, it and Ive assumed that it was during a 
meeting. Nationwide thinks it is most likely that the second policy was sold over the 
phone. But my decision would be the same had it also been sold face-to-face.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, but Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs H say that they were told that their loan applications wouldnt be 
considered without PPI. But, on balance, I think that Mr and Mrs H knew that the 
PPI was optional and that they chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen their 
two signed loan agreements. I can see that these refer to the amount of the 
relevant initial PPI monthly payment as the Optional Credit Insurance - (the 
italics are mine). And Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H would have had time to 
review both agreements before signing them.
Ive also seen the form to be completed by Nationwides representative for sales 
in 1998 for secured loans. This requires the representative to give brief details of 
the PPI. Below this are two boxes  one to be marked if the insurance is 
requested, and the other if it is being declined. On balance I find this makes it 
clear that the representative was required to ask the applicant if they wanted to 
take the PPI or not. 
Ive also seen the sales script which was to be used in 2003 for branch and 
telephone sales. Although this is for use in the year after the second sale, I think 
it is reasonable to assume that a similar script would have been in use for this 
sale. I say this because the industry guidelines for such sales were the same for 
both years. This script required the representative to provide costs for the loan 
with and without PPI. I find that there would be no reason to require the latter if 
the applicant was required to take out PPI in any event.
Without further details of what was actually said during the two sales, I dont think 
that I can reasonably rely solely on Mr and Mrs Hs recollection of conversations 
which took place about 20 years ago. And I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Nationwides representative didnt follow the correct procedures. 
Nationwide didnt advise Mr and Mrs H that they should take out the policies. This 
meant that it didnt have to take reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable 
for them. But Nationwide did have to give Mr and Mrs H clear, fair and not-
misleading information so that they could themselves make an informed decision 
whether they wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of their 
circumstances at the time.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But as on balance I think they chose to take it out 
- it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, Mr H was eligible for 
the PPI and it looks like it was affordable. However, its possible the policies 
wouldnt have covered Mr H if he hadnt been able to work because of a 
condition, (the condition) for which he has told us he had previously had surgery 
and treatment. I dont know what Nationwide told Mr H about this possible 
exclusion. But, as the medical procedures took place several years before the 
loans were taken out, and because of the nature of the condition that required 
these, I dont think that Mr and Mrs H would have felt the condition would have 
been a likely reason he might have had to take time off work again. So I dont 
think that clearer information about this possible exclusion would have put off Mr 
and Mrs H from taking the insurance.I havent seen anything else to suggest that Mr H was affected by any of the other 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  such as those relating to people on 
short-term employment contracts. And the policies would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay to which Mr H may have been entitled. So I find they 
would have been useful for Mr and Mrs H if something went wrong. So I dont 
think better information generally about the PPI would have put them off taking 
out the cover, particularly because of the serious consequences which could 
have arisen had Mr and Mrs H been unable to make their repayments on their 
loans which were secured on their home.
This means that Mr and Mrs H havent lost out because of anything that may have been 
wrong with Nationwide sales process. So theres nothing I require Nationwide to put right.
As Ive said, Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have told us. Including that:
Mrs H could have helped with the loan repayments had Mr H not been working. But 
Nationwide has told us that Mrs Hs income had already been taken into account 
when agreeing to their joint loans. 
They had had a mortgage with Nationwide without PPI cover for more than 20 years 
before taking out the loans. But I dont find that would have been a relevant 
consideration for them when they took out their loans at a much later date.
So this and Mr and Mrs Hs other points dont change my decision.
For completeness I would point out that, when Mr and Mrs H repaid the loans early, they 
were entitled to a refund of part of the PPI they had paid. Nationwide failed to do that at 
the time but, when it received their complaint about the purported mis-sales, it did then 
make a payment to them for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision I that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman