DRN-2226908
The complaint 
Mrs S and Mr S have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account, called an Additions account. 
Barclays charged Mrs S and Mr S a monthly fee for the Additions account and provided 
several potential benefits in return. Mrs S and Mr S think that Barclays should refund them 
all the fees they paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S have been customers of Barclays for a long time. Barclays does not have 
full details of exactly when they opened their first account and precisely when it sold them 
the Additions account. But from the information it does hold, it has told us that their account 
history is probably as follows:
Mrs S and Mr S first opened an account, which didnt have a fee, during the early 
1990s, probably 1991.
By 1998 (possibly as early as 1996), Barclays sold them the Additions account, 
which replaced their fee-free account and for which it charged a monthly fee.
Mrs S and Mr S switched back to a fee-free account in November 2004.
Mrs S and Mr S closed the account on November 2009.
Mrs S and Mr S seem to have accepted this account history and I have taken it to be correct.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint and didnt think 
that Barclays had mis-sold them the Additions account. Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has come to 
me to make a final decision. 
(I understand that during most of the time which is relevant to this complaint, Mrs S and Mr S 
held the account in their joint names; but they have since separated. Almost all our 
correspondence has been with Mr S alone. But Mrs S has given her consent for us to look 
into the case and this is a joint complaint. So, I have referred to them jointly throughout this 
decision). 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs S and Mr Ss case. 
Ive looked into everything that Mrs S and Mr S and Barclays have told us or sent us about 
the complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Barclays sold the Additions account to Mrs S and Mr S over twenty years ago, and not 
surprisingly neither party has much written evidence from the time. So, I cant tell for certain 
what happened. Instead, I have considered the information that I do have to decide what is 
most likely to have occurred. 
Barclays, along with other banks, can sell packaged bank accounts in two ways. It can do so 
without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an 
advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach Barclays used for Mrs S and Mr S, as 
well as giving them a choice, I would have expected it to tell them clearly and fairly about the 
costs and benefits of the Additions account; and in an advised sale, I would also have 
expected it to check that they had a potential need for the benefits which the account could 
provide before giving its advice. 
Barclays has told us that in the 1990s it usually sold the Additions account during face-to 
face discussions at its branches, and that it did so on an information-only basis. On our 
questionnaire, Mrs S and Mr S have said that they cant remember whether Barclays gave 
them any advice, and as I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays changed its usual 
practice for them, I have considered this case as an information-only sale. 
Firstly, as Mrs S and Mr S had held one of Barclays fee-free accounts for several years 
before it sold them the Additions account, Im confident that they knew about such accounts. 
And as Barclays wasnt withdrawing them, I think its highly likely that it gave them a choice 
to keep their fee-free account or to buy the Additions account. 
Mrs S and Mr S have asked if there is any signed paperwork from the time to show that they 
agreed to change their account. I have not seen any, which may be because Barclays no 
longer has it, or may be because Mrs S and Mr S gave their permission verbally or may be 
for some other reason. But after so much time has passed, I do not think that the absence of 
any such signed paper work means that Barclays denied Mrs S and Mr S a choice or 
changed their account without their permission. 
During the late 1990s, one of the main benefits that Barclays provided to customers with 
Additions accounts was to waive usage charges for overdrafts that it usually applied to 
customers with fee-free accounts. And it didnt charge Additions account holders any interest 
on the first £100 of any overdraft, whereas it did charge most customers with fee-free 
accounts interest on this first £100. (Some of the other potential benefits included a 
purchase protection scheme, use of a Will-writing service and a legal helpline).
Depending on exactly how customers used an account, they could save more on the cost of 
an overdraft with an Additions account than they paid in monthly fees. As Barclays was 
trying to sell the Additions account to Mrs S and Mr S, I find it highly likely that it told them 
about this during the discussion, along with the other potential benefits. I also think its highly 
likely that Barclays told Mrs S and Mr S about the fees for the account, as I doubt it could 
credibly have presented the benefits as free. And the fees would appear on Mrs S and Mr 
Ss bank statements, so it would have been hard for Barclays to hide them.
Throughout our investigation into this case, both parties have mentioned several times that 
Mrs S and Mr S overdrew their account quite frequently. Barclays has said that its likely that 
they bought the account mainly because of the potential saving they could make on their 
overdraft. Mrs S and Mr S have questioned Barclays view about this. They have told us that 
when they first raised their complaint they were curious as to why (they) would have 
upgraded to (the Additions) account. Obviously, I cant answer this question with certainty, 
but I think Barclays explanation is reasonable and I am content to accept it.More recently, Mrs S and Mr S have examined some of their bank statements from the late 
1990s and have worked out that over a roughly three-year period, starting in late January 
1998, they paid more in fees then they saved on their overdraft; so, they werent one of 
those customers who saved money by having the Additions account. I havent seen the 
details of their calculation, but I am willing to accept it as accurate. However, it doesnt follow 
automatically that Barclays mis-sold them the Additions account.
Clearly, at the point of sale, neither Barclays nor Mrs S and Mr S could know for sure exactly 
how they would go on to use any overdraft. And in an information-only sale, Barclays 
responsibility was only to tell Mrs S and Mr S about the benefits of the account, which in this 
case obviously included explaining how the potential overdraft savings would work. For the 
reasons I have already given, I think Barclay probably did this and so met its obligations to 
them. (For completeness, I would like to add that even if Barclays had advised Mrs S and Mr 
S to buy the Additions account, I would mainly be interested in whether its advice was 
reasonable at the time Barclays gave it. I would not have been be overly concerned with 
evidence that only emerged with the benefit of hindsight). 
So, in summary, there is very little original evidence in this case to show for sure how 
Barclays sold the Additions account to Mrs S and Mr S, but from what Ive seen I think it 
probably gave them a choice and told them about the accounts costs and benefits. I dont 
think Barclays mis-sold the Additions account to Mrs S and Mr S. 
Mrs S and Mr S have asked directly if there is 100% certainty about what happened. As I 
mentioned, I cant be 100% sure, but I have based my decision on what seems most likely to 
have taken place. 
I have one last point to make. In the course of our investigation into this complaint, I have 
noticed that Mrs S and Mr S have mentioned concerns about other charges which Barclays 
made on their account in addition to the monthly account fees; and that they have raised 
these separately with Barclays. They have said that these charges may have led to financial 
difficulty, and that Barclays incorrectly included them in some of its correspondence about 
this complaint. I dont know a great deal about these charges or about Barclays response to 
them. I have not considered them in this decision and Mrs S and Mr S are free to complain 
about them further if they wish. However, I cant give them any advice about this, or 
speculate on the outcome of any complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs S and Mr Ss complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman