DRN-2012395
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a 
mortgage. The sale took place during a meeting. The initial premiums for this insurance were 
about £26 a month. And following a successful claim it would have paid out over £350 a 
month for up to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. As Mr A 
disagreed the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, but Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. I explain why below.
Mr A says that he was not aware that he signed up for the policy. And that he didnt want or 
need it. However, I think that Mr A knew that the MPPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because Ive seen:
The loan assessment carried out by Lloyds during the meeting - In the section dealing 
with insurance, I can see that the boxes referring to MPPI and a type of contents 
insurance have been ticked. Whereas those relating to building insurance and another 
type of contents insurance havent. Im aware that the form was almost certainly 
completed by Lloyds representative, but am satisfied that this shows that there was a 
discussion about MPPI;
.
Mr As signed mortgage application - I can see that there is a tick in the box requesting 
MPPI, whereas the equally prominent box, to be ticked to decline this insurance, has 
been left blank. Again, Im aware that this form was almost certainly completed by 
Lloyds representative. But I think it is reasonable to assume that Mr A would have had 
the opportunity to read the form through before signing it;
Mr As separate signed MPPI application form  there is nothing on this to suggest that 
the insurance is required to be taken out;
Mr As mortgage - This doesnt contain any condition requiring Mr A to have MPPI.
From the above, I conclude that Mr A knew that the MPPI was a separate product from the 
mortgage, optional, and that he chose to take it. Because of the time that has passed, I can 
understand why Mr A no longer remembers this
Lloyds recommended to Mr A that he take out the policy. This means that it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for him. Lloyds also had to give Mr A clear, 
fair and not-misleading information so that he could make an informed decision whether he 
wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of his circumstances at the time. 
I find that the policy was suitable for Mr A. I say this because knowing what I do about his 
circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
Mr A was eligible for the policy;
Mr A wasnt caught by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations - such as those 
affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
The policy was reasonably priced by reference both to the benefits that it offered
and to other policies available in the market at the time. And I havent seen anything to
make me think that Mr A couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, had he later thought
that he couldnt afford the MPPI, or no longer wanted it, he could have cancelled it at any
time without further cost;
Mr A was entitled to sick pay from his employment, and he had some savings. But, 
following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out in addition to his other 
means leaving those available to meet his other expenses while he was unable to work. 
These insurance payments would have been made for up 12 months, which is a longer 
period than was represented by his other means referred to above. So I find that the 
policy could have been of use to him. I say this particularly bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Mr A been unable to make his mortgage 
repayments which were secured on his home;
Its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr A everything that it ought about the policy during the 
sales meeting. But as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for him, I think that he would 
still have taken it had Lloyds given him clearer information. This means that Mr A hasnt lost 
out because of anything that may have been wrong with Lloyds sales process. So theres 
nothing I require Lloyds to put right.My final decision
For the reasons set out above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman