DRN-2146105
The complaint
Mr G says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him when it 
provided loans he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
This complaint is about three loans that Mr Lender provided to Mr G between March 2013 
and June 2016. 
Heres a table setting out details of these loans: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 25/03/2013 28/06/2013 1 £450.00 £607.50
2 15/07/2013 16/12/2013 1 £500.00 £650.00
Break in lending
3 26/06/2016 25/01/2017 6 £250.00 £99.66
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. He mainly says that he had multiple payday loans at the same time and 
Mr Lender shouldve done proper checks before approving these loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr G could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. 
loan 1 
I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to lend Mr G loan 1. This was his first loan with Mr Lender 
 and so I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information Mr G provided. This 
suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr G didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to any underlying money problems.
I think Mr Lender shouldve enquired further into Mr Gs financial circumstances by asking 
him what he expected to spend each month. But I havent seen enough information overall 
to make me think Mr Lender shouldve declined this loan application even if Mr Lender had 
asked Mr G for this information before it agreed to lend to him.
So I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr G took out the second loan just a couple of weeks after paying loan 1  and he borrowed 
a slightly bigger loan this time. 
I think Mr Lender couldve gone further in the checks it did before agreeing to provide loan 2 
to Mr G. I think Mr Lender shouldve checked his expenditure and asked him about any other 
credit commitments. 
Mr G has sent us some credit file information and I can see that when he took out loan 2 he 
also had a couple of other short term loans outstanding with other lenders of this type of high 
cost credit. I think Mr Lender shouldve been aware of these when deciding whether the loan 
it was planning to provide was likely to be affordable for Mr G. 
But looking at the information Ive seen on Mr Gs credit file, I dont think Ive seen enough to 
be able to say that knowing this shouldve made Mr Lender think this loan wasnt affordable 
for Mr G when he took it out. 
This means that although Mr Lender failed to make allowance for what Mr G was already 
paying towards other loans when working out what he could afford to borrow this makes no 
overall difference to the outcome. 
So I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Gs complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Mr G didnt ask Mr Lender for any more loans during the period December 2013  June 
2016. That gap in lending seems long enough to me for Mr Lender reasonably to think that 
Mr G mightve put his finances in order during this period. This meant that when his 
borrowing started again, and Mr G applied for loan 3, he was effectively starting over. So it 
was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess his lending 
requests accordingly.
When Mr G took out this loan, Mr Lender was reasonably entitled to rely on the information 
Mr G provided. The figures hed declared, and the information Mr Lender had collected, 
seem to support Mr Lenders lending decision. Looking at what hed told Mr Lender about his 
monthly income and his expenses this suggested that Mr G was well able to afford this borrowing. It was early in the new lending relationship and so I think the checks were 
enough for Mr Lender to agree to lend. 
So Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint about loan 3
Im sorry that Mr G found it hard to manage the repayments on his borrowing. And I accept 
that in reality Mr Gs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information 
he provided, or the other information Mr Lender obtained. 
But, in order to uphold this complaint, I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong 
 and that Mr G lost out as a result of this. 
In this case, I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr G is worse off because 
Mr Lender didnt do everything it shouldve done. I say this because even if Mr Lender had 
asked all the questions I think it ought to have done, I cant fairly say that it wouldve found 
out enough information to make Mr Lender realise that these loans werent likely to be 
affordable for Mr G  and so Mr Lender shouldve decided not to lend to him. 
I appreciate that my decision not to uphold his complaint about any of these loans will likely 
come as a disappointment to Mr G. I hope my explanations help him understand why Ive 
reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman