DRN-4207610
The complaint
Mr H complains, via a professional representative, about the advice he received to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
The advice that is the subject of this complaint was given by a business, which Ill refer to as 
Firm B. Aspects of Firm Bs business were then taken over by another business, which Ill 
call Firm I. Capital Professional Limited, trading as Ascot Lloyd, (CPL) later acquired the 
business and assets of Firm I through an acquisition agreement. This complaint was made 
against CPL, and it has provided an answer to Mr H and our service.
What happened
Mr H held benefits in a DB scheme. Mr H says the company hed worked for, through which 
the DB pension was accrued, had made a number of people redundant. And he had some 
concerns about the security of his pension. Hed seen an advert for Firm B indicating it could 
assist with pension transfers, which also promoted potentially being able to release large 
sums of tax-free cash. So, he says he approached Firm B for advice about his pension.
Mr H hasnt retained many documents from the time of the sale, which I think is 
understandable. CPL has said that it is also unable to provide any documentation from the 
time, such as a fact find or suitability report, which it has indicated is due to the 
circumstances under which it acquired Firm I.
As a result, weve asked Mr H about his circumstances at the time of taking advice. Hes 
said he was 56 in good health, married with no other financial dependents. He was 
employed, having joined his new employer in 2000, and was a member of their pension 
scheme. He said he had no savings or investments, and the DB scheme represented the 
majority of his retirement provisions and, as a result, he had a low attitude to risk. And Ive 
seen nothing that would lead me to doubt any of this.
Ive seen evidence that, in July 2002, Firm B wrote to the DB scheme asking for details of 
the benefits Mr H was entitled to under the scheme. With it receiving a reply a couple of 
weeks later. 
The information from the DB scheme said Mr H had accrued benefits between April 1982 
and October 2000. It said the normal retirement date of the scheme was age 63 and the total 
transfer value was £55,400.52. The covering letter noted that the last actuarial valuation of 
the scheme had shown its assets were less than its liabilities. And as a result, Mr Hs 
transfer value had been reduced by £3,747.05. But it said, based on the funding plan the 
scheme had set out it was estimated the full transfer value would be available by April 2007.
In September 2002, Firm B sent completed documentation, on Mr Hs behalf, to enable the 
transfer of his pension benefits to a personal pension.
Mr Hs representative has said the transfer value was split. Some went to a personal 
pension, which Mr H drew benefits from in 2006. The remainder went into an immediate 
vesting section 32 plan, from which Mr H took tax-free cash and received an annuity. And 
this was done on the advice of Firm B.
Mr H referred a complaint about the advice, against Firm B, to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 2021. The FSCS informed Mr H that it understood CPL 
was responsible for answering the complaint so referred him to it.
Mr H complained to CPL. He said the advice hed been given to transfer his benefits was 
unsuitable. He said he hadnt been made aware of the disadvantages of transferring, 
particularly the guaranteed benefits he was giving up, and the option of releasing a lump 
sum had been promoted instead.
CPL said, as it didnt hold any records, it could not establish whether or not Mr H had been 
provided with advice by Firm B. And it said, as the complaint was made more than six years 
after the event complained about, it was likely made too late, as it could be more than three 
years from when Mr H ought to have known he had reason to complain. So, CPL said, for 
those reasons, it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. CPL said, as part of the acquisition agreement, 
liabilities were generally excluded. And it said a different business was the successor of 
Firm B and was primarily responsible for the complaints. But it also noted that there had 
been an agreement under which CPL agreed some liability for a limited time, and that had 
not ceased so it had agreed to deal with certain outstanding complaints. It reiterated though 
that, largely because of this set up, it had very limited records from the point of sale.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He thought the complaint was one we could 
consider, as he hadnt seen any evidence that suggested Mr H shouldve known he had 
cause to complain sooner than he did.
The Investigator acknowledged that information was limited, although noted that the 
business which CPL had said it thought was ultimately responsible had suggested paper 
records may still be available, but that CPL had made no attempt to obtain or retrieve these. 
In any event, based on the limited information, the Investigator thought the complaint should 
be upheld and that CPL should compensate Mr H for any loss the transfer had caused him. 
He noted that the regulators position was that the starting assumption for a transfer from a 
DB scheme is that it is unsuitable unless it can be clearly shown that the transfer was in the 
customers best interests. But the Investigator said he hadnt seen anything to suggest that a 
transfer was in Mr Hs interests or was necessary.
CPL did not accept the Investigators opinion. It repeated that it believed a different business 
was primarily responsible for this complaint. Despite this though, it again set out that it had 
agreed with the business it considered responsible that CPL would respond and make 
relevant payments up to an agreed level.
Turning to the Investigators opinion, CPL said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was 
not the regulator at the time and so what the Investigator had said about its starting 
assumption should be disregarded. It also said it felt the complaint was speculative and it 
wasnt clear that Firm B had provided advice to Mr H. In any event though it said it thought 
the advice was suitable, saying that the employer through which the benefits were accrued 
was a loss-making company and went into liquidation in 2018, with the DB scheme later 
being taken over by the Pension Protection Fund (PPF). 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CPL suggested in its final response that Mr Hs complaint mightve been made too late. Our 
Investigator agreed that the complaint had been raised more than six years after the event 
complained about  the transfer and advice around this from 2002. But he didnt think it had 
been raised more than three years after Mr H ought to have been aware of having cause to 
complain. He noted that CPL hadnt provided any evidence to support when it thought Mr H 
shouldve been aware of having cause to complain. And, as Mr H had taken his pension 
benefits under the personal pension before the normal retirement date of the DB scheme, 
the Investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that Mr H couldve made a 
like for like comparison or realised he was potentially worse off. Mr H had explained that he 
hadnt been aware of any potential problem until he spoke to former colleagues in 2021, who 
had remained members of the DB scheme. The Investigator thought this explanation was 
reasonable and so, as Mr H had complained within three years of that point, he thought 
Mr Hs complaint had been made in time. 
CPL provided no further comments in relation to whether the complaint had been made in 
time, in response to the Investigators opinion. So, it appears to have potentially accepted 
the Investigators findings on this. For the avoidance of doubt however, I agree with our 
Investigators opinion that the complaint has been made in time, for largely the same 
reasons. I cant reasonably conclude, based on the very limited information available, that 
Mr H was in a suitably informed position such that he ought reasonably to have been aware 
he had cause to complain about the advice he received more than three years before he did.
CPL has also said it hasnt been able to establish if Firm B provided advice, as evidence 
from the time is limited. I note though, as our Investigator indicated in their opinion letter, that 
the business which CPL says it believes is primarily responsible for this complaint has 
separately told our service that it holds paper records of some sale documentation from the 
former Firm B, but CPL has made no effort to retrieve this. It isnt clear however if that 
includes information in relation to Mr H.
Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide, on balance, whats most likely 
to have happened. Mr H has been consistent in his testimony that he was advised by Firm B. 
And, as Ive mentioned, Ive seen evidence that Firm B wrote to the DB scheme to gather 
information about Mr Hs existing benefit entitlement. And that Firm B, specifically its 
pension transfer department, submitted application forms and other required 
documentation, on behalf of Mr H, to enable the transfer to be concluded. Based on this, and 
in the lack of any evidence to the contrary, I think its likely, on balance, that Firm B did 
advise Mr H in relation to the transfer of his pension.
Again, CPL has said another business was the successor to Firm B and is primarily 
responsible for the complaint, while also saying the terms of the acquisition agreement 
relating to its purchase of Firm Is business and assets excluded liabilities generally. At the 
same time though it has also said that the acquisition did include CPL having a contingent 
liability for some complaints. 
CPL has given some additional commentary in respect of the contingent liability  saying this 
was time limited, although later extended for a further period, CPL understood it would no 
longer be liable if Firm B was dissolved, which has now happened, but on further 
consideration, this wasnt expressly provided for so it has agreed to continue dealing with 
outstanding complaints, in line with the acquisition arrangement.Our service hasnt been given a copy of an acquisition agreement that sets out the definitive 
position which CPL has referred to. So, it hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that it 
isnt liable to answer this complaint. And Mr H received a letter from the FSCS indicating that 
it understood that CPL was liable for this complaint. But ultimately, while CPL has been keen 
to stress it doesnt consider itself ultimately responsible, it has also been clear that it has 
agreed to deal with this complaint  indeed it provided a final response. It has also said it 
agreed with the business that it believes is ultimately responsible that CPL would continue to 
deal with outstanding complaints and make any relevant payments (subject to its 
understanding of that agreement). 
So, while it has given a lot of information around the context of why it is answering the 
complaint, it does seem to have been accepted that CPL should answer the complaint  as it 
has done to this point. So, for ease of reading the decision, Ill now largely just refer to CPL.
As a result, Ive gone on to consider the advice given to Mr H. When doing so, Ive taken into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes 
of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based 
on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
CPL has said that the starting assumption that a transfer from a DB scheme is unsuitable, 
should be disregarded, as the FCA was not the regulator at the point advice was given here. 
CPL is correct that it was the predecessor to the FCA, the Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) that was the regulator at the time of the advice. But its rules, applicable at the time of 
the advice here, in addition to requiring an adviser to take into account the circumstances, 
objectives and risk profile of the investor and make a suitable recommendation, also 
included the same presumption of unsuitability in relation to DB transfers.
COB 5.3.29G said;
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
So, I dont agree with CPL that this should be disregarded as it formed part of the regulations 
that were in place at the time of the advice.
And based on the evidence available here, I dont think it has been demonstrated that a 
transfer was in Mr Hs best interests.
The information provided by the DB scheme to CPL said that, at the point Mr H left the DB 
scheme in October 2000, his deferred pension was £5,657.24. This would continue to 
escalate until retirement and when in payment, with the normal retirement date being in 
2009, when Mr H would be 63. And the information also indicates he could take a maximum 
tax-free lump sum under the DB scheme of £22,617.67.
Alternatively, Mr H could accept a transfer value of £55,400.52, which included a deduction, 
to move his benefits elsewhere.
Mr H has said he was advised to transfer and use some of the funds, approximately 55%, to immediate benefits, including a lump sum, with the rest put into a personal pension and 
invested, making it subject to market risks.
It was a requirement at the time that the adviser carry out a transfer value analysis report, 
including calculating how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). A copy of that report 
is not available  even though the FSA rules at the time said information relating to a 
pension transfer should be retained indefinitely. Nor is a copy of the suitability report 
available  which Id have expected to reference this figure. So, it isnt clear how much the 
new pension arrangements wouldve needed to grow by in order to exceed the benefits the 
DB scheme wouldve provided at retirement  as there would be little point in giving up the 
guarantees available only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the DB 
scheme.
As a result, it cant be demonstrated that a transfer was likely to improve the pension 
benefits Mr H would receive. 
Taking immediate benefits in respect of some of the pension, reduced the risk. But a 
significant portion of Mr Hs pension was still subject to market risk. Mr H has said that the 
DB scheme represented the majority of his pension provisions, so was important to him. And 
based on what hes said about his circumstances at the time  which I havent seen any 
evidence to disprove  he doesnt seem to have had much capacity for losses to this 
pension, as it appears he didnt have any savings or other assets. Hes also said his attitude 
to risk was low  which I think is supported by the reason he says he first contacted CPL, 
because he had concerns about the security of this pension. And it hasnt been 
demonstrated that taking on this risk, was in Mr Hs best interests.
Mr H has said that he was working at the time he was advised to transfer. And it hasnt been 
shown that he had a need for a further income at that time. So, I cant reasonably conclude 
that it was necessary for him to begin drawing benefits immediately or that doing so was in 
his best interests. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr H had a genuine need to 
access his pension benefits before the normal retirement age of the DB scheme or that he 
had a strong need for flexibility in retirement.
Mr H was married and the DB scheme wouldve provided a guaranteed spouses income in 
the event Mr H predeceased his wife. I think this wouldve been a useful and valuable benefit 
to Mr H and I havent seen anything to support that transferring to achieve alternative death 
benefits was in his interest.
Mr H has said that he approached CPL for advice, because he had concerns about the 
security of his pension as there had been redundancies at the time. It is worth noting that, at 
the time of the advice, the PPF had not been established. So, there was not the same safety 
net for members of DB schemes that later came into effect. And the limited available 
information from the time does indicate that the DB scheme was underfunded as the letter 
from the DB scheme to CPL confirmed the schemes assets were less than its liabilities. And 
because of this, the transfer value was reduced.
The reduction in the transfer value was though only 6.3%. It isnt clear if that is equivalent to 
the margin by which the DB scheme was underfunded. But the scheme information at the 
time indicated that there was a funding plan in place and the scheme expected the shortfall 
to be addressed in under five years.
CPLs role wasnt just to facilitate a transfer because Mr H mayve entered into discussions 
with it thinking that it was a good idea. It was to provide unbiased, expert advice about what 
was in Mr Hs best interests. To do that Id have expected it to research the position of the DB scheme at the time, assess this and establish if Mr H had any reason to genuinely be 
concerned about the security of his pension and address those concerns. But again, I 
havent seen any evidence of such an assessment being carried out.
CPL has said it believes the advice was appropriate because the employer later went into 
liquidation and the DB scheme was taken over by the PPF. But it is worth noting that the 
employer did not fall into administration until 2019. And the DB scheme was not taken over 
by the PPF until 2020. Given the length of time after the advice that these two things took 
place this indicates, in my view, that the situation in 2002 was likely not as serious as Mr H 
feared. And I dont think there is enough evidence to support that the DB scheme was in a 
position such that Mr H should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his 
pension or that transferring because of this was in his best interests. 
Summary
I dont doubt that Mr H mayve been concerned about the security of his pension when he 
first asked for advice or that he mightve thought, because of this, a transfer was potentially a 
good idea. But CPL wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. 
The advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed, having regard for the 
regulators position that its starting point shouldve been that a transfer from a DB scheme 
will not be suitable, and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, based on the limited information available, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to clearly demonstrate that a transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. He doesnt 
seem to have had a genuine need to transfer and there isnt any evidence that supports he 
was likely to improve his pension benefits by doing so. 
So, I think CPL shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against CPL's 
advice. And Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted 
on transferring out of the DB scheme, against CPLs advice. I say this because Mr H was an 
inexperienced investor, was likely in my view to have a low attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. I dont doubt he was concerned about 
the security of his pension. But if CPL, a professional adviser, whose expertise he had 
sought, had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. 
And I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
The DB scheme did move to the PPF in 2020, but I think Mr Hs pension benefits wouldve 
been in payment under the scheme by that point. So, he wouldve moved with the scheme 
and been covered by the PPF from that point onwards, based on its applicable rules.
In light of the above, I think CPL should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
CPL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, I understand that Mr H retired at age 60. So, compensation should be based on 
him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CPL should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts CPLs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, CPL may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Capital Professional 
Limited, trading as Ascot Lloyd, to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Capital Professional Limited, trading as Ascot Lloyd, pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Capital Professional 
Limited, trading as Ascot Lloyd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman