DRN-3737989
The complaint
Ms J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC enabled her ex-husband to access information about 
her personal accounts.
What happened
Ms J says that Lloyds had linked her and her ex-husbands accounts even though they had 
no connection and shed never given her authority for her personal information to be shared. 
She says the situation was compounded as she had recently lost her sister and was also 
holding funds from her bank accounts in an executor account, to which her ex-husband also 
had access. Ms J adds that, when she complained, Lloyds did not even investigate for six 
weeks, leaving her funds vulnerable for eight further weeks. She says that she found a 
member of staff to be extremely rude and unprofessional during one of her initial calls.
Lloyds apologised for its mistake and its poor customer service and paid Ms J £1,000 for the 
issues she experienced. It said that as a telephone user for the business account, personal 
account details were linked in error. Lloyds confirmed the link had now been removed.
Ms J did not feel that £1,000 was sufficient given the severity of the data breach and the 
effect it had on her.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although he was in no 
doubt about the severity of the data breach, he explained that the compensation offered by 
Lloyds was around the figure this service would usually suggest. He also gave Ms J the 
contact details for the Information Commissioners Office which is the body responsible for 
data protection legislation.
Ms J responded to say, in summary, that she feels violated by Lloyds and £1,000 is not 
enough compensation for the eight weeks that her details remained accessible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Lloyds made a mistake here, and there was a serious data breach, 
but Im satisfied that this has now been put right. So I now need to consider what 
compensation would be appropriate for the breach itself, any consequences, the customer 
service, and the time it took Lloyds to remedy the situation.
Lloyds has accepted Ms Js personal accounts were wrongly linked to the business account 
and I do not underestimate the stress this caused to Ms J for the eight-week period she 
knew her ex-husband had access to this information. I acknowledge this could have had 
very serious consequences, especially given the sensitivity surrounding the money from her 
late sisters estate.
However, this service can only make an award based on the actual consequences of a 
businesss error and, in this case, I havent seen any evidence that Ms Js ex-husband did 
anything with the information other than tell Ms J about it. I also cant see that Ms J has 
suffered any financial detriment as a result of the breach.
That said, I can only imagine the worry the situation caused to Ms J, especially given the 
time Lloyds took to consider her complaint and then to establish what had happened. I have 
taken all this into account in the context of the compensation guidelines on our website:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience
They say An award ofup to around £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake has 
caused considerable distress, upset and worryTypically, the impact lasts over many weeks 
or months
Based on the above, and my review of all the evidence, I find that the £1,000 offered by 
Lloyds is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman