DRN-2813271
The complaint
Mr F and X complain about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) decision 
to cancel a car insurance policy. They want Advantage to remove the cancelled marker 
from the policy.   
What happened
Mr F used an online comparison site to purchase a car insurance policy from Advantage  
and he received confirmation to say it would start in October. A few days before it was due to 
start, Advantage notified Mr F they had checked his policy and found he had carried out a 
number of quotes using different details. And because of this, they had cancelled his policy. 
Mr F complained about Advantages decision to cancel his policy. He explained that X 
entered all the details for the policy with Mr F present. He says they made some corrections 
but didnt think this would be a problem. Mr F said it was an innocent mistake so he asked 
Advantage to remove the cancelled policy marker in his name. Advantage responded and 
said they know mistakes can be made when entering information online but changing details 
a number of times makes it hard for them to work out the risk of the policy and how much it 
should cost. They said when Mr F bought the policy, he entered different occupation details 
for several drivers, two different addresses, different years for how long a licence had been 
held and the amount of years of no claims discount. Advantage said, because they cant 
prove which information is correct, they decided to cancel the policy. They said the policy 
cancellation will still need to be declared.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F and X. Mr F said X had mislaid his driving licence 
so they guessed his licence obtained date and accept this wasnt entered accurately. They 
said all other information was accurate. Our investigator thought Advantage hadnt acted 
unfairly in cancelling the insurance. Mr F and X disagreed so the matter has come to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr F and X will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy says, when applying for insurance, he has a duty 
to take reasonable care to answer all questions as fully and as accurately as possible 
otherwise there could be serious consequences. The policy sets out Mr Fs legal obligations 
which includes the action Advantage can take if answers arent accurate.     
Generally, insurers are allowed to set the premium that they wish to charge for accepting a 
certain risk. When calculating insurance premiums insurers will take a number of factors into 
consideration; for example - the consumers age or occupation. They will also consider 
details about the thing that theyre insuring, such as the model of car. All these factors will 
affect the price of a consumers policy so its important the information a customer provides 
is correct. An insurer will decide what factors to take into account and how much weight to 
put on each of them. 
The information which Mr F provides, and upon which the comprehensive cover policy is 
offered, notes two years no claims discount and his driving licence obtained date as 16 
September 2018. Mr Fs occupation is described as independent means. It notes Xs 
occupation and that he has held a driving licence for over 20 years. There are two further 
family members listed as named drivers, both holding a driving licence for over 20 years. 
Their occupations are also listed.    
I can see Mr F obtained 28 quotes in the two weeks leading up to him purchasing the policy. 
So, Ive looked carefully at the information provided by Mr F and X for these quotes to see 
whether there are significant differences. I can see quotes have been obtained for fully 
comprehensive cover and third-party fire and theft. I dont think this is unreasonable as 
customers will understandably want to know how the price of a premium varies based on the 
type of cover. 
There are however differences in the date given for when Mr F obtained his licence. I can 
see from Mr Fs driving licence he obtained this on a date in July 2018. The quotes show 
various dates recorded between July to September 2018. I can see Mr F says the initial date 
was his provisional licence date and the second date was his full licence date. I take this on 
board but this doesnt account for why there are many more different dates used to obtain 
quotes. In addition to this, there are a number of dates recorded for Xs licence date and for 
the other two family members. In some cases the differences are significant. For example, 
for one quote the date of Xs licence is given as September 1985. Then a day later, for 
another quote, the date is given as September 2000. I think this is significant because the 
latter date wouldnt have shown on the policy as holding a licence for over 20 years. 
Similarly, with the other two family members there are a range of dates used to record the 
licence obtained dates. There are dates used between 1982 to 2000. 
There are also different occupations recorded for Mr F, X and another family member. And, 
the no claims discount recorded for the quotes range from one to four years.          
I can see Mr F says X entered the details on the comparison site and then both he and X 
made changes so X could show him how the premium is affected by different details. He 
says neither he or X realised there would be this much scrutiny on details entered before an 
actual policy is purchased. He says no details on the purchased policy are incorrect apart 
from Xs driving licence start date.  
Advantage are understandably concerned to ensure that they dont take on customers who 
they believe have manipulated their systems with incorrect information to obtain a cheaper 
quote. I accept that mistakes can occur when entering information online but I agree with 
Advantages point that it can make it difficult for an insurer to assess risk and calculate the 
cost when details are changed so frequently and over a relatively short period of time. So, in 
view of this, and the potential significance the changes would have, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Advantage to rely on the relevant terms and conditions to cancel the policy. 
I believe the information which has been entered for different quotes relate to risk factors 
likely to impact a premium.    
I understand the impact this will have on Mr F when looking for insurance in the future. I can 
see Advantage have offered a solution. They have said, subject to Mr F proving that all 
information provided in the quote used to purchase the policy is accurate, they will provide 
Mr F with written confirmation that he wont need to notify future insurers of the cancellation. 
I can see the date Mr F recorded as being his licence obtained date for this policy doesnt match the date noted on his driving licence. So, while I think Advantages proposal would 
have been fair and reasonable had all information proved to be accurate, I cant ask 
Advantage to provide this in these circumstances.   
I can see X has asked whether the cancellation marker can be applied to him as he was 
responsible for obtaining the quotes. I do understand Xs wish to help Mr F particularly as he 
accepts responsibility for generating a number of quotes and for the inaccurate information 
about his own driving licence. I cant however ask Advantage to place the cancellation 
marker against X as the policy has been taken out in Mr Fs name.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman