DRN-3426929
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about repairs completed by their motor insurer Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited following vandalism of their car (involving petrol being poured 
into its interior).
What happened
In April 2021 a vandal smashed the passenger window and poured petrol into 
Mr and Mrs Cs car. Admiral took it for repair, during which there was some unavoidable 
delay whilst waiting for parts. Mr and Mrs C had a courtesy car, but it wasnt the same as 
their car and they were pleased to be told, about two months after the incident, that their car 
was ready to be returned to them. However, when they got it back, they noticed the repairs 
were incomplete,  and the car still smelled heavily of petrol. They got a test kit and showed 
Admiral there were high levels of contaminants in the car. 
After a delay of nearly two months, Admiral then agreed to take the car back and paid 
Mr and Mrs C £50 for the upset caused. The car was then with Admirals repairer until 
November 2021. Admiral provided them with a larger car over this period than theyd been 
given before  but Mr and Mrs C still felt it wasnt like their car.
By November 2021 Admirals independent assessor had checked the car. And based on his 
report that the car was safe, Admiral returned it to Mr and Mrs C. They asked how it had 
been ascertained that the car was safe. They expected it to have been tested in a similar 
way that they had tested it before. Admiral sent them a copy of the assessors report  which 
explained he had sat in the car for a while and couldnt smell petrol. They were disappointed 
and worried. They complained again to Admiral. In December 2021 Admiral said it accepted 
the assessors report wasnt sufficient and it would take the car back for further testing. 
Mr and Mrs C had already complained to us by this time and they updated our investigator 
with this latest development.  Our investigator reviewed their complaint, taking into account 
everything that had happened to the point of Admirals contact in December 2021. She felt 
that Admiral should pay Mr and Mrs C a further £300 compensation. She also felt that when 
Admiral takes the car back again, it should use a different repairer.
Admiral agreed to that. But Mr and Mrs C were disappointed.
Mr and Mrs C said they were pleased the investigator agreed with the fact that Admiral had 
acted unfairly and caused unreasonable delays to their claim. Along with the 
recommendation for a different repairer to be used. But they said they were disappointed 
that our investigator felt that all of the upset and significant worry caused by Admirals 
actions only warranted compensation totalling £350. They said they felt around £3,000 would 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances  it would reflect what theyd paid on their 
finance agreement for their car during that period when they hadnt been able to use it. 
When our investigator wasnt minded to change their view, the complaint was passed for an 
ombudsmans consideration. 
I felt that Admiral had failed Mr and Mrs C twice, and that a total of £750 was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the upset caused to them to the point Admiral said, in 
December, it would take the car back for further testing. I further felt that the car should go to 
a different garage and the tests should be completed by someone suitably qualified and 
experienced to ensure the car is free from contaminants and safe, with Mr and Mrs C being 
provided with a car similar to theirs, for the duration their car is away. So I issued a 
provisional decision to explain my views on everything to both parties.
Mr and Mrs C said they were pleased to see their safety had been carefully considered, and 
they were willing to accept the increased compensation amount. Admiral said it disagreed 
with the compensation because it had been offering to further test the car since 
December 2021. It said it was around this time that the investigator suggested £300 
compensation was due and it agreed that was a fair figure  the three months of delay since 
then had occurred because Mr and Mrs C hadnt responded to its offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I dont intend to set out lots of detail in my findings here. Essentially this comes down to the 
fact that Admiral failed to complete repair properly in the first instance. And then when it 
agreed to review that, it returned the car to them for a second time without, as it has 
admitted, ensuring adequate checks were done.  
When Admiral took the car back the first time, it was away for around four months. Admiral 
did provide an alternate car for Mr and Mrs C during this time  but theyve explained this 
wasnt ideally suited to their needs. And if Admiral had done repairs properly in the first place 
they wouldnt have been having to make-do with an alternate car at this time, theyd have 
been using their own car. Admirals failure denied them the use and enjoyment of their own 
car. And Im not surprised that their car being away for so many months was otherwise 
worrying for them. 
Admirals second major failing then was to return the car back to them without having 
ensured proper checks were done. And at the point of return Mr and Mrs C even asked for 
assurances as they wanted to know, not unreasonably, that everything was now safe. 
Admirals answer at this point seems to have been to return the car. Which I understand left 
Mr and Mrs C feeling they had no choice but to trust Admiral was right. I can understand that 
it was then extremely worrying and distressing for them to get Admirals communication 
about a month later which said the tests completed had not been in-depth enough. I see 
Admiral tried to caveat that with an assurance that this didnt mean the tests were wrong and 
it stood by the fact the car was safe. But I dont think that caveat is particularly persuasive  
because if the tests were not in-depth enough there is no way to know if the assessors best 
guess was correct. And I can see no good reason why more scientific tests werent 
completed. Especially given the car had already been returned once and evidence had been 
submitted showing there were unusually high levels of contaminants present (albeit that was 
several months previously). I totally understand Mr and Mrs Cs frustration in this respect.
As I noted above, I dont think £350 compensation is sufficient in the circumstances to make 
up for all of the upset Admiral caused. I think Admiral should pay Mr and Mrs C a total of 
£750.I know Mr and Mrs C feel compensation should be tracked more against the payments 
theyve been making on their finance agreement (around £3,000 in the period in question). 
But we dont award compensation in that way. That's because each finance payment 
Mr and Mrs C made was to pay a contribution towards the value of the car. And each of 
those repayments went towards securing the car as their personal asset. So I don't think its 
reasonable to expect Admiral to contribute towards those costs, as thats not something their 
policy covers. And, Mr and Mrs C had a courtesy car. So while they would have lost the 
enjoyment of their own car they were still mobile. I'm satisfied that my award of £750 reflects 
their significant worry and inconvenience suffered over several months, and is in line with 
other awards made by this service in similar circumstances.
My final note is on repairs. Admiral has agreed to take the car back and our investigator said 
further checks and repairs should be done by a different garage. I agree that is reasonable  
the policy allows for it and, even if it didnt, Id be minded to require it in this instance. Id add 
though that a different expert should also be used to check the car before returning it, ideally 
one suitably qualified and experienced in testing for contaminants.
In response to my findings, Admiral has argued that £750 compensation is too much 
because it has been looking to put this matter right since December 2021. I agree that it did 
make some overtures to Mr and Mrs C in December 2021 in this respect. But if Admiral 
reviews my findings it will see that I did not award compensation due to upset caused since 
December 2021. Therefore, its argument in this respect has not changed my view as 
provisionally stated. 
And Mr and Mrs C have accepted my award. As such I remain of the view that for the upset 
Admiral put them through in the months before December 2021, because it failed to properly 
and satisfactorily complete the repair of their car in a timely manner, a total of £750 
compensation is fairly and reasonably due. My award of other redress hasnt changed either.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Collect Mr and Mrs Cs car for further testing, having provided them with a car similar to 
theirs for the duration of time their car will be away.
To take their car to a garage, not the one used before on this claim, for checks and 
testing. A suitably qualified and experienced assessor should be appointed to complete 
final tests on the car to ensure it is free from contaminants and safe.
Pay Mr and Mrs C a further £700 compensation (making the total paid £750).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman