DRN-1991899
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLC not reducing the interest rate on his 
existing loan while offering lower rates through its promotional literature.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H entered into a loan agreement with Barclays in December 2017 and in doing so 
agreed to its terms and conditions. The loan agreement clearly set out the loans 
term and interest rate and the monthly payment amounts. So, while I note Mr Hs 
comments about the interest rate, as this information was provided on the loan 
agreement which he signed, I find he had the information he needed to make an 
informed decision about whether to enter the loan.
Mr H has noted that other loan products offered by Barclays that have lower rates of 
interest and has challenged why the interest rate on his loan was set so high. While I 
understand why Mr H has raised his concerns, Barclays has explained that the 
interest rate is set based on an individual assessment of each customer. I have 
nothing to show that Mr H was treated unfairly when the loan was set up and, as set 
out above, as the information about the cost of the loan was made clear, I do not find 
I can say the loan was mis-sold.
Mr H has said he was told that he should contact Barclays after a year or two to 
discuss reducing the interest rate. Unfortunately, I have nothing to show that he was 
told that a reduction in rate would be available or that the terms could be changed 
during the term of the agreement. So, while I appreciate Mr Hs comments about 
being told to get in touch with Barclays I do not have enough evidence to say he was 
mis-sold the original loan based on a possible future reduction in the interest rate.
Mr H has said that Barclays didnt respond to his request but instead sent him 
marketing information trying to get him to borrow more. I can understand that this 
would have been upsetting for Mr H. I can see Mr H raised his concerns in a letter 
dated 29 April 2019 and Barclays responded on 22 May saying it was investigating 
his complaint. A final response letter was then sent dated 1 June 2019. I understand 
Mr H didnt receive this, but I find it more likely than not that it was sent. Following 
further correspondence, Barclays responded by referring to the June 2019 letter. 
Based on the evidence I have seen, I find that Barclays did respond to Mr Hs 
concerns.
I can understand why Mr H is upset that his request for a reduction in the rate of 
interest on his loan wasnt agreed. However, as I cannot say that Barclays was 
required to do this I do not find that I can uphold this complaint. I understand the 
comments about being offered more money at a lower interest rate, but it isnt my 
role to tell Barclays what products it can offer and when. Instead I assess each case 
to see if the consumer has been treated fairly. As Mr H was provided with the 
information he needed to decide whether to agree to the original loan and there is 
nothing to show that he was promised a change to the interest rate, I cannot say he 
has been treated unfairly.
I understand that Mr Hs marketing preferences have now been changed and so he 
will not be receiving the marketing letters that had previously been sent.
While I understand that this issue has been upsetting for Mr H, for the reasons set out 
above, I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman