DRN-4315906
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complain that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus wont refund an unauthorised payment taken from their account. Ms F, 
Mr F and Mr C, the directors of W, bring this complaint on Ws behalf.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I take it Cashplus accepts the disputed payment was unauthorised. So, in line with 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), it can only hold W liable if the 
directors failed, with intent or gross negligence, to keep Ws personalised security 
credentials safe or comply with the terms of the account  and that failure allowed the 
unauthorised payment to be made.
Here, Ms F did share a One Time Passcode (OTP) with a scam caller. It seems the 
scammer already had Ws card details, although there is no allegation those were 
shared by the directors. The scammer used Ws card details to initiate the payment  
and was able to complete it using the OTP Ms F was tricked into sharing.
In the circumstances of the scam, Im not persuaded that, by sharing the OTP, Ms F 
failed with intent or gross negligence to keep Ws security credentials safe. 
The scam unfolded as follows: Ms F received a call from someone claiming to be 
from Cashplus, who knew the account balance as well as the card details. I can see 
why Ms F believed this was genuinely Cashplus, based on the information they 
knew. This appears to have been a targeted scam against Cashplus customers.
The caller claimed there had been suspicious transactions on the account. This was 
a social engineering tactic, to create a sense of pressure and urgency that persuaded 
Ms F she had to act quickly, and follow the callers instructions, to protect the 
account. 
The caller primed Ms F to expect a text from Cashplus, containing an OTP, which 
they told her she needed to provide to them so they could prevent fraudulent 
payments from being taken. She has explained she didnt read the rest of the 
message, she just passed over the code at the beginning of the message as 
directed.
In sharing this code, Ms F didnt intentionally fail to keep the account safe  as she 
thought she was sharing information with Ws bank to protect the account. 
the circumstances, I can see how Ms F trusted the call was genuinely from Cashplus 
and why  in the heat of the moment  she therefore read out the code to them, as 
instructed, without reading the entire message (which in any event doesnt seem to 
have contained clear warnings about not sharing the code). 
Ms F didnt seriously disregard an obvious risk  rather, she didnt foresee the risk, 
having been tricked by a clever and targeted scam. And, for the reasons given, I 
dont think she acted significantly carelessly in the circumstances either. So I dont 
think her failing was one of gross negligence.
I therefore agree with the investigator that, in line with the PSRs, Cashplus is liable 
for this payment and should therefore refund W, with interest  to compensate them 
for the loss of use of the funds. 
W accept this and are no longer seeking any further compensation or action from 
Cashplus to resolve the complaint (such as compensation for non-financial loss or 
indemnity against any costs incurred raising the complaint). Nor do I think anything 
else is fairly due. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ws complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions trading 
as Cashplus must:
Pay W the total of the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or refunded 
 I understand this to be £3,559.40; and
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the payment to the 
date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Advanced Payment Solutions must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it W accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman