DRN-3644896
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr B was provided with a Capital One credit card in May 2002 with a credit limit of £200. In 
2005 the credit limit was increased to £600. Mr B says he had a lot of debt at the time and 
that had adequate checks been carried out Capital One would have realised the lending was 
unaffordable.
Capital One said that when making a decision to lend it assesses information gathered 
through the application process and the credit reference agencies. It noted the time that had 
passed meant certain information was no longer available. 
Our investigator considered the information provided by Mr B and Capital One and he didnt 
think he could say the lending was irresponsible. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that there was no evidence that 
Capital One carried out the checks it should have before his credit limit was increased.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mr B applied for a Capital One credit card in May 2002. His application stated he was 
employed with an annual gross income of £20,000. Given the time that has passed since the 
credit card was approved there is limited information available. However, in the application 
form Mr B noted he also had store cards and a debit/switch card but didnt tick boxes for any 
other cards. This doesnt suggest that the was indebted on several cards at the time and 
without further evidence, I do not find I can say this would raise concerns that meant 
additional checks were required. Based on Mr Bs declared income, I do not find the credit 
limit of £200 was unreasonable. 
Without further evidence to show that Capital One should have been reasonably aware that 
Mr B was struggling financially at the time, I do not find I can say that Capital One was wrong 
to provide Mr B with a credit card with a £200 credit limit.
Mr Bs credit limit was increased to £600 in 2005. Before a credit limit is applied, we would 
expect the lender to carry out proportionate checks to ensure the additional lending was 
affordable. Unfortunately, given the time that has passed there is limited information 
available. I have considered the information provided which is Mr Bs statements from the 
time leading up to the limit increase. These show that after being provided with the Capital 
One credit card, Mr B didnt start to use it immediately. The card was provided in May 2002 
and Mr B started to use it in September 2002. Over the next couple of years, he managed 
his account reasonably well. There were a few occasions when the account went over its 
limit, but this was then corrected, and Mr B was making payments above the minimum 
required amount. In the six months leading up to the credit limit increase, Mr B continued to 
manage his account well. His balance was kept well within the credit limit and he was 
making payments above the required minimum. Therefore, I do not find that Mr Bs account 
management showed signs of financial difficulties. 
I note Mr Bs comments that evidence hasnt been provided to show the credit checks 
undertaken at the time of the limit increase. Businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely and given the passage of time I do not find it unreasonable that Capital One 
hasnt been able to provide these. Based on the information that has been provided I do not 
find I have evidence to suggest that the increased limit would have been unaffordable to 
Mr B. 
In 2009, a payment plan was agreed with Capital One. Interest and charges were frozen and 
Capital One explained that a default notice would be issued. Given the status of Mr Bs 
account and the information provided to Capital One about his circumstances, I do not find I 
can say that Capital One did anything wrong in the action it took.  
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman