DRN-2798977
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as MINI Financial Services (BMWFS).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Mr P took receipt of the car in February 2020 and in April 2020 he wrote to BMWFS and 
explained hed noticed a deep scratch in the speedometer and swirls in the paintwork. He 
said, because of work commitments and the sales advisor not being available at the same 
time as me I struggled to take the car in and he went on to explain that, regardless, he had 
sent the dealership a video of the faults. He explained that due to the coronavirus restrictions 
the dealership had now closed, and he asked for BMWFSs help.
In July 2020 BMWFS told him they believed the dealership had rectified the faults. But that 
wasnt the case and it wasnt until March 2021, more than a year after Mr P had taken 
delivery of the car that they offered to repair it for him.
The relevant legislation allows a business an opportunity to repair a fault that is present at 
the point of supply and I think thats what Mr P was initially asking the business to do. But 
the relevant legislation says that repair should be carried out in a reasonable period of time.
I dont think thats the case here as it took BMWFS more than a year to offer a repair and 
whilst I understand the pandemic restrictions would have caused some delay I think these 
delays were excessive.
I think BMWFS should therefore now allow Mr P to reject the car.
Putting things right
BMWFS should collect the car at no cost to Mr P and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr P has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
This was a new car and I think the issues Mr P has experienced with it will have impacted on 
his enjoyment of the car. To compensate Mr P for that BMWFS should refund 10% of the 
monthly instalments hes paid to his agreement, but its fair for them to retain the rest of the 
payments as Mr P has had reasonable use of the car.
Mr P has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to wait a long time for a resolution 
to his complaint and has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could 
have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances BMWFS should pay him £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
end the agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr P;
refund any deposit Mr P has paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
refund 10% of all finance instalments paid in respect of loss of enjoyment and add 
8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr P £150 to compensate him for the trouble and upset hes experienced; 
remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the
agreement.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman