DRN-2023108
The complaint 
Mr P complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMWFS), wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He asks to reject the car.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr P entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a 
used car. The car was six and half years old and had a mileage of 47,000.
In May 2019 a drivetrain error message displayed on the dash. Mr P says he was concerned 
this meant the car had a serious issue and so contacted BMWFS. He took the car to a 
manufacturer approved garage for diagnostics. The tests revealed codes for the clutch being 
heavily damaged. However, BMWFS said this was insufficient evidence there was a fault 
with the car that had been present at the point of sale, and asked Mr P to take the car to a 
main dealer garage for further investigation.
In July 2019 Mr P arranged for the car to be taken to a garage that was agreed by BMWFS. 
This garage advised that the car would need to be stripped down so that it could be 
ascertained whether there was a fault with the car, or whether the clutch issue was related to 
the way it had been driven.  Mr P forwarded the diagnostics from this garage to BMWFS so 
that it could discuss the issue with the service department at the garage. Mr P says BMWFS 
didnt make contact with the garage. 
However, in August 2019, BWMFS did speak with the garage who said it couldnt confirm 
whether the issue would have been present at the point of sale. Due to the cause of the 
problem still not being settled an independent engineer was appointed to inspect the car. 
This was set for September 2019. 
This inspection was cancelled around two weeks later as, by then, the car was no longer in a 
drivable condition. A local manufacturer approved garage was then instructed to inspect the 
car and it was towed there for investigation in October 2019. This garage said it need to 
remove the gearbox to properly investigate. BMWFS approved the car being stripped down.
In November 2019 this garage contacted BMWFS and said it had found a broken oil seal 
which had caused an oil leak that had damaged the clutch. The garage said this fault 
wouldnt be expected in a car of this age and mileage. BMWFS recorded in its notes that it 
believed this issue was linked to the fault originally raised by Mr P.
BMWFS called Mr P and offered to cover 50% of the cost of the repair as the fault had been 
diagnosed nine months after the inception of the agreement. Mr P disagreed with the 
decision made by BMWFS and complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He said he was 
satisfied that Mr P raised the problem he was having with the car with BMWFS straight 
away, but the onus was then placed on him to provide evidence even though this was only 
three months after the point of sale. The fault with the clutch was raised by the diagnostics 
carried out in June and July 2019. The final garage to investigate the car confirmed that the 
clutch had been damaged by the oil leaking from the damaged oil seal and that this wouldnt 
be expected in a car of that age and mileage. 
Our investigator said it was unfair to penalise Mr P because the fault had taken time to be 
identified. He said he was satisfied, on the evidence, that the car hadnt been of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale and it was reasonable for Mr P to now reject it and the agreement 
to be cancelled.
Our investigator recommended that it would be fair for Mr P to be reimbursed any monthly 
payments made by him under the agreement since September 2019 as the car couldnt be 
driven from that point. He also recommended that BMWFS should pay Mr P £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to deal with the faulty 
car.
BMWFS accepted that the request for Mr P to cover 50% of the repair costs had been. 
unreasonable. It asked to have an opportunity to repair the car free of charge to Mr P. It also 
agreed to reimburse the monthly payments made since September 2019 and pay the £250 
compensation. Mr P said he was happy to agree to this offer.
Following further contact it was agreed that BMWFS would reimburse Mr Ps car insurance 
costs from September 2019 once proof of that cost had been received. Mr P says it was also 
agreed that the cost of hiring a car for 7 days would also be repaid to him.
However, the car hasnt been repaired as there are outstanding storage fees of over £6,000 
that the garage says have accrued. BMWFS says the garage has declined to carry out any 
repairs until these fees have been cleared. BMWFS says that the storage fees are between 
Mr P and the garage and that Mr P abandoned the vehicle at the garage. It says that under 
the agreement it was Mr Ps responsibility to keep control of the car.
Mr P says he would now like to reject the car as it hasnt been repaired. He says the storage 
fees arent his responsibility, as he took the car to that garage at the request of BMWFS. He 
says the car isnt in any condition to be driven.
As the parties havent been able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  there  is an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the 
quality  of the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  person  
would  consider  satisfactory  taking  into account  any description  of the goods,  price  
and all other  relevant  circumstances.
It also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  and 
condition  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and finish,  
freedom  from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the quality  
of the goods.
Here  I think  it isnt disputed that the car Mr P had acquired either had or was 
developing a fault at the point of sale and so wasnt of satisfactory quality. The damage to the clutch was the result of a faulty oil seal and the garage instructed to 
undertake this final investigation said that in its opinion this seal shouldnt have 
leaked when looking at the age and mileage of the car.
So, the issue for me to decide is in respect of who should be liable for the storage 
fees, and whether it would now be reasonable for Mr P to now reject the car. These 
storage fees have accrued since the car has been at the garage for investigations 
since September 2019.
I understand from the evidence that Mr P took the car to this third garage at the 
request of BMWFS, so this wasnt a garage hed selected, or insisted on using. The 
car was stripped down with the agreement of BMWFS to allow a full investigation of 
the issues, and it hasnt been in a condition that Mr P could have driven it away for 
many months. I dont, therefore, think its reasonable to say Mr P has abandoned the 
car at the garage, as I think it would be fair to say hes had no real choice about 
where the car was being stored while his complaint has been ongoing. He had only 
done what had been asked of him by BMWFS. I also cant say that he has 
contributed to the delays in getting the car inspected and the fault identified
So, I dont think its fair or reasonable that Mr P is held liable for these storage costs 
which have arisen because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. I 
disagree that these costs are a separate matter between the garage and Mr P. Im 
asking BMWFS to cover these costs.
Mr P says he has lost confidence with the garage over the size of the storage fees 
and is concerned that the car may now be affected by being in a stripped-down 
condition for so many months. He asks to be able to reject it. 
While I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, Im not bound by 
them when I consider whats a fair and reasonable resolution to a complaint. I accept 
that generally a retailer has a right to attempt a repair under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015, however, taking into account these circumstances I think it would now be 
fair for Mr P to reject the car. This car has been looked at by three separate garages 
and several months have passed since the fault was diagnosed. Im not surprised Mr 
P has lost confidence in the car and BMWFS. I think its unreasonable to require him 
to continue to wait while repairs are carried out. He has been unable to make use of 
the car since September 2019.
So, for the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above I think its fair for Mr P to now reject the car and for the 
agreement to be unwound. Im asking BWMFS to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr P.
Cover all storage fees that are payable. 
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund any deposit paid by Mr P together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove an adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ps credit file.Reimburse any monthly payments made under the agreement since September 2019 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Reimburse any insurance payments made for the car after September 2019 together 
with interest at the annual rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement following receipt of proof of payment.
Pay Mr P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to 
deal with the faulty car.
Mr P says there was agreement from BMWFS to pay for car rental charges he incurred in 
November 2019. I think that is a matter between BMWFS and Mr P and as it isnt a cost I 
would require BMWFS to cover. This is because travel costs are a usual and expected 
expenditure and Mr B has been reimbursed for not being able to use the car that he had 
under hire purchase. I wouldnt expect him to benefit from free travel. However, if BMWFS 
has agreed to pay then I wouldnt interfere with that offer.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Im asking BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr P.
Cover all storage fees that are payable. 
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund any deposit paid by Mr P together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Remove an adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ps credit file.
Reimburse any monthly payments made under the agreement since September 2019 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Reimburse any insurance payments made for the car after September 2019 together 
with interest at the annual rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement following receipt of proof of payment.
Pay Mr P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to 
deal with the faulty car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman