DRN-2874267
The complaint
Mr A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), decision
to reject a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(section 75).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and I know that will come as a disappointment to
Barclays, so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr A made a claim through them for
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier (d-c-s)
relationship. So, if I was satisfied that Mr A did not get the service hed paid the salvage
company (Ill call them E) for Id think it fair and reasonable that Barclays refund him.
But for the creditor, Barclays in this case, to have that liability it needs to have a relevant
relationship with the supplier of the goods and here Barclays argues that cant be
demonstrated. They say Mr A hasnt been able to provide an invoice or receipt that shows
that he was a customer of E, the full value of the transaction, or that the merchant Mr A paid
were to supply the goods.
Our investigator agreed with that argument, but I dont.
I dont think there is any evidence here that there was any other business, apart from E,
involved who could have broken the d-c-s chain in this transaction. Mr As bank statement
shows that the money was paid to E and Mr A has provided copies of communication he had
with E where the price of the goods is discussed and where he raises his dissatisfaction with
the quality of the engine he purchased. Im therefore satisfied that Mr A bought the goods
directly from E and that Barclays had the relevant relationship with the supplier of the goods.
For section 75 to be applicable the cash price of the goods must be more than £100 but no
more than £30,000. Mr As bank statement shows that he paid £749.98 for the engine. So, I
think his claim is within the financial limits set by the Act and section 75 is applicable.
Im persuaded there has been a breach of contract here. Mr A appears to have raised issues
with the quality of the second-hand engine very soon after he received it. Ive seen
communications with the dealership to explain that he had received the engine by 11
December 2019, and he raised concerns with E that day when he realised the engine would
need a new pully and timing belt.
I think a reasonable person would expect a second-hand engine not to require any
modification before being fitted and I think its reasonable to suggest that they therefore
wouldnt expect the engine to require a new pulley or timing belt. So, I think there was a
breach of the implied terms of the contract that the engine would be of satisfactory quality.
And I dont think Barclays have therefore been reasonable when rejecting Mr As section 75
claim.
The engine has now been fitted and there would be costs involved in taking it out. So, I dont
think it would be practical, or fair, to ask Barclays to allow Mr A to reject the engine and
return it. I think the fairest resolution would be for Barclays to repay the costs Mr A incurred
getting the mechanic to fit the pulley and timing chain.
The text message Mr A exchanged with his mechanic in December 2019 explained that the
mechanic would charge £180 for that work. It was to be a cash transaction so I dont think it
would be reasonable to expect Mr A to provide a receipt for the work. But I am persuaded
that Barclays should refund the £180 and, as Mr A has been deprived of the money, they
should add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Barclays
Bank UK PLC to refund the £180 Mr A spent having the pulley and timing belt fitted to his
engine. They should add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment by Mr A to
the date they settle this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays agreed with the provisional decision although they didnt necessarily agree with my 
logic. Mr A agreed too but he explained that he thought Barclays should pay him some 
compensation as hed been waiting a long time for a resolution.
Im required to establish whether Barclays resolution of Mr As section 75 claim was 
reasonable and Im not reviewing, nor am I allowed to review, the service that they supplied. 
So, whilst I understand Mr A has been waiting a long time Im afraid I wont be asking 
Barclays to pay any compensation to him.    
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional information that changes my provisional decision 
on this complaint and that provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
refund the £180 Mr A spent having the pulley and timing belt fitted to his engine. They 
should add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment by Mr A to the date they 
settle this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman